ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u1	I open the 24th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Mariusz Gromka, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Senator Jerzy Wcisła as the secretary of the sitting. The list of speakers in the sitting room will be led by Senator Jerzy Wcisła, and in room 217 Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor. Dear Senators, in view of the continuing epidemic threat after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of remote communication in a remote manner. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings have been regulated in Article in a remote manner, as you know. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your senators meeting in the sitting room and in room 217, please sign up for questions and to speak in a discussion with the senators of the Secretaries. I would remind you that in the sitting room you are Senator Jerzy Wisła and Senator Mariusz Gromko, and in Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Senator Rafał Ambrozik. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPad within the Senate building. Do all States in the sitting room and in room 217 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting? I hope so. On the other hand, the Senators taking part in the meeting in a remote way are asked to make sure that the iPads are connected to the power supply and that the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal, under which you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature and the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Once the apparatus has been turned on, I'd like to ask you to cast any vote to confirm your presence. I remind you of the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting, that the opening of the vote, so-called. polling, Webex will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you that you need to press 2 times the pass button or the Submit button after the vote: in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. I'm asking you to give me any vote. Please state the outcome of the vote. 96 senators voted. [[Voting No 1]] And so many senators are currently attending the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its 20th meeting on 15 and 20 April 2021 adopted part of the Senate's amendments: to the Act amending the Social Assistance Act; to the Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws; to the Act amending the laws governing the preparation and implementation of key investments in the field of strategic energy infrastructure. I inform you that the minutes of the twenty-second Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to make available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. The Commission did not draw up a report on point 13, i.e. the Act on the Protection of the Rights of the Buyer of a Apartment or a Family House and on the Developer's Guarantee Fund. This item shall not be included on the agenda approved by the Senate. Following the preparation of the report on the subject, the agenda may be supplemented by this item. I propose that items 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th, 11th, 13th to 19th and 25th draft agenda be considered, even though the committee's reports to these items were submitted later than those referred to in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. We therefore accept that the proposal has been accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by points: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the registration of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity) and consideration of it as a point of the second agenda; the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the provision of health care financed by public funds and the Act on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional purposes and medical devices. and consider it as item twenty-second of the agenda; second reading of the draft call for action to increase the mobility of European Seniors and consider it as item twenty-four of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. I would also like to inform you that the vote on the draft resolution on commemorating the anniversary of the Third Silesian Uprising and the resolution on the date of registration of NSZZ Individual Farmers will take place after the examination of these points. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Mr. Marshal Crack.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As you know, the Law and Justice Club requested that the agenda be extended to include a ratification act on the Council's own resources decision of the European Union. We requested that this bill be referred to the committee. Today, at the meeting of the Convention, the Marshal informed us of such a plan that, yes, this item is to be considered at the current Senate meeting, but only on 27 May. Our intention as a club of law and justice was to make this ratification process urgent, that is, in those days which were originally intended for the Senate meeting, so today, tomorrow or Friday. Such an operation that we carry out this ratification at this meeting, but in more than two weeks' time, is simply unsatisfying for us. We believe that this is incompatible with both the Polish and European state rations. That is why I appeal once again, this time to your marshal, that the marshal may exercise the powers which he has under the Senate Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the article. 59, and convened the meetings of the relevant committees, budgets and finances and foreign affairs and the European Union so that these committees would meet immediately, present a report and we could vote on this ratification It's either for or against. I trust it's behind and without corrections. In this connection, I would like to request a two-hour break from the Law and Justice Club for these committees to meet. There will be an hour at one point of ratification, the one that says the Senate agrees to ratification, and an hour to consider this point of ratification, which speaks about when the bill enters into force. This is a simple, clear law that has so far been adopted by all European Union countries without amendments. Never in the history of Poland since 1997 has there been amendments to ratification. That's what you said yesterday, Professor Stanisław Biernat, who is hard to think of as sympathetic to the Law and Justice. The doctrine makes it clear that ratification should be adopted without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Why is it 15 minutes?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u3	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Why do you...]] Mr. Senator Klich, then Mr. Michał Kaminski. I would remind you that there is no discussion at the moment, we are just discussing the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u4	I would like to remind Marshal Pęk that he attended yesterday, for a while, but participated in a joint meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, a long meeting, because three and a half hours, during which the first part of the hearing of arguments of different backgrounds concerning the National Plan for Reconstruction took place. We as Senate have adopted the principle in this term that we will act fairly by listening to citizens' voices and not by following top-down directives. The state in its previous term, contrary to the rules of art, applied... well, they listened to their political patrons, not to the voice of the citizen, so we have had to deal with key matters at night many times, when no one was able to control the work of this House. [[Get to the point.]] Citizens have the right, Mr. Marshal, to know what is written in the National Plan for Reconstruction, because this money simply belongs to citizens. Not like you said, Mr. Marshal, Prime Minister Szydło, that they belong to the ministers. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Manipulant.]] No, this money belongs to all citizens of the Republic of Poland. [[Voice from the room: Constitution...]] This is the money that will make Poland grow. Therefore, citizens need to know what the good and bad sides of the National Reconstruction Plan are. The committee heard yesterday... [[Ratification doesn't...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: This is not a discussion.]] Don't bother me because I don't like it. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] The committee... [[Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm.]] The joint committees listened yesterday, Mr Marshal, to the opinions of dozens of communities, ranging from the local community, through the medical environment, through the environmental environment, to the opinions of dozens of non-governmental organisations, and also to what employers from several national organisations and workers have to say. We've come to some conclusions... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry to interrupt...]] [[Don't interrupt him, Mr. Senator doesn't like it.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...but this is just a preparation for the ratification act itself. I hope, Mr Marshal, that the other committees will also discuss the CPO and that the 19th Foreign Affairs Committee and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance will already deal with the ratification law itself, as we will discuss in this House the National Reconstruction Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Because... [[On the agenda, please...]] On the agenda. Mr. Marshal Pęk raised an important point, and in my opinion this is not a voice that we should ignore. Mr. Marshal Crack was kind enough to say And that's an important argument. The fact that our extension of debates has an impact on the Polish and European state's right. I think these are the words of the Deputy Marshal of the Senate of the Republic, who must be taken seriously and respond to these concerns of the Marshal. No, Mr Marshal, no European or Polish values or interests will be affected by the fact that the Polish Senate will hold a debate that could not be held in the Seym thanks to the votes of the PiS and the Left. We want Poles to be able to talk also, Mr Marshal, about what for today, given the widespread support for this fund from various parties, not only the governing party... The only reason why today more and more Poles are wondering if this money can be sent to them is because it is introduced in the European Parliament and at the level of the European Union to record money for the rule of law. And that is also what we want to talk about in the Senate because we want to give Poles a guarantee, as much as possible, that this money will not be lost by our country because of a notorious violation of the rule of law. [[Voice from the room: Manipulation...]] This is a very important element of this debate on the eve of ratification. I would also be very careful, Mr. Marshal, with serious accusations against sceptical people about ratifying this pact, because if you maintain such reservations, I will be forced to ask what you are doing in the government that you support, the minister who opposes this pact. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u7	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, I have one more formal issue. I need to explain here...]] Mr. Marshal, you'll have the last vote, but now you're remotely Senator Brejza. Room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to say that we're not and we're not operating as any coffee machine. And it's not gonna be that someone on Nowogrodzka pushes the button, and we stand on our guard, and in a few hours we automatically process such a serious matter. [[Voice from the room: Stupid talk.]] Locals from all over Poland report to us, representatives of various industries, concerned about the lack of some solutions guaranteeing a fair distribution of European funds, especially after experience in the distribution of government funds only for their own, for PiS activists... [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] ...and, so to speak, cutting out local communities, excluding the residents of half of Poland, just because PiS activists do not rule there. [[Thank you very much...]] Local communities, local governments want a fair distribution of EU funds, because investments in local Poland do not have a party colour and its inhabitants, who do not support the PiS, too, deserve these funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u9	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... [[Mr. Marshal, you allowed three speakers on the one hand. Come on, don't be silly.]] Minister, he'll be here all day for the discussion... [[But we're not discussing...]] [[No, Mr. Marshal, I have...]] Don't interrupt me... [[But...]] I'll give you the floor, just remind you and all the senators that we're discussing the agenda right now. In this respect, I am giving the Minister the floor. Please speak briefly, because I will close this debate in a moment. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would absolutely like to protest against this lying narrative that the Civic Platform is trying to suffocate here. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought you fell, but I didn't know you could fall so low. [[It's from the beginning of the session...]] From the Euro-enthusiastic party you have become a party that is anti-European. In this case, your actions absolutely, clearly indicate that you are an anti-European party. Because you're aware... [[You're talking to your Ziobra coalitioner?]] Gentlemen, you are aware that last July, your leader, Boris Budka, said that a government that does not want to accept the European Union's budget, which will block the adoption of the European Union budget, is a government that should not have its mandate in its own country. That's what Boris Budka said, ladies and gentlemen. Today, let us discuss what the budget from the European Union will be like for the next 6 years, PLN 770 billion, which Mr Mateusz Morawiecki negotiated at the EU summit last July. And that is what we are discussing today: 770 billion PLN. As a success, you considered that Donald Tusk had brought 340 billion from the EU budget a few years ago, and that was an enormous success for you. Today we are talking about PLN 770 billion for Poland and for Poles. This money will not be eaten by the Law and Justice or will it be given by the Law and Justice, because this lying narrative that you are trying to accomplish here is nothing to do with reality. I come from the city of Radom, where the Civic Platform has been running for six years. Ladies and gentlemen, out of these funds which distributes the government of Law and Justice, the city of Radom received PLN 52 million. There's no law and justice, there's no civil platform. [[Minister, we're discussing...]] And there are hundreds of cities that run by the Civic Platform, through the PSL, through the Left, all over the country. [[Minister...]] And don't tell me we're splitting Poland in half!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u11	Minister, thank you so much for this vote because he convinced me that the temperature of emotion And we're just talking about the agenda, and it's so big that I made the right decision to spend the whole special day on the agenda. [[Applause]] And since I respect the autonomy of all committee chairmen, And I'm gonna direct and direct this legislative proposal to a lot of committees. I'm not going to take advantage of this article. 59 Rules of Procedure and force committee chairmen to proceed in express mode today, because this is not in line with the nature of the Senate, it would not be a proper legislative process. And that's where I close this discussion. Therefore, I consider the proposal to be pointless. We proceed to the next part of the session... [[Mr. Marshal, but there's been a formal motion, we should vote him out. Whether he's accepted or not, it's up to us, not you.]] I would like your opinion, Mr. Chaplainski. You're welcome, sir. Request for a break, Mr President, absolutely, and request that I take advantage of the article. 59... forgive me, but you will not vote. about what I'm supposed to do, because I still answer to the people and my conscience. I made it quite clear that from this prerogatives contained in the article. 59 won't use it, and you can't force me to vote. That's why the proposal is pointless. [[Voice from the room: And for a break...]] You're welcome to take a break. [[Voices from the hall: But why break? Why?]] [[Voices from the room: Everyone has the right to request a break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u12	Requesting a recess so that the marshal can calm his emotions and calm his mind about this decision. So that he would not give in to Senator Klich's pressure, who must not be interrupted, and yet make this decision on his own. Courage, Mr. Marshal... [[You'll be, uh...]] We want to talk about ratification, not the National Reconstruction Plan. We want the Senate to really take care of what's in the Seym presentation. Senator Klich, of course, the seminaral discussions in your committee on how Europe should develop can even continue until the end of this term of office. This does not conflict with my intention to get us to ratify as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u13	Senator Kwiatkowski, but please be brief, because we have I'll remind you. 25 points.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u14	Very briefly. Mr. Marshal, I am against this proposal because of the way it is justified. Mr. Marshal, well, the reason that you're calling for a recess is so that the Marshal of the Polish Senate, who is doing his job, will be calmed down... [[Voice from the room: To calm the emotions!]] Oh, he calmed his emotions. Good. I'm sorry. Please... [[Listen to me with understanding.]] [[Stop putting words in your mouth that you don't say!]] Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, there's no need to calm the emotions, there's a need for a normal job that voters expect us to do. [[But these are the emotions of your marshal...]] That is why I believe that this proposal is unfounded. If you say you have a need to meet a club, of course I would support that. But that's the way to justify... Emotions are here to say, at the normal level in parliamentary work and the difference in positions. I'm against the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u15	Senator Zdrojewska asked for the floor. This is the last...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u16	Yes, thank you. I would just like to appeal to Vice-Marshal Pak to withdraw his request for a recess, for example... Not only for reasons of justification, but also because we have guests in the hall, before us 2 resolutions, and just our guests will have to wait these 2 hours. Maybe there'd be a break later? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator, for that vote. I would also ask the president of the club, Mr Marek Martynowski, to accept this proposal for the reasons that I am about to extort. At the moment we have a resolution on the Silesian uprisings, at 12:00 am opening of the exhibition. And there's gonna be a half-hour break. Then there will be a resolution concerning the NSZZ Individual Farmers (Solidarity). Senator Chróścikowski and Senator Pupa asked me to vote with them immediately after the draft resolution was presented. I ignore the fact that there will be an opening of the exhibition outside the Senate, etc. This is case two. So we can vote on the request for a break, even two hours if you care about it, but only after discussing the drafts of these 2 resolutions, or we will break the scenario approved by the committees and by the senators of the applicants. Besides, I won't agree to move the opening time of the Silesian Uprising exhibition. Is that what we can do, Mr President?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, all Poles are waiting for this ratification. I think that also the country who came to us on a resolution in the 100th anniversary of the Third Silesian Uprising. And I'm sure they can wait two hours, since this vote... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...all Poles can win. So I'd really like to ask you to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Vice-Marshal, who made such a formal request... I'm asking that this motion be voted out.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u19	Mr. Marshal Borowski, last vote. There's a vote coming up.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u20	Mr Martynowski, after all, Mr Marshal has already said that committee meetings will not be convened. So what's the point of this break? Well, is it to prolong our deliberations to complicate them? Come on... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u21	I'm closing... [[But, Mr. Marshal...]] ...this discussion, Mr. Marshal. [[...you promised me you'd give me the floor again. I'd like to...]] Unless you want to withdraw your request for a recess. [[No, I want to complete this proposal.]] No. [[No, no, Mr. Marshal, but...]] Mr. Marshal, the discussion is closed. [[But you promised me that I could...]] We have a request for a two-hour break... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm in charge of... [[Mr. Marshal, you promised me you'd let me speak again. I'm not gonna talk about...]] Yes, but on the agenda, Mr. Marshal. [[Yeah, yeah. That's what I'm talking about.]] You're welcome. But my good heart wins.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm maintaining this request for a recess. There is another possibility in the Senate's Rules of Procedure when it comes to convening a committee meeting. And this is my appeal for you to take advantage of this opportunity. 1/4 of the members of the committee may submit a request to convene a meeting of such committee. And we will make such a proposal for a meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. We don't have that majority on the Foreign Affairs Committee. Hence my call for you to consider during this break, whether or not it is worth calling a meeting of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The Marshal usually doesn't participate in such polemics, but... well, I don't want to remind you how many times Prime Minister Morawiecki took this item off the agenda of the Sejm because he didn't have the majority built. Let me just remind you that the fact is that the Euratom recommendation says that ratification should take place by the end of June, so we still have plenty of time. The rules and constitution say the Senate should take care of the bill that came to us from the Sejm within 30 days. We will deal with this bill after 23 days, which means we will not use the full period. I'd advise you to consider it calmly. I don't want to talk about discrepancies in the United Right Club anymore, because it's not a marshal's job. Now I'm announcing a vote that only boils down to one, i.e. to determine whether we are now announcing a two-hour break. Please turn on the apparatus. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I can't see the middle screen... Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 47 for, 50 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 2]] I find that the proposal has not been accepted. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the twenty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. Today, after the beginning of the first point, a break will be announced until 12:30, during which the exhibition, which I have already mentioned several times, will be opened. Tomorrow, i.e. On 13 May, we will consider the point on consent to the appointment of an ombudsman. The vote will take place immediately after considering this point. The Senate meeting will be extended by an additional day, 27 May, provided, of course, that the committee reports are prepared and that the legislative path is maintained correctly. We begin to consider the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution in the 100th anniversary of the Third Silesian Uprising. At this point, I would like to welcome many visitors to the meeting very warmly. Hello, Secretary of Silesian Voivodeship, Mr Dariusz Bird. Hello, Deputy Voivodeship of Opole, Mrs Teresa Barańska It's nice to meet you. Welcome to the Chairman of the Management Board of Upper Silesia-Załęgian Metropolis, Mr Kazimierz Karolczak. I don't see if you're... Oh, there it is. Here you are. Welcome, sir. We cordially welcome the president of Sosnowiec, Mr Arkadiusz Chcinski. Hello the director of the Opolskie Silesia Museum, Mrs Iwona Solisz, nice to meet you. Welcome to the Director of the Silesian Institute Bartosz Kuświk. Hello, Director of the Dąbrowski Institute, Mr Dariusz Nawrot. Welcome: Mr. Museum Director Schoen Paweł Socha Palace; President of the Management Board of the Silesian Friends Association in Warsaw, Mr. Patron Musioł; President of the Upper Silesian Historical Society, Mr. Maciej Fic; and I don't know if it is. Maestro Olgierd Łukawicz. You're here. I welcome you especially to the walls of the Senate. Let me remind you that the project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print number 389. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate this draft After agreement with the clubs and the senate circles, it was included on the agenda without first reading. I ask the authorized representative of the applicants, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear guests! I have the honour to present a resolution on behalf of the applicants in the 100th anniversary of the Third Silesian Uprising. I'll move on to the resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland in the 100th anniversary of the Third Silesian Uprising. The year 1921 proved to be very important in the context of decisions concerning the south-western border of the Second Republic. By virtue of the Treaty of Versailles on 20 March this year, after several months of preparation, the plebiscite took place in Upper Silesia. 40.3% of the region was in favour of joining Poland. voters, in favour of remaining within German borders 59.4%. The attempt taken by the Allied Powers (France, Great Britain and Italy) to translate the results of the plebiscite into territorial decisions was judged by the Polish side to be very harmful. Therefore, from 2 to 3 May 1921, the Polish population of Upper Silesia decided to call the Third Silesian Uprising as an armed demonstration of the will to join this region in Poland. The uprising lasted until 5 July 1921. He led him, as a dictator, the most important Upper Silesian politician at the time Wojciech Korfanty. Insurgent forces were commanded by the Supreme Command of the Insurgent Forces, led by Colonel Maciej Mielżyński. The Republic of the people and the arms supplied supported the Upper Silesians, thanks to which the insurgents had, among others. not available during two previous breaks with heavy equipment. To the greatest battles of the uprising That proved to be closer to the regular war activities of Kędzierzyn and Góra St. Anna. Although the armed struggle did not bring a settlement, the insurgents managed to exert effective pressure on the Allied Powers, thanks to which the finally designated Polish-German border in Upper Silesia had a more favourable course than the one proposed earlier. By decision of the League of Nations approved by the Council of Ambassadors on 20 October 1921, 46% were on the Polish side. total population and 29% the plebiscite area, and part of the region with strategic industry has been incorporated into the borders of the Second Republic of Poland. The ceremonial coverage of Upper Silesia by Poland took place on 16 July 1922. The area of the upper part of Silesia incorporated into the II part of the Polish Republic was only slightly over 1%. the whole country, but the economic importance of this area was incomparably greater 90% were located in the newly created Silesian Voivodeship. industrial production of the whole Republic. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the Silesian Insurgents for their bravery and fortitude, as well as patriotism and love of Polishness, which, despite six centuries of subordinateness of Upper Silesia and German jurisdiction, led to the accession of Upper Silesia by the reborn Polish state. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u25	Thank you very much, senator. Before there is a possibility to ask no more than a minute of questions, allow me to welcome the director of the Katowice branch of IPN, Mr Andrzej Sznajder. It wasn't marked here, so please forgive me. [[Applause]] Now is the time to ask questions. Are there any? If there isn't, I'm opening a discussion. Senator Piech is the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u26	Let me take my mask off because it's hard to breathe. Briefly. 100 years ago, from 2 to 3 May 1921, the Third Silesian Uprising broke out, which was one of the few victorious in Poland's history. Although this ancient pistol land remained outside Poland for more than 600 years, its inhabitants did not lose their identity and persisted in guarding their faith, culture and native speech. The reconstruction of the Second Republic was a complex process, and one of its elements was the return of the Upper Silesia to Poland. The Polish-German competition for Upper Silesia nationality lasting almost 2 years took place in various fields: diplomatic, propaganda and military. The 2 previous Silesian uprisings, from 1919 and 1920, did not produce a successful result for the Upper Silesians. According to the provisions of the Treaty of Versailles on Upper Silesia he was to decide the plebiscite, which was carried out on 20 March 1921. The results of the plebiscite proved to be unfavourable for Poland. Therefore, on 30 March, the Plebiscite Defence Command addressed the memorial to the Polish authorities, which expressed the necessity of the outbreak of the uprising. The armed uprising would protect Upper Silesia from the unfavorable division for Poland. In Upper Silesia there were generally 2 concepts of conducting the uprising. The first assumed a short-term military demonstration, and the second Fight until total victory. A regular armed struggle was decided to bring greater benefits. Initially, the insurgent forces numbered 40,000 people divided into 3 operating groups: North, East and South. In time, the insurgent forces increased to over 60,000. Insurgents were equipped with 50 guns, 6 armored trains, 3 armored cars, 52 transport cars, 531 heavy machine guns. Much of the weapons came from secret supplies organized by the Polish Army's intelligence and from the Upper Silesia Friends' Magazines located in border towns. At the time of the outbreak of the fights the Polish insurgents had the advantage in the southern and central areas of the operation, while Germany It's on the north side. The Third Silesian Uprising was the first of Silesian raids, which were not only agreed with representatives of the Polish state, but also received political and military assistance. On May 1st, an emergency alert was launched, a general strike broke out on May 2nd, and the attack was scheduled for May 3rd at 3:00 p.m. The first action was to overpower the German officers of the APO Parallel Police. In most places it worked perfectly. Fights broke out in a vast area from Kluczbork and Olesna in the north to Wodzisław in the south. From the beginning it was known that it was not a spontaneous break, but a well-prepared military operation supported by the Polish State. The fight was preceded by the action of the Special Destructive Group Capt. Tadeusz Puszczyński, nicknamed Konrad Wawelberg, whose main objective was to break the railway line and telegraph network and thus cut off the areas of fighting in the first moments of the uprising from meals and supplies from the Weimar Republic and from the main decision-making centres for Silesia, i.e. Wroclaw and Nysa. The action began in the evening on 2 May 1921. As a result, 7 bridges were blown up, and on 2 episodes the tracks were seriously destroyed and communication with a large area was cut off. The Germans did not expect the momentum with which the insurgent armies took action. On 3 May, the insurgents managed to attack and occupy the district cities except Gliwice, but under the pressure of the Allies, the insurgents had to leave most of them. Polish plans for Upper Silesia were supported by French troops, and hostile relations were shown by British and Italians. After the outbreak of the fights, the Allied garrisons were tried to avoid further conflicts. Therefore, the insurgents resigned from conquering cities, where allies were stationed, and instead joined the so-called. Customizing, that's creating roadblocks. In this way, Gliwice, Katowice, the Royal Huta, Zabrze, Bytom, Tarnowskie Góry and Rybnik were blocked during the first days of May. The turbulent resistance at some points did not prevent the insurgents from occupying almost the entire area designated by the Corfante Line in the first week of May. On May 10, the 5th Battle of Kędzierzyn ended with a Polish victory. After the battle, German troops began to counterattack from Gogolin towards Mount St. Anna. The correct attack of German troops took place from May 20 to May 21 in the Gogolin region. After fierce and bloody fights, the Germans managed to conquer Mount St. Anna. The next day, the insurgent command decided to counterattack, but his only success was to stop the Germans from attacking. The following days did not benefit any of the parties on the ground. The insurgents successfully defended themselves in the forefields of Kędzierzyn, and in the north there were more and more violent fights about Zębowice, whose loss would result in a breach of the front and a lap of the defense center. All assaults were denied from May 20 to 22nd. On 27 May, a few days' truce took place on the initiative of the Allies. On 4 June the Germans began a strong attack on Kędzierzyn. The city went from hand to hand three times to finally be controlled by the Germans. Insurgent troops must have fought their way back. The fights were very bloody and fierce. An industrial area which was intended to defend at all costs was directly threatened. On 5 June we managed to stop the Germans. This was the last stage of the big fight. From that point on, only patrols were on both sides. The warlords were separated by the cordons of the Allied troops, and after tedious negotiations on June 25, a truce was signed. Both sides were to evacuate their forces outside the plebiscite area. On 20 October, the League of Nations made a final decision on the division of Upper Silesia. According to the new decisions Poland received 3 thousand 214 km2, i.e. 29% of the plebiscite area, or area inhabited by 996.5 thousand people, 46% the general public. The area was economically valuable and industrialised better than the rest of Poland. On the Polish side there were 53 hard coal mines, zinc mills, coking plants, 11 of 18 coke plants, 10 of 15 zinc ore and lead mines, all 9 iron ore mines and 9 of 15 steel plants. The Silesian Uprisings are one of the most beautiful cards in the history of the Polish nation. They are the final stage of the process of unification of Polish lands of the Second Republic. The patriotism of the insurgents, their love of Polishness, reason and fortitude carry a message for future generations. A beautiful testimony of the history of his family in the context of the Silesian uprisings was expressed by an outstanding actor from Silesian Franciszek Piekka in a short television spot. He said: "The Apostles said: "Although coffee is czarno or bitter, it is only Polish!'. This testimony in an extremely touching way shows the attachment of the Silesians to Poland. I express my respect and appreciation for the Silesian people for their patriotism and love of Polishness and for their contribution to the fight for the independent Second Republic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u27	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Halin Poor will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand we have nine minutes, which is three minutes for each of the speakers. As the granddaughter of the Silesian insurgent... And since Senator Piech has basically moved everything in such detail, I'm left with a thank-you. First of all, I am very pleased that so many distinguished guests have arrived in connection with this resolution and the opening of the exhibition. I would like to thank you very warmly, because already in 2015, when the Senate marshal was still Mr. Bogdan Borusewicz, we were here with the exhibition Then from the Museum of Silesian Uprisings, which I led, he flowed to Silesia the White Eagle. This year's celebrations of the third century of the Silesian Uprising are, I think, very important. And that is why I am very pleased both that the Senate approved this year as the Year of the Silesian Uprisings, and that the commemorative resolution dedicated only to the Third Silesian Uprising was adopted by the clubs and could immediately enter the proceedings. I think what's most important is that if it weren't for the Third Uprising, the division of Upper Silesia would definitely be different. Because we all remember what the proposals were from the Corfante Line to the border proposed by Lloyd George. I think that what is also important is that Silesia, although it has not had political communication with Poland for so many years, has preserved many things and that part of Upper Silesia has been covered by Poland, by the reborn Polish state. So thank you very much. I would also like to thank the Marshal and the Senate for the fact that a commemorative brochure was prepared by the Senators of the Second Republic of Poland, the Silesian insurgents. I think that commemoration is important too. I also thank representatives of local government, government government, my friends from the institution both in the Silesian Voivodeship and in the Opole Voivodship, associations. I hope that the exhibition will complement all that is worth remembering. And so: in Silesia a safety pin is a chiller, and this is something that spins, connects. Therefore, when two years ago I was wondering what it should be like, say, a gadget or a souvenir after the uprisings, then together with an architect from Bytom, Przemo Łukasik, I think we invented that this is the pin-zicher that tightens the tins à la dog tags with the dates of the uprisings. And this prototype, which will be made and distributed in Bytom when the metropolitan celebrations of the third century of the Silesian Uprising are ending, will allow me to put on the hands of the Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u29	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! By joining Senator Poory's appeal, I will try to say in 2.5 minutes what I would like to say when considering this resolution. You've told me what your relationship with Silesia is. I don't have family relationships like this, although part of my family lives in Silesia. My grandfather was friends with Wojciech Korfanty. And I would like to say two words about this outstanding Pole, who actually was in some sense one of the fathers, if not one of the most important politicians who played a key role in joining Upper Silesia to Poland. Notabene was a character in some sense in a very politically difficult situation. He was Deputy Prime Minister in the first half of the 1920s. In 1930 he landed in Bereza Kartuska, when he returned from exile he was arrested and died in Pawiak in 1939. He's our national hero. His fate shows the fate of our heroes. What he suffered can be said, from his brothers, from the Polish state of the interwar period... This is also worth remembering when we are talking about the history of Poland. As for the subject matter of the resolution, I would like to say such a thing. We have recently celebrated the century of Poland's regaining independence. There were various festivities. And there is such an idea that this process was a one-time act that in November 1918 the Polish state was established. When considering this resolution and discussions about the integration of Upper Silesia into Poland, we can see that the process of forming borders lasted almost 4 years. After the end of the First World War, after the end of the Versailles Conference, after the end of the Polish-Bolshevik War the borders in the south, in the east, in the west, in the southwest, in the north developed in a long process. If there were no work of so many outstanding Poles, politicians, patriots who were involved in this process, the collective work, which was the Second Republic, would certainly not have been created. Thank you very much to the initiators of this resolution. I think it's very good that we're about to take it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u31	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska speaks.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u32	In order not to prolong, I will allow myself to speak. I would just like to say that we also remember the traditions of the Silesian Uprising in Lower Silesia. And not only do we remember them, but we also follow these traditions. One of the most beautiful streets in Wrocław is called the Silesian Insurgents. This is one of the longest streets. In 2014 we were able to unveil in Wroclaw, and I had the pleasure of participating in it, the magnificent monument of Wojciech Korfanty, who stood in a very worthy place. Today in Wrocław he commemorates the Silesian Uprisings, and also reminds us of Wojciech Korfanty, who studied notabene in Wrocław. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. History goes around in different circles. In the episodes of the Silesian Uprising, women who treated wounded insurgents and fed them played a major role, and today is International Nurse and Obstetrics Day. We should remember that especially now they are doing hard work. We owe them part and respect not only today, but always. [[Applause]] For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. Senator Władysław Komarnicki... Sorry, just now. We're about to write it down. The discussion is closed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the 100th anniversary of the Third Silesian Uprising. I'm asking for a vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution in the 100th anniversary of the Third Silesian Uprising. And at this point, I'm in charge of the recess until 12:30. I invite you to open a modest commemorative exhibition, which in the times of the COVID managed to prepare in the Senate. [[Adjournment in the sitting from 12 minutes 00 to 12 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u34	I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the second agenda: second reading of the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the registration of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity). I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 379, and the report "Print No 379 S." I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate of the Republic of Poland has for years drawn attention to important events which played an important role in the way to freedom, independence of citizens of the Republic. Today we have 12 May 2021. 40 years ago after the great effort of the nation, after a great effort of farmers, after a great effort of peasants was registered This process, which took place from the time of registration of the workers' solidarity until 12 May, was a time when farmers organized themselves quite strongly under, you can say, the signposts of the peasant self-defense committees in various parts of our country. After the Strzycko-Rzeszowski Accords, after the Bydgoszcz Agreements, after a very high activity of Primate Wyszyński, Archbishop Tokarczuk will soon have the 40th anniversary of the death of Primate Wyszyński. After a number of repressions, after various types of harassment, the trade union was registered as a "Solidarity." The leaders of this association were also those who held important functions in the Polish State. I will remind you that the majority of the presidents of agricultural solidarity are former members of the Senate. This is Józef Ślisz, the first vice-marshal of the Senate, Gabriel Janowski, also Senator of the Republic of Poland, Roman Wierzbicki, who also served as a senator of the Republic of Poland, is our colleague from the Senate benches Jurek Chróścikowski. The current president is Mrs Teresa Nolas, Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland. It is also worth mentioning the name of Mr Andrzej Stelmachowski, the first Marshal of the Senate, who very much supported the agricultural trade union I would also like to mention the names of other senators, Mr. Artur Balazs, Mr.Józef Frączek, but also worthy of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, for Rzeszow, for the agricultural solidarity of Prof. Bolesław Fleszar. Ladies and gentlemen, this joint effort led to the fact that on 12 May, as I have already mentioned, the Solidarity was registered. And just now there is an initiative of senators to celebrate this 40th anniversary with a resolution that will talk about this great event from years ago. Therefore, a meeting of the Legislative Commission took place. After many comments, after discussions, a project was developed after the discussion, one could say rational, reasonable, one that reflects the importance and seriousness of the moment, and shows respect for the people and environments that contributed to the fact that the agricultural trade union Allow me to present a draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 40th anniversary of the registration of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity). Forty years ago, on 12 May 1981, after many years of farmers' struggle, it was registered first in the post-war history of Poland, independent from the communist authorities, peasant union organization of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers. As a result of the events of the second half of the 1970s, when the first committees of peasant self-defense were established, among others. in Zbroszą Wielka (Samoobrona Kłopska Ziemia Grójecka), Łowisk (Samoobrona Kłopska Ziemia Rzeszowska Committee) and Ostrówk (Samoobrona Kłopska Land Committee), and later as a result of the crowd-ostrzyckie agreements, the Reunion in Poznań and the Bydgoszcz agreements of April 1981, a trade union of farmers was established and registered. This enabled the legal functioning of the agricultural community claiming rights, dignity and subjectivity of Polish farmers. The fight for registration and the possibility of public activity supported by the NSZZ and the Catholic Church, in particular Primate Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński and Bishop Ignacy Tokarczuk, because of their character, are events without precedent in the latest history of Poland. They form part of the whole history of the solidarity movement and thus into the process of overthrowing communist power and regaining independence by Poland. During the period of martial law and the exile of the Union and during the 1980s, an excellent part of his activists for their activities was persecuted and repressed and interned in detention centers in the martial state. Their families, as well as their farms, did not miss the repressions. It was also agricultural activists who provided food for strikers in workplaces, shipyards and mines and sold and created underground union press in particular in the countryside. Honoring the attitude and commitment of NSZZ activists of Individual Farmers (Solidarity), who for more than 40 years have been working continuously for individual farms and Polish villages, shaping the country's agricultural system and the broadly understood structural and institutional shape of the agricultural environment, is extremely important. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, appreciating the importance and importance of the existence in Poland of independent agricultural trade unions and the heritage and contribution that agricultural solidarity has contributed to the fight for sovereignty, independence and democratic change in Poland, expresses its deep appreciation and thanks to the founders, members and authorities of the NSZZ Individual Farmers, all those who contributed to its creation and registration, as well as those who supported and supported the Union and its members. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. This is the whole draft resolution that was adopted by the Legislative Commission. Finally, I'm going to say that I'm reminded of some words. This is, you can say, a reflection not only on this project and on the actions of farmers seeking independence, freedom, self-determination, but also on the previous resolution, which somehow commemorated the century of the Silesian Uprising. These are the words that Adam Mickiewicz put in the mouth of one of his heroes: "And they will remain in my mind." And in the way of life as a compass will show me, they will lead me where virtue; if I forget them, Thou, God in heaven, forget me! I think that gratitude for the blood, sweat, and tears of the generations that were before us, as well as those who are still alive, are with us, will prompt us to take such a resolution unanimously. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u36	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Zdzisław Pupa. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, here's the question: why was there such resistance? I'm asking you as a very well-informed person. ..on the registration of this union? Well, there were perturbations with the employee's "Solidarity," but she was faster registered, and here was a lot of resistance. This is indicated by the very course of these Shrzycko-Rzeszów agreements. It happened in February 1981, so a couple of nice months after August. Why this particular resistance to registration of this trade union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u38	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u39	I think that the period of communism is a period of nationalisation, it is a period of deprivation of private persons, citizens, private property. Farmers remained a small group of people who, at that time, spoke of owners of private households, had some independence. When the workers started their activity.Solidarity, when the protests broke out, farmers from their farms, independently, spared their time, resources and money, were helping. They delivered food to occupied workplaces, offices, places of isolation, you can say, agricultural products, so that workers could somehow fight for the right things for our country. Therefore, there was an incredible resistance just before, to allow the independence of the Polish village to allow it to Polish peasant. They were very worried that... having, you can say, private property, your assets, well, you can be largely independent. And that's what caused the resistance of communist power.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u40	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the initiators of this resolution. I'm the applicant myself, and I've obviously signed off on this project. And I would like to add a historical context here 40 years ago, because in this House there are many people who remember those events that experienced them on their own and, you can say, they are witnesses of history, witnesses of these events which have had a significant impact on where Poland is now and how these extraordinary democratic changes in Poland after 1989 have been carried out. Well, High Izbo, late winter and spring 1981, it was a particularly dramatic time, because there were constant problems with the fulfilment of the commitments which the communist authorities had made, just signed by it. And these were 3 such main packages: the Gdańsk package, 21 postulates of 31 August Later on, the Jastrzębski agreements concerning Silesia, and finally the crowd-strzyckie agreements, signed in February 1981. We know that the registration process of the Association of Individual Farmers was an extremely dramatic process. We had the opportunity in this House to adopt a resolution on the 40th anniversary of the Bydgoszcz events, you were Senator Rulewski, the hero of those events, the hero of the fight for our independence. And we know that this climate, this resistance to registration of this relationship was special. He also had this legal form because it was claimed that trade unions operate in establishments where employees are employed, and they have the right to join in free, independent unions. However, the farmer is, as it were, his own helm and ship. And mostly against this background, at least in a formal manner, it was tried to put forward arguments for not registering a relationship. Of course, it was something completely different. On the one hand, there was talk of giving the opportunity to self-organize the rural, agricultural environment, and on the other hand, the communist authorities realized that, as Senator Zdzisław Pupa said... It was a phenomenon of the times of the Polish People's Republic: nevertheless, in Poland the Catholic Church was quite strong and under conditions of limited democratic capabilities and freedoms preserved, thanks to the Primate of the Millennium, sovereignty regarding the preaching of the Gospel and even the ministry of pastoral service in these special times. In addition, private property was quite strong, especially in the countryside, where the vast majority of the area belonged to individual owners. It can be said that Polish farmers were owners and did not give up whether the processes of collectiveisation or other activities, which in particular in the 1950s the Polish village was subjected in a special way. The resistance to not registering a trade union was indeed large. It may be worth mentioning here such a little-known episode on March 26, 1981, the meeting of the already terminally ill Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński with the newly appointed Prime Minister of the Peerel government, General Wojciech Jaruzelski, took place. Let me remind you: On 11 February, if I remember correctly, Wojciech Jaruzelski became Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland. This meeting of these 2 people, which lasted 3.5 hours, I will repeat: 3.5 hours, caused Wojciech Jaruzelski to undertake to register the Association of Individual Farmers. It was a very important moment. Of course, there were these dramatic Bydgoszcz events in the background, there was a warning strike, there were many other events that are widely known, so I don't want to talk about it here. Later, a few such dramatic events took place. In two days it will be the round 40th anniversary of the assassination of St. John Paul II in St. Peter... tomorrow, tomorrow will be exactly 40 years. And the 28th of May, the day after the end of our deliberations, which will be the twenty-seventh anniversary of the death of the Primate of the Millennium, Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. So it can be said that at this time the memory calendar associated with our history is abundant in various kinds of events. The dying priest spoke twice in May 1981 to Pope John Paul II. The first conversation took place on 5 May, when the Primate told the Holy Father that there would probably be registration of the Association of Professional Individual Farmers and that there were huge pastoral challenges before the Church in Poland, connected also with those changes that were then carried out, during this period of so-called. The Carnival of Solidarity. The second conversation was much more dramatic because it took place after the assassination of St. John Paul II. On May 22, there was a call from Gemella's clinic on Honeymoon that the Holy Father would like to speak with the Primate priest. And imagine the drama of the situation: the telephone cord turned out to be too short and you couldn't... And the priest was already in such a state that he could only speak in bed. So this conversation was postponed to the next day, there came the telecommunications technicians, the cable extended and the next day there was a dramatic conversation, or actually goodbye to these two great Poles. I remind you of all this so that we remember that we are at such a special moment when it comes to the 40th anniversary and the series of various events which had a significant impact on the changes that took place in Poland after 1989. Such shortcuts are often made, also as regards 1918, as I said on the occasion of the resolution concerning the Third Silesian Uprising, that a date is adopted and it is considered that at this point everything has actually already been done. No, it was, you could say, a process, a sequence of changes, impulses, actions that led to concrete decisions. I would like to thank the initiators of this resolution once again and wish all farmers who are working in a trade union, solidarity of individual farmers, fruitful activities and that the situation in the countryside is as good as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u42	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On the part of Senator Jackowski, there was a question here, for which I thank you, why in the case of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers this resistance of communist power was much greater. It was bigger because, of course, the postulates guaranteed the peasants property and freedom to trade in the land, something that was contrary to the genesis of the system which then existed in Poland. This alignment of the ownership of individual farmers with the property of state farms was something that was mentally difficult to accept, of course, for the power of that time. But that's not why I wanted to speak. Thank you very much to the initiators, and thank you also for reminding one person, and one more thing I would like to say briefly. I'm talking about two MPs, two special people. I am very pleased that there has already been a reference here to one of the advisors of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers. I am talking about you, Prof. Stelmachowski, a person of whom in this room in a special, special way, we must always remember about the first marshal of the reborn Senate in 1989 and the one who was an advisor to the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union, Solidarity of Individual Farmers. But let me just say that because he's an important person to me, I'm going to appeal to the other person too. I would like to remind you of the character of the second advisor of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers, also a professor, also a parliamentarian, co-author of the Strzycko-Rzeszów agreements, who advised during the peasant strike in Podkarpacie. This is the former President of the Supreme Chamber of Control, Prof. Valerian Panko. She's special to me. She's special to me. These stays in Brzozów, in Turzy Pol, in the church where there is a plaque commemorating him, in the cemetery it was such a permanent element of referring to the achievements of Prof. Valerian Panka as a person with a beautiful state resume. In difficult times, when it was necessary to bear witness, he helped in this extremely difficult peasant strike in Ustrzyki, in Rzeszów, and then actively joined, as one of the most important officers of the reborn Polish state, in building another institution, institution in a democratic state of law, which was the Supreme Chamber of Control. Unfortunately, for this effort, he paid the highest price for this work. Now is not the time to talk about it, because today, of course, we commemorate the Solidarity of Individual Farmers, so today I will just say that we thank Prof. Andrzej Stelmachowski and Prof. Valerian Pance, advisors to the Solidarity of Individual Farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u44	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that you have submitted your speech to the minutes by Senator Alexander Swed. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We'll proceed to the vote... I'm calling a five-minute recess until 1 p.m. At 1 p.m., we will proceed to the vote in five minutes. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 55 to 13 minutes 00]] Please take your seats, senator and senator. I'm reopening the session. [[Voice from the room: And we vote...]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of registration of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity). Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 81 voted in favour, no one abstained and no one voted against. [[Voting No 4]] Thank you very much. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the 40th anniversary of the registration of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity). [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 375 and the committee's report In print No 375 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jack Bogucki, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u45	Miss Marshal! High Senate! Minister! The Act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws was adopted by the Sejm and passed on to the Senate. On 28 April, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development examined the law and adopted it without amendment. The Act amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and certain other laws results from the adaptation of the Polish rules on direct payments and other types of aid in agriculture to the amended Union law. This law changed at the end of March and therefore the government and parliament had relatively little time to introduce the relevant provisions into the Polish legal order, especially as they concern the period of submission of proposals, amendments to these proposals, changes to these proposals, which are already ongoing and ending on 15 May. Of course, the changes do not apply to this period, so farmers can continue to apply calmly. This law introduces changes to the benefit of farmers, which will make the process of granting payments and payments more farmers-friendly in the future by both the government, the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. One major change concerns the possibility of using as proof photographs taken and sent using an application made available by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. These photographs will allow the facts that are in the fields to be confirmed if there are doubts about how, for example. the land used is the land that we have in the fields. The second major amendment introduced by the Act is to allow the European Commission's decision to postpone the deadline for submitting payment applications and to amend them in the future. Under the law, the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development will be able to delay agricultural work or drought or floods, which make it necessary to postpone the deadline for submitting applications... In such situations, without the consent of the European Commission, the Minister will be able to extend such time limits, as I said, without having to wait for a decision and without a lengthy procedure. Therefore, given that these changes generally benefit farmers, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I request that the draft law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u46	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I don't have any calls from another room either. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Anna Gembicka: Mr Marshal, if I may speak...]] You're welcome, Minister. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for not doing so. I'm so sorry. Please take the floor of the Minister, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Ms Anna Gembicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u47	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Senate! I would like to thank the High Senate for working on the bill that has been submitted. The Act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws introduces a number of solutions that improve the process of spending funds under direct support schemes and under the Rural Development Programme. The Senator rapporteur has already put forward the main points set out in this law. I would just like to stress that the EU rules that affected legislative work, the Commission's implementing regulation, were only published on 29 March this year, and therefore the law could not be addressed to parliamentary work at an earlier date. It is possible to put the bill on the agenda of today's sitting because the work on the draft law had already been undertaken before the publication of these provisions, based on the preliminary assumptions proposed by the European Commission. Given that farmers should benefit from the provisions proposed in the Act again this year, i.e. as part of the ongoing application campaign, it is necessary to proceed urgently with the act. In particular, these are the issues set out in EU legislation concerning the delegation to the Minister for Agriculture to extend the deadline for submitting applications and the deadline for amending applications. As I said, the rapporteur has already put forward the most important points. These are changes concerning, among others. the possibility of electronic submission of certain documents to applications, the possibility of uploading photos in an application prepared by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. This is all intended to facilitate and speed up the process of submitting direct payments applications. In conclusion, I would like to say that I hope that the solutions recommended in the Act justify the urgent entry into force of the provisions contained therein. I therefore ask the High Senate to adopt the Act submitted urgently so that these regulations can enter into force within the prescribed time limit. Once again, I would like to stress that the law contains provisions that are beneficial for farmers, and these provisions are necessary for the proper implementation of the proposals campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u48	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question, Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. There are no senators to discuss. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 371 and the Commission's reports In print No 371 A, 371 B and 371 C. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Małgorzata Kopiczko, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I present to you the report of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport of 7 May on the amendment of the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. This part is devoted to the educational part. The Commission has given a positive opinion on the law Five votes for, two votes against, one senator abstained. The purpose of the Act is to amend the increase in 2021 of the amount of the reserve of the educational part of the general subsidy referred to in Article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of 13 November 2003 on the income of local government units as amended. This reserve is increased by an amount of 187 million from the State budget. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, the need to increase the limit of the provision of the educational part of the general subsidy is due to the need to provide local government units with additional funding for the payment of salaries to teachers who will carry out additional support activities for pupils. Additional support activities are designed to help students After returning to schools after completing remote learning since October 2020, learn and maintain knowledge and skills from selected compulsory general education activities. These classes are to be addressed to pupils in primary and secondary schools and to artistic pupils in general education. The implementation of additional support activities is intended to be a voluntary task. It will be possible to organise them in all of these schools if parents report to the school principal that they would like to take part in such activities. It was initially assumed that these classes would be organised exclusively from compulsory general education activities included in the framework curricula for a particular type of school. The size of these activities will not exceed 10 hours for each branch. Classes are to be organised for a group of at least 10 pupils and at least 5 pupils in smaller schools. During the committee meeting, the difference between compensatory activities and supporting activities was clarified. The compensatory classes are included in the curriculum and will be carried out in accordance with the planned curriculum. Supporting classes are to be conducted in addition to help students catch up, as I said earlier, especially with compulsory educational activities. This issue has been clarified and discussed. Thank you very much. Please accept the bill without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u50	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Alicia Chybicka, to submit a report to the committee. I'm sorry, actually I should say the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator. You're welcome, Senator, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 11 May, the Health Commission met on the review of the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to Prevention, Prevention and Combating COVID-19 is essentially aimed at correcting the different legal solutions introduced in the framework of anti-covidive measures. The main change giving rise to this legislative initiative concerns an increase in the amount of the reserve of the educational part of the general subsidy referred to in Article 2021. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Law of 13 November 2003 on the income of local government units. This law also included a vaccination system in pharmacies. The intention of the Ministry of Health was to introduce additional vaccinations against COVID-19, but in general it is also about all other vaccinations, as the Deputy Minister of Health Anna Goławska said at the committee meeting. The Commission introduced 1 amendment to the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19. This amendment increases the limit of the special-purpose reserve from the proposed PLN 187 million to PLN 280 million for the remuneration of teachers who will conduct additional classes in schools. They have, as has already been said, help students to establish material and to fill possible gaps in remote learning. The chairman of our committee, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, noted that during the work on the Law in the Seym, an amendment was introduced to allow vaccination in public pharmacies. However, it indicated that such a change should be made separately by amending pharmaceutical law. She recalled that the senators had repeatedly pointed out the need to amend the rules so that vaccination activities could be carried out in pharmacies, e.g. against influenza or preventive research, as is the case in the countries of the European Union. The President of the Supreme Pharmacy Council, Mrs Elżbieta Piotrowska-Rutkowska, called for a record of vaccination in pharmacies despite the fact that it is some kind of bill drop. This will allow vaccination in pharmacies. As she said, vaccinations in pharmacies are carried out in 13 countries in Europe. Deputy Minister Goławska once again explained that the intention of the Ministry of Health was to include pharmacies in the vaccination system. The Commission has adopted a law with this amendment. I would also like to say that the Legislative Office referred to this law very critically and made numerous allegations, including concerning the unconstitutionality of the records and the multitude of contributions. I asked myself at the committee's meeting why this law included e.g. Retirement rules for miners, but I didn't actually get the answer to that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u52	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Gromek, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! My previous speaker, the senator and the second senator, said there were some changes here. Namely, the main amendment, which is included in this Act, concerns changes in the budget of education; the other changes have been added. It's a little weird that almost 100% Members of the Sejm voted in favour of this law, although there were also indications that it was incompatible with the Constitution. Yesterday, going to the committee meeting I wasn't the only one who thought so. I was convinced that this would be an easy discussion, that we would vote and move on. Well, unfortunately, the Legislative Bureau presented the situation as it presented, and as a committee, we have such important changes... Therefore, it was agreed with Senator Beata Małecka-Libera and with our club that a meeting of 3 committees should be held tomorrow at 8.00. It's about what we've done about these three committees, i.e. the local government committee, the school board and the health committee... The point is, we're gonna make one sentence. Because, like I said, it's very important what the Legislative Bureau said. That we absolutely cannot vote it out in this form. This 187 million is absolutely, although the Health Committee proposes an increase of 93 million... But the discussion about vaccination in pharmacies could even be postponed. If it had to be introduced by a separate law, nothing would happen. Because right now we're seeing the situation. The next issue is the regulation of transitional provisions providing for the possibility of temporary issuing public documents which do not comply with security requirements. And another case that has to be completed by July 11th this year. The added regulation aims to take into account the right to mining pensions and the amount of the temporary secondment of a miner with the privileges of a mountain rescuer when determining the right to a mining pension. There's a little mishma in this bill, that's why. Without questioning the merits of the proposed solutions and the urgent need to bring them into legal order, reservations should be raised as to the modalities for the amendment of the Article. A law which violates the constitutional rules of law. What is most important, in this discussion that has already been discussed in the Sejm and with us at some committee meetings, was that there must be 3 readings and this has been violated. That's why the council committee... I'm not getting a divorce anymore because I think three committees are going to meet tomorrow at 8.00 and we're going to discuss it, and we're going to end this discussion with a consensus. And the proposal of the self-government committee is as follows: under the title of the law, the words "and certain other laws' are deleted and Article is deleted. 2. And, which is very important, we have noticed with your counsel that the last amendment contained in the report of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration has been mistakenly affected by a typing error. It's written in art. 4 and should be in Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 Like I said, I could talk a lot about this, but since there's a proposal to sit three committees tomorrow, let me finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u54	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. All the senators of the rapporteurs who had just performed. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Education and Science has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Originally, this draft law consisted primarily of provisions relating to the education and science system. This was to enable one of the government programmes to be implemented, which would help to offset the negative effects of long-term distance education. In this programme, we wanted to draw attention to the possibility of introducing additional activities that would help students learn the knowledge and skills set out in the curriculum. For this purpose, additionally from the state budget, we have allocated PLN 187 million, which was intended to increase the provision of education subsidies and help finance local governments... to enable, not help, only to enable local governments to finance supporting classes in the number of 10 hours per branch. For this we have prepared a draft regulation, which today should be placed on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science, so that all interested or all interested organisations can express their opinion on the purely technical way in which these funds are distributed. We would like these classes to be started even at the turn of May and June, even before the holidays, if some of the schools will be able to meet them in time. If not, it will be possible to implement them in full also from September, i.e. from the following school year, until the end of the current calendar year. In these regulations, we try to be as flexible as possible about the possibilities of carrying out these activities, we allow it in groups of at least 10 people, and in the case of larger schools there is even the possibility of combining these groups between different branches or between age groups. The idea is not to put any artificial barriers to the realization of these activities. In smaller schools, mainly in rural areas, this number is limited to 5 people, and in schools where combined teaching is ongoing, it is possible to avoid both of these barriers. The head of the school, asking for the possibility to carry out these classes, gives a minimum number of information on the number of hours planned to assist. All these provisions are intended to make the use of this measure as much easier as possible, with this plan to assist pupils in order to minimise the extent of the negative effects of distance learning. Other programmes respond to needs in other areas. In the course of parliamentary work, as the senators have pointed out, there have been amendments relating to slightly different areas of activity, but also related to the fight against the COVID-19 epidemic in our country. The senators in the comments submitted after the committee meeting indicated what they were about, inter alia. facilitate the vaccination process or other elements, but also related to combating the epidemic in our country. Since these rules are intended to facilitate the fight against epidemics, the government obviously calls for the adoption of a law in its entirety, not only in this part concerning educational matters, but also in relation to vaccination and the fight against epidemics. If there are questions, then both me and Minister Goławska are ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. I was just about to ask the senators and senator. At present, no longer than a minute of query can be asked by government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know if the Minister representing the Ministry of Education should answer that question, perhaps someone from the Ministry of Education. Namely, this law is clean, and therefore it is understandable that it covers issues related to COVID plus further educational issues, i.e. additional funding from subsidies. But it's one of those rules, and it's about art. 4, which amends the law on public documents, really has little to do with COVID. I mean, maybe indirectly, that's what I'd like to ask. It extends, including the provision, periods of printing possibilities, issuing documents without adequate safeguards set out in the Act on public documents, i.e. a transitional period is proposed. This law is from 2018, this basic law, I'm talking about the law about public documents, so it has nothing to do with COVID, and fortunately it hasn't been mentioned yet. And these periods extend, depending on the category of documents, from 2 to 3 years or from 4 to 5. Okay, but these transitional periods in the Public Documents Act are defined in relation to the entry into force of this law from 2018. They're not about covid issues, they're about the bill. So that would mean that this is an attempt to smuggle, in quotes, of course, a provision related to the Public Documents Act, a little bit of a recipe, among several other pandemic-related rules. Well, if there's any longer periods, there's got to be a reason. As I said, these periods, understood as transition periods, are included in the Mother's 2018 Act, and then there was no reason for that. And that's a question for someone from the government, but I don't know who can answer it. What is the actual reason for the extension of these transitional periods?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u58	Thank you, Senator. Well, given the reservations you've made, not knowing if the addressees are adequate here. Let me put it this way. I will address this question to the ministers: do you feel competent to answer the question asked by the senator? [[Mr. Marshal, maybe just in writing...]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Dariusz Piontkowski: In writing, we are in favour.]] I see. Well, thank you very much, Senator. Thank you, ministers. Are there any other questions? [[There isn't.]] I'd like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to grant... [[Mr. Marshal, I have a question. Ambrose, room 217.]] Excuse me. [[Senator Ambrosik.]] Yes. You're welcome, Senator Ambrosik. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u59	That's it. That's it. That's it. Well, there were doubts, and they also appeared in the media. Will non-public institutions also be able to benefit from this subsidy?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u60	Minister, you're welcome. The Minister is on his way to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Yes, of course, non-public institutions, that is, non-government institutions, you thought about it, as I understand it. They will also be able to benefit from these support activities. We have excluded only adult schools from this possibility. As far as these documents are concerned, I understand that the pandemic has caused various problems, not just in the economy. There was a need to extend the various types of contracts that even private parties signed. Covide laws have repeatedly adopted rules that allowed for an extension of the deadline for implementation of a contract. As I understand it, similar obstacles could also arise in the case of the implementation of this law. But, of course, we will answer your question more in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. I'm opening a discussion. I don't see anyone who's willing to speak. I would like to inform you that the senators Alexander Sweed, Mariusz Gromko, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Janusz Gromek and Janusz Bęcherz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. There were no legislative proposals. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Act on the Protection of the Rights of the Buyer of the Apartment or Single Family House and the Developer's Guarantee Fund and consider it as item thirteen of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I don't hear any objections. I state that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I repeat: this means that the point concerning the Act on the Protection of the Rights of the Buyer of the Living Space will be considered as point thirteen of our agenda. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Family Support and foster care. The text of the Act is contained in print No 378 and the report of the Commission In print No 378 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill... not the project, but the bill has already entered the marshal's staff on April 17th. On 5 May, the Senate Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy considered the provisions of this, it would seem, a simple law, because containing a delegation to the government to issue an appropriate regulation, which will facilitate and digitise the submission of applications for benefits paid under, among others. Good start. And here we encountered the first obstacle, namely the non-compliance with the Regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers of 20 June 2002 on the principles of correct legislation, of which §13 reads as follows: At the same time, draft regulations of fundamental importance for its functioning are being prepared with the bill. No draft regulation. The Minister, asked about this regulation, for which the delegation is included in the Act, replied that this regulation is, but at the stage of inter-ministerial arrangements. So it's de facto gone, and the draft regulation should be included in the bill. I asked the Minister about these issues. That is also what Senator Filip Libicki asked. We got the answer that I gave you just now. The second question concerning this law concerned further restrictions on the tasks of local authorities. According to the Act, the good start program, which is intended to assist in the education of Polish children or, precisely quoting the objectives pursued by it, is to be an investment in this education, is to stop being implemented by the municipalities and start being implemented by the Social Insurance Institution. Since we considered this to be another manifestation of the decentralisation of the state, I applied for the rejection of the law primarily for formal reasons. The bad tradition of bad legislation can no longer be accepted by the High House. Hence the motion to reject this law. The motion received four votes in favour, four votes against. Senator Ryszard Majer filed a motion to adopt the bill without amendment. This motion received four votes in favour, four votes against. Therefore, the High House remains in the hands of the third reading to decide what to do about this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u64	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family and Social Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Minister Barbara Socha of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u65	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present a bill amending the law on family support and foster care. The project concerns, as the senator said, a change in the statutory delegation for the government to implement programmes related to family support. An example of such a programme is the government's programme The draft regulation for this programme will be examined by KWRIST next week, following inter-ministerial arrangements and exists. The main objective of this change, which we are proposing, is not to recentralise the state, but to improve and automate a certain easy to perform and completely automated task, which is the payment of the benefit from the program "Good start," i.e. the so-called. expeditions. This is a benefit paid once a year in a fixed amount for all learning children, and therefore it is very easy to automate. As a result, the burden of local authorities in this work and the savings spread over time, because in the coming years this task performed by the Social Insurance Institution will be much cheaper to implement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u66	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't hear you. Thank you very much, Minister. Before opening the discussion, let me go back to item four of the agenda for a moment and read that the Senators did not make proposals of a legislative nature in the discussion on item four, but the committees made different proposals. I therefore ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the fourth item of the agenda will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Now I open the discussion at point five. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The "Good Start" programme is a program that Law and Justice boasts about, and rightly so, as a programme 500+: PLN 300 for each student up to the age of 20 or up to the fourth in the case of a child with disabilities. The purpose of this programme is, as the rulers themselves say, investment in education of Polish children. To date, this programme has been implemented by social assistance centres or units that the municipality has designated to handle this task. It was close to the citizen, everyone got used to it, parents knew where to apply, the municipality learned these proposals to consider, what's more, it has about its citizens, which in a moment, much more information than the Social Insurance Institution, which is about to become the realist of this task. Let us look closely at the tasks that the legislator has assigned to the Social Insurance Institution: establishing and establishing a social security obligation, establishing entitlement to benefits and paying benefits, collecting social, health contributions, the Labour Fund, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, carrying out settlements with the payer of contributions. Right. It also pays benefits of different types, such as care benefits, as well as pensions. And this in some sense is related to this direct activity of the Social Insurance Institution, the organisation established for this purpose. There's not a word about children's education. You know, Mr. Marshal's received a lot of letters, but I'm going to quote this one. It is a letter from the President of one of the major cities of Wielkopolska, who writes that the proposal to entrust certain tasks to other entities, in particular to transfer them to the Social Security Office, must raise legitimate concerns. Such an example could be to entrust the ZUS with the implementation of a tourist voucher in a situation where local authorities had a full database of information about the beneficiaries, staff and equipment to carry out the task. In practice, the Social Insurance Institution, without full data, either applied to municipalities or did not provide assistance in the form of a travel voucher, which unnecessarily extended the procedures for handling cases and threatened the costs of examining them. Mr President is presenting similar concerns to the marshal and to us in the case of the "Good start." It also raises concerns about the payment of benefits to families where, at the day of application, the child is not staying with biological parents, but in foster families, care and care institutions providing 24/7 care for the child. Social assistance centres are in possession of up-to-date information about a child who is entitled to pay this benefit, i.e. a good start. Tell me: why do you want to make this programme worse by acting against the principle of subsidiarity, which is, after all, based on the Constitution itself? We know that under this principle a lower level body can only be performed by a senior authority if it is unable to fulfil its responsibilities. Are the municipalities not fulfilling or failing their duty to pay off a good start? No. So what's the reason for the change? In my opinion, the reason for the change is the decentralisation of the state. The state, the Government, the Law and Justice, you don't like local governments, and it's much better for you when a central office or a good government gives you that money than some nasty government, which often disagrees with the highest authority and with the government, has a different opinion on this issue. This was shown by an example of the Local Investment Fund. That is what we are arguing about, about this decentralisation of looking at the way money is spent, in the case of the National Plan for Reconstruction. And I have to say that we regret to say that these are just other cases. Because the voivodship environmental funds, the whole water management, the way municipalities influence the school network, kindergartens, the issue of permits to run private schools, it's all out of our hands, it's out of government. And now this: a good start goes to the Social Insurance Institution. Come on, give me a break, but this really isn't a good idea. Moreover, you missed the need to consult the Joint Government and Local Government Commission in the case of this law. You missed it because you're writing about it in the impact assessment... I'm gonna find that fragment. Exactly: the bill was not sent to the Joint Government and Local Government Commission because it does not affect the tasks of local government units. And then, the possible impact on the tasks of local government units may have implementing acts, and I will remind you that there have been no such acts in this law. Which will be later issued on the basis of the revised delegation. So, yes, you didn't consult local authorities, you took them away, you moved them to the US, you didn't consult them, because the law doesn't apply to local authorities, but it might apply to them when, on the basis of this act, you issued a regulation that wasn't presented with the law for review by parliamentarians. Well, we can't do this because you, I'm sorry, you don't respect Parliament, you don't respect the government, you don't respect Parliament. How, then, can the higher chamber of the Polish Parliament accept this state of affairs? He can't. That's why I recommend my club rejecting this bill. Just get her ready properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u68	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Let me get this straight. I will begin by thanking President Kochan for making a motion to reject this law. I'll make some comments. I think they will cover themselves to some extent with what the President said. The first point is that we agree that the government should make this change, so to speak, on the basis of a regulation, but we do not know what this regulation will be, which is actually giving someone the opportunity to decide a little bit in the form of Blanco. We have not even been presented with a draft, an outline of what this regulation could look like. I understand that the regulation itself cannot be presented, because it is an implementing act for the law, but a project or at least some reference to what this regulation would look like to be due to us. It wasn't there. The next point is that the good start programme operated by local governments worked well. Everyone's been talking about it for many years. Everyone's been happy about it. It is difficult not to see this change, as also said by President Kochan, as an expression of the reluctance of the ruling majority to self-government and self-government as such, to this part of Polish public life, I will remind you, which, in my opinion, and I am not isolated in this opinion, is the greatest Polish success, the best reform of all political reforms after 1989. Sure, we in the Senate are also the result of this political reform after 1989, but I dare say, as a senator, that the local government reform went even more than the restoration, so to speak, in the Polish political life of the institutions of the Senate. Finally, the last question. Let me say this as someone who, every year in the Senate Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, discusses the section on the Social Insurance Institution. It is not only a matter of centralization, but it is also a matter of adding another task to the CSO. Well, the ZUS has to deal with social security by its very nature, to pay further funds from shields, support from various anti-covid laws, to serve a tourist voucher and still to operate a good start. It seems to me that every institution has some limits to its optimal functioning. When any institution becomes overloaded and, when I say so, the question of financing and paying its employees looks, to put it mildly, differently, the ability to operate customers ends somewhere. And in my opinion, even without adding this program, we are somewhere on the verge of the smooth operation of further tasks by the Social Insurance Institution. And that's what I wanted to draw attention to. I also wanted to draw attention to the opinion of the Union of Polish Metropolises, which also makes it very clear in the spirit in which Mrs Magdalena Kochan spoke. Therefore, once again thanking you very much for the motion to reject this law, I will say what will not be, I think, any surprise that I will also vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Senator, for this humble institutional speech on behalf of the Senate... [[Voice from the room: Unequipped this is...]] [[Voice from the room: Even unauthorized...]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly yes, unauthorized.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: There is no such thing as dislike for self-government...]] Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't want to take the political threads into account in my laudation for Senator Libicki, just to draw attention to the rare quality of politicians' ability to modestly admit that something was better than the institution in which we all sit together. Thank you very much. For the record, many senators have spoken in the minutes. These are Senators Ryszard Świlski, Aleksander Szwed, Mariusz Gromko, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Halina Bieda, Maciej Łuczak, Agnieszka Leszczyńska, Adam Szejnfeld. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Charter of the Large Family, the Act on informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks and the Act on childcare of children under the age of 3. The text of the Act is contained in print No 372 and the report of the Commission In print No 372 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 15 April 2021 amending the Law on the Charter of the Large Family, the Act on the IT of entities carrying out public tasks and the Act on the care of children under the age of 3. Our committee has dealt with this law at one of its last meetings and recommends that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. Shortly about the act itself. The aim of this law is to introduce solutions to improve and reduce the costs of the Charter of the Large Family and childcare institutions under the age of 3. In general, this legal regulation will introduce an electronic Large Family Card, which will simply reduce the costs of producing it as if it were producing it, it will be possible to operate this card in the form of an electronic application. It will also introduce the possibility of storing, presenting and making available for the verification of electronic cards of members of the multi-child family. The Minister responsible for Family Affairs will be able to collect data from the PESEL register regarding the date of death or finding a body of a member of a multi-child family in order to enable the mayor, mayor or city president to verify the right to the Large Family Card. There are also regulations in this law on child care issues, and really... Because there was no doubt about the substantive issues in our committee, such doubts arose about the merger of three laws in this single piece of legislation, i.e. laws on computerization and childcare of children under the age of 3. Mr Libicki and Mrs Magdalena Kochan raised such doubts. The matter was referred to by the committee meeting of Minister Barbara Socha, who dispelled the doubts of the majority of committee members and stated that the combination of these acts did not affect the quality of the whole legislative act and is necessary in view of the duration of the various laws. The Commission has adopted the law in this form and recommends that the High Senate adopt this act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I will ask a purely rhetorical question whether one of your senators wishes to ask such a question, because it is probably not a surprise to anyone who knows the details of our House's proceedings that you will ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Of course I couldn't ask you a question because I was a great postulator of the introduction of the Big Family Charter, and I wrote about it in my books and I am glad that such an institution has been introduced into public circulation. And I'm glad that there's a wide range of opportunities where access to services can be realized on the basis of the Large Family Charter, etc. But I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Whether from the point of view of the beneficiaries of this charter, i.e. multi-child families, something will change in the rules of granting, issuing a document on the basis of which public transport can later be used, or... Let me remind you that some fuel stations provide a special discount, not too big, but nevertheless, so it is also about other benefits resulting from the card. Is it to receive such a document... Will anything change in this regard? Well, because you have to have this document in plastic form, at least that's the way it is for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u74	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u75	Thank you very much for that question, Senator. It, along with the voices of other senators, also stresses the importance of the functioning of the Charter of the Big Family in our society. Indeed, it is a popular document, a document that helps families to overcome the difficulties that may arise in everyday life. This amendment, as we read in the legal regulation, and as the current Minister of Family and Social Policy said at the meeting, does not change in substance the shape and functioning of large family cards, but merely replaces this label Because this is a form of such a badge, similar to the identity card for an electronic application that everyone will be able to have on their phone and use it, with further benefits. Thus, nothing changes in the scope of this type of card itself. She's getting more and more common. More and more companies join in offering discounts for large families. Of course, we are also happy that this is becoming more and more popular. But in a substantive sense, nothing changes for the audience except that there is mentioned facilitation and that it will be as if it would be cheaper to use.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u76	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jackowski's next question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u77	But are those people who have this plastic version right now... Here I can show the High House what it looks like, so there's no doubt about what it looks like. Indeed, as the senator said, well, it is a form of such... Exactly the same format as I.D. or credit cards. Yeah, that kind of document. He's comfortable except you don't have to have a cell phone with you, do you? And with a cell phone... Well, first of all, not everyone has, especially children, and there can be different perturbations. My question is in this direction: will these plastic cards continue, will they be gradually withdrawn, with wear and loss of validity? Because some beneficiaries, parents, have them for life, but children at some point lose the opportunity to use such a card. Will they simply be obligatoryly exchanged and then there will be no longer the possibility of having such a plastic document? What's the situation gonna be like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u78	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u79	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, that wasn't the question at the committee meeting. And here, in order not to mislead anyone, I propose that the Minister answer this question in his time to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u80	Thank you very much. As I can see... No, you're still senator Mammoth. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to draw the attention of President Kochan, the Senator, and the committee to the fact that today there are such problems that cities pass the Large Family Charter on their territory, and already the inhabitants around the city cannot use this card. I've had several requests for intervention and attention. Because local authorities say that it is their cost and their finances and that it is for the inhabitants of a given city, and already a kilometer abroad inhabitants cannot benefit from it. I think in the future, you'd have to think about how to solve it. 'Cause it seems like a little problem, but he's pretty big. Quite a lot of people came to me with this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u82	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The senator has touched on a very important matter, namely the financing of many discounts and benefits for people who do not live in a place where these benefits can be implemented. In fact, the problem mainly concerns large cities, which have wider cultural infrastructure than rural towns, because there are theatres, cinemas, philharmonics, sports facilities, swimming pools. Indeed, they offer different systems of discounts, especially for families of many children, but also for older people, but according to the current line of case law of regional accounting chambers, these benefits can only be received and only by residents of the place where it is provided, because they are like beneficiaries of their local self-government. So if someone came from the outside and used the facilities of a given local government, they would get an undue income in the form of services from a non-resident location. We were wondering if, for example. do not try to establish agreements between individual local authorities, between these larger cities and smaller ones. Well, in the current legal form, it is difficult, because it would involve the fact that very detailed records of these services and possible refinancing would have to be kept. Nevertheless, this problem that you have touched by the senator. And thank you very much. It's important. I think that together with Senator Kochan at one of the committee's meetings we will take this issue and we will talk, among other things. with the Minister of Finance, with the local government party, how to make this system of discounts, especially in those cities which are of a metropolitan nature, also include residents of neighbouring municipalities, those who do not have such a large infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u84	Thank you very much, Senator. As I understand it, there are no further questions, which is why we thank the rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family and Social Policy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary rights. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I understand it is, since the Minister is coming here. Please, Minister Barbara Socha.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u85	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! I'll be brief. In fact, I will answer your question, Senator Jackowski. When it comes to conditions for people using the Large Family Card, nothing will change, that is to say, these plastic cards will still be available. What's going to change is that you don't have to apply for an electronic card. This card in this version also exists now, but as part of a separate application, which we want to eliminate and enable automatic downloading of the card in electronic version as part of mCitizen's application, to which, as you know, further functionalities are added, so this e-card mCitizen becomes more and more popular. Children can also use it as part of mIegitimation and thus have access to the electronic version of the Large Family Card. So the question of the card we ask for in local governments remains the same. With regard to local government, through this amendment we increase the funding of local governments' costs for this task, which is to increase the budget for the task of issuing these traditional plastic Large Family Karts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u86	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm warning you, Minister, they'll probably be asking you a question, because I'm already seeing Senator Jackowski... The current senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the government representative related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have the following question. Are there any discussions on the extension of the offer now? I am talking here mainly about, let's call it, broadly understood public services, because, of course, private companies have here, so to speak, some freedom and if they want to build their positive image by supporting such an initiative, they do so. Some large corporations are very happy to benefit from this, which is beneficial and for corporations because they have a regular customer, and for those families that are beneficiaries of this Big Family Cards. But are there any developments to be expected regarding these benefits or an increase in the scale of benefits under what is already in the public service sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u88	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u89	Thank you for that question. We're still working on developing this Big Family Card program. We see a very large growth, a great dynamic of joining various institutions. We already have over 10,000 partners participating in the program. From this point of view, the programme is increasingly attractive and affects more and more private companies and more. As far as public services are concerned, I personally see such a great need, but we do not yet have concrete solutions, or at least they are not at a stage to talk about them at the moment. Thank you. [[Cell phone signal]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Cell phone signal]] I'm sorry, sir, but one of your senators has a phone on, whose sound interferes with our deliberations. [[Voice from the room: I'm shutting it down.]] [[None of us present.]] Already? No one present? I'm so sorry, Minister. Are there any other questions for the Minister? You're welcome, Senator Frankiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u91	Minister, the problem of accessibility to the residents of the functional areas of the large cities of the Charter of the Large Family was raised. There was such an argument that it would take a kilometer for someone outside the city to no longer be able to use this Large Family Charter. Do you consider the creation of functional compounds also for this reason? Because if there is, for example. metropolitan union, which, as in Upper Silesia, brings together 41 entities, then this problem practically does not exist. I think that's a good argument for making relationships like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u92	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u93	Dear Senator, This question concerns local cards of a large family, which are in Poland. Moreover, the Large Family Charter so appeared, that first such initiatives were taken by local authorities. And to this day it is so that, alongside the government's Large Family Charter or the central Large Family Charter we are talking about today, there is still a sacred right of local governments to create their own local conditions to improve the situation of families, local large family cards, in different local governments they are different names. But beyond the responsibility of the Minister for Family Affairs, it is important to decide how they work together in this area, for example. Neighbouring local governments. We, of course, support such associations and cooperation at local level, such as the kind of cooperation that serves the inhabitants. However, this revision of the Large Family Charter, which we are talking about, does not apply to local local charters.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u94	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Mammoth.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u95	Thank you very much. I'm also here about the matter that Senator Frankiewicz told me about. I understand that, of course local governments have their rights and regulations and issue such cards covering their territory. It's just that it's about getting the ministry involved, too. 'Cause if you do. you will be able to refund 100 thousand to the city some amount in connection with the use of this card by the neighbouring towns I'm not even talking about districts anymore. I'm talking about neighbouring towns. This will also go in the right direction. And that's why we're giving it to you. Because that is the problem today, because the inhabitants of small suburban towns are severely disadvantaged. I understand that the city's budget is being worked by the people of this city, but the point is that the state should take into account that this society could also benefit from these cards on a refund basis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u96	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister, you're welcome. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Barbara Socha: Thank you very much for this vote. I've already said something about it, so thank you.]] Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski. I'm sorry, I didn't see...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I'd like to ask you about the idea of this big family card. The simple question is, couldn't this be extended to children? The Big Family card includes parents plus three children. But in order to get to that state, you have to have one and two children first. Maybe not in such a way, not to be thinner, God forbid, the powers that families have right now... If we really want to start this demographic, then of course there must be powers for large families, but also for families at all. That's the problem. If anybody already has three kids, it's the fourth child... Sorry, that's not my... I don't, but I suspect it's easier to have a fourth baby than the first. I'm talking about the decision to give birth to a fourth. Haven't you thought about it? There's a demographic problem. You already have an electronic and legal tooling to start granting privileges to families with fewer children, specifically children in these families.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u98	Thank you very much, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u99	Dear Senator, The idea of the Large Family Card is to support families of many children. Many families today are treated as 3+ families. The costs associated with the day-to-day operation of such a family are generally higher, and these parents have the same average income as parents with one child or two children, and even lower, which is related to the fact that in many families it is more difficult for both parents to work full-time. The idea of the Large Family Charter was to create a network of certain privileges, benefits associated with... or actually reduce the burden on families of many children. There is such an eternal dilemma in the world of marketing and advertising: the choice between expanding the market and building a clear brand. Here we have a choice between privilege for all... He ceases to be a privilege at some point because he is the privilege of everyone. I personally am in favour of any solution that will support the family in the decision to have a child. Believe me, this is my number one priority at work. There are other barriers to the birth of a first or second child, and completely different ones apply to families of many children. Personally, I am in favour of leaving this program as a program aimed at large families. We are, of course, working on other instruments which, I hope, will soon improve the situation with regard to barriers to the first and second children.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. Here's another question for you, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u101	If Senator Czerwiński brought up the subject, I'll ask the question. It may be a little out of the loop on the bill, but since the Minister is with us, I'll take the opportunity. A woman who gave birth to four children can benefit from a pension at the lowest level. There's a small group of women who've had four children, but they've earned a pension. Their retirement is most often extremely low because these women had low incomes and had breaks at work related to parental leave. We know what it looks like. And these people think it's not fair. They took the trouble of raising children and taking up a job, and now they have basically the same starting point as those who in theory may not have worked a single day and are entitled to the benefit. I, of course, do not depreciate this witness to be clear, God forbid. I'm just asking if the government is thinking about a solution that would take into account the situation I'm talking about, some sort of system solution, so that it doesn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u102	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u103	Let me answer this briefly: the government thinks about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u104	It's an important declaration. Thank you very much, Minister. Are there other questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. None of your senators have signed up. For the sake of order, I inform that the senators: Ryszard Świlski, Aleksander Szwed, Alicja Chybicka, Mariusz Gromko, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Janusz Pęcherz, Mieczysław Golba and Maciej Łuczak made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 367 and the report of the Commission In print No 367 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u105	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Marshal has passed a law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws to the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration. On 14 April the Commission dealt with this law and requested that this law be adopted without amendment. A few sentences on the purpose and content of this document. The purpose of the amendment of the Act of 6 August 2010 on Personal Evidence is to align the Polish legal order with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on improving the security of personal evidence of Union citizens and residence permits issued to Union citizens and their family members enjoying the right to free movement. The explanatory memorandum of the Law, which is being considered, states that the intention is to reduce the risk of forgery of documents and crimes against the reliability of documents by removing significant differences in the level of security of national documents for the exercise of the right of free movement. In our sitting, interestingly enough, a lobbyist took part. Although he did not speak, he was officially reported. The discussion focused mainly on the financing of tasks entrusted to local governments by the government. There was a discussion about the amounts that the Act contains for the performance of this task, the quality of the equipment, i.e. Fingerprint scanners, and stuff like that. Following the discussion, no amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau were tabled. These amendments were of an order nature, but because they were not of some decisive importance to the content of the document, we have abandoned, at the request of the government representative, the submission of these amendments. In view of the time for which the adoption and signature of that law would be delayed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u106	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Of course. I see Senator Jan Maria Jackowski wishes to do so. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you intrigued me with this information about the lobby that appeared at the committee meeting. I don't mean who it was personally, but if the senator could point out what kind of industry he represented, whether plastic producers or, I don't know... Well, I can't imagine what area of interest this lobbyist might have in the context of this bill. So if the senator had anything more to say about it... Is that the kind of knowledge we have, or isn't that just the kind of knowledge we have? Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, may I respond?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u108	You're welcome. Not only can you, but you are obliged to do so by a certain parliamentary custom, which at this point implies asking questions and answering questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u109	Mr. Senator, the correct answer is I don't know. This must have been noted in the report because these are the rules here. I can only speculate that our guest who volunteered as a lobbyist took part in this part of the sitting because of a change in the agenda of the committee, and he was interested. I'm guessing it. The next point.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u110	Thank you very much, Senator. But let me warn you, there is another question from Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u111	Now the question, which no longer concerns the circumstances and course of the committee's meeting, but the substantive law. Well, Mr. Senator, will anything change for those citizens who have important evidence at the moment? What's it gonna look like? Is there a date here? Perhaps you would like to explain this in the context of the citizens. Is there a date on which these new evidence patterns must enter? If someone who has now, at the moment, proof with a 10-year term, got it, for example. Yesterday... Is this evidence going to be valid for 10 years, but is there going to be such a moment that this person will have to change his identity card? That's the first question. And the other. I've looked through this footage, and it shows that it's possible to issue an ID card with a period of validity of up to 12 months to a person who can't make fingerprints. Does this apply to any medical units or emergency situations? Would the senator like to approximate this moment, or is it the wording that's in the bill? Thank you. [[Thank you very much...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u112	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u113	I would not like to take the bread away from Mr. Chiefenernaker, who is in the courtroom, and he is no comparison better oriented than I am. These cases were brought up on the committee. There is a deadline by which applications for proof will be dealt with in the old form and after the border date It's a new one. As far as I know, there's no need to exchange evidence that hasn't expired. What are the reasons why, due to the impossibility of photographing fingerprint lines, the evidence issued can be valid for 12 months? There may be more of these reasons, but here I am really referring to the expert of the subject. But I'm gonna say this is happening, for example. in the case of people who work very hard physically They may not be able to give a valid fingerprint for a certain period of time. It's one of the possibilities, but I suspect it's one of the more frequent ones. And I'm not gonna talk about sick people because I don't know anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u114	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you another question of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. That's the third one, I remind you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u115	Okay, thank you. Oh, you intrigued me, because then there's probably a small one. But there's something about it. The group in which, for the very reasons you spoke of, it may not be possible to take prints... well, not prints, but... what is it officially called? [[Voice from the room: Fingerprints.]] Fingerprint lines, yes, I'm sorry. And then what about that person? Will she be excluded from this... [[It seems...]] Will there be a special model document for such a person? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u116	Thank you very much, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u117	I think it's gonna be an I.D. without these prints, only that the duration of this document will be, as stated, much shorter. It's not that rare ailment. We now use fingerprint readers to personalize our daily equipment, e.g. The phone and computer, and as a curiosity, I often have a huge problem with it, because... well, if you use your hands intensively, for example. While climbing in the mountains, it is the fingerprint lines that wear out very quickly and for some time it is not possible to use this form of unlocking modern electronic equipment. So it's not so rare.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u118	Thank you very much, Senator. I don't see... Oh, I'm sorry. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u119	Short question, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo. That is, since the absence of an identity card with the latter biometric characteristic, i.e. fingerprints, with papillary lines, will be able to adversely affect e.g. on the question of our travels in Europe? Is this some kind of I.D.... I mean, since when are we gonna have to have that kind of evidence? Oh, like this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u120	That wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting. I don't want to mislead you. I suggest we redirect this question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you kindly. I'm opening a discussion... [[More questions for the minister.]] Oh, I'm so sorry, indeed. Excuse me, Minister. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. The question again is purely rhetorical: does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Because of the questions that have been raised and the efficiency with which Mr President has redirected the possibility of answering this question in my direction... Therefore, I'm answering your Marshal's question. I would like to clarify any doubts. Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! As the President said, the work on this law results from the need to bring Polish legislation into line with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on improving the security of personal evidence of Union citizens and residence permits issued to citizens of the Union and members of their families exercising their right of free movement. These solutions aim primarily at reducing the risk of forgery of documents and crimes against the reliability of documents. This draft law provides for solutions which are already covered by EU legislation. First of all, they are. are: the introduction into the layer of electronic identity card of a person who has completed 12 years of age, a new biometric given, i.e. fingerprints; a change in the validity of personal evidence in such a way that, as a rule, identity cards will have a 10-year period of validity, with exceptions, i.e. ID cards of persons up to 12 years of age will have a period of validity of 5 years and ID cards of persons from whom it is not possible to take fingerprints at the moment 12 months' period of validity. I would add here that the Act states that the person from whom fingerprinting is physically impossible shall not be fingerprinted and that such person shall normally be given proof for 10 years. So in the case of a permanent defect that doesn't allow fingerprints to be taken, the evidence is normally issued. In the case of a person who is temporarily prevented I don't know, e.g. broken hand is in plaster and cannot be downloaded The proof shall be issued for 12 months. I answer here immediately the questions that emerged in the discussion. In addition, the graphic layer of the identity card will be supplemented by the signature of the person who has completed the 12th year of age, except for those who cannot sign it. As a general rule, these solutions lead to the same patterns of personal evidence throughout the European Union, which are very different today. And, as you pointed out here, Senator, I will respond immediately. These rules enter into force throughout the European Union on 3 August this year. The new blanks will be on August 3rd. All those who apply from August 3 will be issued new blanks. As we know, today we already have evidence with an electronic layer, so that some e-services can be added in the future. Some e-services can already be implemented thanks to this evidence. It's gonna be okay. I'm answering the senator's question here. Better functioning as part of European travel. In many countries, at many airports, also in Poland, there are already so-called. ABC gates. Once the identity card has been applied, it is possible to pass without control within the framework of the right to move around the European Union. That's how I answer the questions that came out here. In addition, it is worth pointing out that as regards the possibility to apply for an ID card... Now you can do it with the Internet. If we introduce these new solutions, it will not be possible to do so, we will have to appear at the office. This is the case for passports at the moment. Such passport issuing procedures are already in place. The Act also states that the identity cards issued prior to the entry into force of the Act, i.e. before 2 August 2021, is a strong voice in answer to the question of Senator Jackowski They shall remain valid for the period for which they were issued, but no longer than 3 August 2031, i.e. 10 years after the entry into force of those provisions. There will be no need to exchange existing documents. Mr Marshal, Dear Senators, the bill is a law that adapts Polish legislation to the said EU regulation, while at the same time significantly increasing the level of security of personal evidence issued in Poland. I ask you to comply with this bill. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u123	Thank you, Minister. Now we're going to ask questions that the senators are asking. The questions are related to this bill. Senator Brejza is asking the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the evidence is to be issued for 10 years, and the certificates are to be issued for 2 years. The maximum can be 5 certificates. Question: what will happen during the period of validity of 10 years... What will happen if the processor loses its certification and the evidence is no longer a qualified device? What should a citizen do then? Do you want him replaced? If so, on what grounds? How will he be informed about this? That's the first question. Second question. Did the Internal Security Agency or other service verify the supplier of fingerprint readers selected in the tender? And the third question. Because the government of Mrs. Beata Szydło assumed in the concept that there should be 2 processors from 2 different suppliers, for security, for diversification of service providers in case one of them were to remain, for example. either eliminated or couldn't deliver the processors... As far as I'm concerned, today's CPU is being delivered from one supplier. If so, why hasn't another supplier been selected? When will it be selected?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u125	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator! Dear Senators! Given that this bill is being conducted by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration... the issues raised by the senator go beyond the scope of the MSWiA, because the steering committee that introduces and coordinates this work... Also, the minister responsible for computerization... some of the issues raised by the senator are issues related to computerization, which is why I would like to ask for an immediate written reply to some of these specific questions. As a general rule, the validity of the document is due to the validity of the certificates and therefore it was not possible to extend the validity date, the maximum period of validity to an indefinite period, i.e. as regards the validity of the electronic layer, it limits the validity of the identity card to 10 years. As regards the question of the Internal Security Agency, the Internal Security Agency is involved in the work of the e-Project Steering Committee, which also deals with the introduction of a second biometric feature into the layer of electronic proof. However, as I said, even if the tender for the purchase of these devices is carried out by the Minister for Information Technology, I would ask that there be an opportunity to answer these questions in writing immediately.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u127	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski asks questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you. Do I understand correctly that the signature will be submitted simply at the time of the application? And he's gonna be scanned there, and these techniques are gonna put in a document? And how will these fingerprint lines be introduced: in graphic form or in electronic form within this document? What's it gonna look like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u129	It will look the same as it is now under the procedure that is in the case of issuing passports. So when the application is made, the fingerprint lines will be downloaded and then... [[Sorry, I get it. I mean, how's that gonna be shown on the document? Are there gonna be fingerprint lines on this blank, or are they gonna be in some other form?]] No. They won't be on the blank. The fingerprints are collected to issue the same document to the person who submitted the application. It's just... With regard to the security of trade in documents, the point is to make sure that the same person receives the identity card for the same data that were in the application. Therefore, there are no fingerprints in the graphical part of the proof. They will be submitted for receipt of the identity card and will later be deleted from the register of documents.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u130	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u131	So I understand that this will not be shown on the document in a permanent manner? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: No.]] I just didn't know that. So thank you for that explanation. And now that I'm here, Minister, do you... [[But...]] In previous terms, we have repeatedly discussed the subject of evidence, because there was also a question of eliminating the report in evidence. Finally, this report, i.e. The address of the residence has been removed from the evidence, it is not in the identity card at the moment. There have been discussions whether it is right or wrong, because it has created some difficulties in documenting or certifying where you are registered for permanent residence. Didn't the government think to solve this issue in any way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u133	Indeed, this is a question raised several times by various organisations and environments for various reasons. However, today I do not want to present the government's clear position on this issue because it is always possible, in some ways, to suspend the possibility of deleting the report for the future. If action is taken I know that the State Election Commission has also requested this from the government and is working with the government on this issue in order to be able to create a national electoral register in the future. I think this would be one of those arguments for which you could take a step forward in those things that you're talking about. But this is not the case so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u134	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have three specific questions. A new category of biometric data appears in the law after the change. This was not before, there was no concept of biometric data, although one of these data was, of course, a facial image. Now there's two data: facial image and fingerprints. I understand it's all fingerprints. It's not a fingerprint. It's a fingerprint. Or is it about some of the chosen ones? That's the first question. Is that supposed to be, in short, 10 fingerprints? Second question. However, this data must be stored in an electronic layer, because how do you then check whether the person who uses a given identity document is this man? You have to compare it to a pattern. Suppose a man leaves a fingerprint, for example. at the precinct, and the police can check it on the basis of an electronic evidence layer. So I guess this isn't just a matter of getting proof, it's also a possible identity check. Besides, it's in the article. 12ca. And here's the last question. Since the biometric data category has already emerged, I would like to know if there is any work going on in this direction to make this data more and more. It's a simple thing, for example. The appearance of the iris is also said to be unique to humans. So that not only data... And this is even easier to check, for example. at the gates at the airports. So I ask if there will be further work on increasing the number of biometric data collected. We know what they're for. That's why I asked if it was all 10 fingers. And the last question is, what's next? 'Cause then somebody can work it out, aggregate it. This isn't about what's written in the evidence, it's about what could be collected in an electronic version in some database, in a large database. The question is: is it possible under this law? Will biometric data be collected somewhere? It's not about appearance, of course, but it's about fingerprints. In electronic form? Is there gonna be a database?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u136	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u137	To answer these questions, I'm going to say yes. Firstly, there is no work on other biometric data. As I said, this law is primarily the result of the implementation of EU legislation, which specifically refers to 2 biometric data in case of security of personal evidence. Probably in the future, along with the development of technology, such work will have to be carried out, although this law focuses on this and the work you mentioned concerning other biometric data is not taken into account. When it comes to the number of fingerprints, of course this is supposed to be 1 fingerprint, except that not always a specific finger has to have enough readable fingerprint lines to indicate this one specific one. That's why we're talking about fingers. And, as I said, in principle, the right to use the biometric data contained in the layer of electronic identity card for the purpose of verifying the authenticity of the identity card or the identity of the holder shall be those authorised for other biometric data. Here it is similar to other data in the case of identity cards, data that can be verified to verify the authenticity of the identity card and identity of the person who presents it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u138	Senator Krzysztof Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Whether the solution proposed by the States is compatible with eIDAS Regulation No 910/2014 as regards Article. 30 and 31? It is, of course, about the publication of information by the European Commission. And if it is not compatible, since when do you know that Polish solutions contain an error in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u140	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u141	First of all, I couldn't hear the question, but... [[Mr. Senator...]] Secondly, if the senator were to... [[I can say it again.]] ...could also clarify... [[If you don't mind, Senator, say it again, will you? And louder, please.]] ...to clarify exactly what you're talking about, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u142	The lists published by the European Commission pursuant to Regulation No 910/2014 shall indicate the technical components of the signature device, which are to be composed of a microprocessor, an operating system, an application, which together constitute a whole device subject to the safety and certification procedure. And the question is: how do you intend to implement this requirement, which is to publish information that allows you to identify the device used in the layer of electronic identity card? In other words, is this solution introduced by you now compatible with the regulation of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u143	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u144	This is a very detailed, technical question and I would also ask for a written reply. To my best knowledge, these provisions that we are currently introducing are in line with EU rules, but in the light of such a detailed technical question, I would like to have the opportunity to reply in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u145	Okay, Minister, I'll write it down. And Mr. Senator... Mr. Marshal Sewerinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u146	Thank you. My question is whether the contested law is compatible with the European Union's Personal Data Protection Regulation, GDPR.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u147	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u148	Yes, of course, it is in accordance with the GDPR regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u149	Minister, now I have a question. Well, it seems that the identity card in this form now is a simple thing. But already 20 years ago, Israel put in evidence such chips that were able to indicate whether someone was being punished or if someone was dangerous, that is, that type of data had already been entered at that time. We didn't go that way, and that's good. But please tell me: are these telemetric data that are collected, i.e. facial image and fingerprint, destroyed after checking that the same citizen receives evidence, or are they collected somewhere? If they are collected, on what basis? And how are they protected? Are they destroyed, or are they collected? This is important, from my point of view.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u150	As I said, the bill provides that in a situation where someone receives an I.D., this data in the register of documents is simply destroyed. So that they are removed from that register created for collection within 90 days after the personalisation of such an identity card. [[So they're not collected somewhere in the database...]] No. [[...for other purposes, like police, for example, because police are looking for fingerprints from the perpetrators of various crimes. This isn't gonna be used for this?]] Of course. After these 90 days, no. [[Thank you very much. No, no, but they shouldn't be used in these 90 days either, because they're only used to identify...]] Yes. [[That's what you're saying.]] Just to identify a person, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u151	Thank you. I have no further questions. And no further questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: Thank you very much.]] We'll proceed to the... I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Krzysztof Breja. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. For the record, Senators Ryszard Świlski, Aleksander Szwed, Mariusz Gromko, Maciej Łuczak, Adam Szejnfeld, Janusz Gromek, Janusz Pęcherz and Wadi Tyszkiewicz submitted their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Emissions Trading Scheme and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 369 and the Commission's reports In prints No 369 A and 369 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Maria Koc, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, I would like to present a report on the joint committee meeting held on 28 April 2021. After considering the bill, both committees request that it be adopted by the High Senate without amendment. Ladies and gentlemen! High Senate! The draft law, the Act on the Emissions Trading Scheme for greenhouse gases and some other laws, aligns Polish law with European Union legislation on the rules governing the operation of the greenhouse gas emissions trading system in the years 2021 to 2030. This is a proper complement to the transposition of the 2018 Directive, Directive 410. Thanks to the changes that will be introduced in this Act, Poland will be able to benefit from the EU Modernization Fund, which will be used to modernise the energy system and improve energy efficiency in the European Union countries. In support of the European Union's energy and climate policy objectives by 2030, the European Commission has set up a new instrument to support the modernisation of the energy system and the improvement of energy efficiency in the European Union countries. This new instrument, the Modernization Fund, will primarily serve those countries where GDP per capita is less than 60% the EU average for the whole of the European Union for 2013. The facility will be supported by the Modernization Fund operating in the years 2021 to 2030. This fund represents 2% of the sales the overall pool of emission allowances under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. The money from this fund will be distributed between the 10 countries of the European Union from Central and Eastern Europe and the largest pool, because more than 40% These funds will be received by Poland. The most important solutions proposed in this law are, ladies and gentlemen, the procedure for applying for support from the Modernization Fund. It provides for the submission of applications for funding, the conclusion of project contracts, as well as the documentation of the implementation of the project, the progress achieved in its implementation. In addition to the Modernization Fund, which will be operated by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, a consultative board will be set up as an advisory and social body in which representatives of various departments will sit. It will also work with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management to identify the areas of action that are most needed at the moment to implement the most effective investments in terms of energy transformation. It is estimated that the funds under the Modernization Fund, which may be available to Poland for the years 2021 to 2030, i.e. 20 billion PLN, up to 20 billion PLN. These measures may still be made available to beneficiaries this year. In addition, there are amendments to the Act, such provisions which adapt Polish legislation to EU law and eliminate from the national order the rules governing the allocation of emission allowances. High Senate, none of the senators have tabled amendments to this law, the Legislative Office has submitted 5 comments, including 3 proposals for legislative amendments. None of your senators took over. Therefore, a proposal for adoption of the law was made without amendment. And that's how the bill was passed, without amendment. And both committees, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, request the High Senate to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u153	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Jolanta Hibner, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday was the meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. At the meeting of the committee, a law on amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme and certain other laws was examined; Seym printing No 1008, Senate printing No 369. The committee was attended by a representative of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, undersecretary of State Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński. The Ministry's representative presented the basic elements of the law, such as the fact that the project was prepared on the basis of delegated acts by the European Commission. The Act implements the last elements of the ETS Directive. The funds for Poland for the Modernization Fund will amount to about PLN 20 billion. Management of the Modernization Fund was transferred to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, based on the experience of this fund in spending e.g. Cohesion Fund resources. The appropriations will be spent by prior adoption of priority programmes. The Senate Legislative Office proposed amendments at the meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, which were taken over by Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. Senator Jacek Bury made an additional amendment. This amendment states that 100% the funds obtained from the auction of emission allowances will be transferred to the account of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. All amendments were accepted, they were only adopted by a majority and the law itself unanimously 21 votes in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u155	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. No such questions. Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński would like to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President. High Izbo! Very briefly, because Senator Koc and Hibner very well summarized the position presented by the government during discussions in committees. I will just stress how important this project is to carry out the transformation of our energy. The implementation of the modernization fund will allow the implementation of several key projects for the transformation of our energy and for improving the quality of life of Poles, to enable the necessary investments to be carried out. With regard to the amendments proposed in the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, I would say that we believe that these amendments suggested by the Legislative Office are not needed. The text as it stands, proposed by the government, is very clear. Amendment 2, regarding the allocation of funds... It seems that this wording does not meet the intentions of the applicants. This is why we propose to reject these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u157	Thank you, Minister. Now there will be questions for you. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. There you go, Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u158	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, does the government have a concept of how to protect energy and the economy so that the former does not knock down energy prices for domestic budgets? I estimate, carefully, that in 2030 there will be at least a doubling compared to 2020, so I think And the other one, i.e. The economy, and I come from this economy, didn't emigrate from our country because of the loss of competitiveness? This would be a loss of thousands of jobs already in 2030. And my second question. How much did the government sell in 2018 Have we complied with the European Union's obligations to use them to support the development of low- and zero-carbon energy? Why am I talking about this? In Gorzów Wielkopolski, Minister, the Kawka programme led to the situation that the town of Gorzów, 130 thousand people, is no longer a black dot on the air cleanliness map and is green today, and you have choked this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u159	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u160	Thank you so much for these questions. With regard to the issue of energy price and the competitiveness of our economy, of course energy is crucial for the competitiveness of our economy. And that is why we proposed a very ambitious programme for the transformation of this energy towards a zero-emission energy system in Poland's energy policy by 2040 so as to actually reduce the impact of CO2 price in the ETS on the cost of energy and ensure the supply of energy at competitive prices for our industry. This is one aspect of this competitiveness. The second aspect of this competitiveness is linked to the call we make in the EU for protection against the so-called phenomenon. carbon leakage, i.e. a competitive imbalance for exporters of products to the Union. Because it is very good that we will reduce emissions in the Union, but if this is to increase imports of products produced in other countries in the world under conditions that are very often much worse in terms of the environment, it makes no sense. And that is why, as a government, we support the idea of introducing a frontier carbon tax that will allow CO2 costs to be taken into account also for imported products and thus align competitive conditions for imported products and products produced in Europe, thus enabling our environmental objectives to be actually achieved, i.e. the overall reduction of emissions and the reduction of carbon footprint of products consumed by us wherever they are produced. As regards the use of funds from the current ETS phase, we report in line with EU requirements on the use of auction funds. We need to prove that we're using at least 50%. auction funds. These reports are available online and if the senator wishes, we can indicate in writing where they are... [[Thank you very much. I just wanted to ask you this, Minister.]] Then we'll put it in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u161	Thank you. Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I add to this request to indicate the amounts requested by Senator Komarnicki, especially since it is so important that, as we understand both from the speeches and from the text, and from the justification, the Modernization Fund is to generate about PLN 20 billion for these projects, which are so important for Polish electricity and of course for the climate, etc. And reports say that we have so far received little less revenue from the sale of allowances to the state budget every year. I have the information here that in 2019 it was 11 billion, in 2020 12 billion, and this year it is going to be 17 billion. By 2030, it is estimated that there are some 160 and 170 billion different influences, and in the case of the Modernization Fund, we are only talking about 20 billion, I understand, not annually, but by 2030. So there is a question of what's going on with the rest. Here's another thing. I'd like to ask for a consult. What is the idea, why is this consultative council called for, since it is known that, in fact, in each of these ministries which will designate persons to the consultative board, these persons will be dealing with these matters within their scope of activities in ministerial positions anyway. But if so... well, I don't necessarily deny it, but I'm a little surprised by the institutional appointment. Because the fact that people meet from time to time in their ministries do this every day doesn't surprise me. However, the fact that it is being made into an institution of the state governed by the law surprises me. But if so, I would like to ask whether this will also involve some costs, so whether members designated by a certain ministry will receive some apanasia from this, say, salaries, diets... If so, perhaps the Minister could give some estimates. 'Cause they had to be done under the OSR. What would be the personal costs of the activities of such a consultative board? And one last question. I would like to ask what kind of estimate of needs you have, globally, let's say by 2030, because here we have a deadline related to the law and with the directive, so that we modernise Polish energy to achieve the objectives set by the European Union. And so are our goals, because we are members of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u163	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u164	Thank you very much, Senator. As for these amounts, as I promised Senator Komarnicki, we will provide written information on where these reports can be found. As regards the remaining revenues from auctions, in addition to those included in the Modernisation Fund, which are regulated by some specific provisions of the ETS Directive, there are envisaged support schemes, on the one hand, for energy-intensive industries of 25% the funds obtained from these auctions, on the other hand, the support system for energy transformation. We are currently working on a proposal for an appropriate law to develop another 40% these revenues are precisely for energy modernisation. As far as the consultative board is concerned, the law does not provide for any additional remuneration for its members, so it is as the senator said, that they do it within their responsibilities, those are the people who deal with these issues in the various ministries. As far as needs estimates are concerned, details are available in PEP and in terms of calculations, we will, of course, seek to take into account the specificities of individual instruments in the programming of spending these measures and plan to demarcate between actions undertaken under the Modernisation Fund using the instruments of cohesion policy, under the Energy Transformation Fund I mentioned, and other instruments available to ensure complementarity between actions undertaken and avoid duplication of programmes. [[If the marshal would allow it, I'd like to ask, because I didn't ask about these...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u165	Okay, Mr. Senator. Briefly, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u166	Not without a Cossack, I asked about these estimated costs by 2030 in order to achieve European objectives, as the Directive requires at least 50% revenue was spent on these purposes. I would like to ask you what percentage of the modernising fund will be spent on these purposes. How do you expect it to be?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u167	100%. [[100%.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u168	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u169	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In Poland we have the highest energy prices throughout the European Union. At the moment, we know that we also have a record price for CO2 allowances. Minister, how will this affect the next energy increase, and how will it affect our economy? I realize that... the government predicted that the price of emission allowances would go up, but in these projections, the price of 50 euros was only expected in 10 years. What's going to happen to energy now? That's one question. And the second question is to reduce CO2 pollution. We predicted that by 2030 there would be a 30% reduction and other countries By 55%. Why such an unambitious plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u170	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u171	Thank you so much for asking. As far as the price of energy is concerned, I must clarify here that there is a difference between the price of energy in the wholesale market and the price of energy paid by the final consumer. In general, Member States opt for different policies in this area. There are Member States where energy costs are much more shifted to households, e.g. In Germany, it is. And much, much higher are the costs for the final consumer, for households in Germany, and much lower are the costs for industry. Thus, if we look at the final costs for the recipient, which consist not only of wholesale prices but also of other charges, e.g. distribution fees or other charges related to the operation of the energy system, it will be apparent that these prices for households in Poland belong On the contrary More like smaller ones in the Union. They may not be the lowest, but they are rather lower in the European Union. But of course, as the senator points out, the prices of CO2 emissions are a very important element in our strategy. And precisely because we see that these prices are going to rise, and we have been precipitating this in energy policy, we are proposing investments in a zero-carbon energy system, one that will protect us from further increases in CO2 prices. Because if the system is just zero-emission, it will no longer be affected by the rise in CO2 prices. That is why investment is so important, which will be implemented, among others. thanks to the Modernization Fund, the construction of this new zero-emission energy system. With regard to the level of reductions in the ETS, a Union-wide reduction level of 55% has been set for the ETS sectors as well as for the non-ETS sectors. And that's the EU target. This does not, of course, mean that in each Member State these reductions will be at this level. There is not yet a European Commission proposal on how this objective will be shared between the ETS sector and non-trade sectors. So it's hard right now to break down this goal between the Member States. But there is absolutely no... There is no translation of one to one of the Union's objectives into national objectives.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u172	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question about these funds collected in a specialized bank account, I understand. These are defined in the subsequent years in the amendment in a quota manner. Wouldn't it be safer to define them in a percentage way? Is this quota entry intentionally introduced instead of the percentage? And there's 100% in the amendment. measures. As I understand it, you do not agree to this amendment. The question is, why? Is there a danger associated with the assembly 100% ?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u174	Thank you, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u175	Thank you so much for these questions. These amounts are those related to the administrative costs of the operation of the Fund. That's what I'm talking about. to handle applications and to pay funds from the Modernization Fund, certain budgetary resources are foreseen to cover the administrative costs of the national fund. That is why we do not support this amendment, because it would mean that 100% auction revenues would be earmarked for remuneration, for administrative costs rather than for projects. And we want to spend this money from the Modernization Fund on projects. [[So, in short, this amendment is really pointless?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u176	Jan Maria Jackowski. There isn't. Mr Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u177	About the question of energy price... If, Minister, we compare Poles' wages to energy costs, then we will find that we have the most expensive energy in Europe.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u178	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u179	This is another measure of this impact of prices... And that is why it is very important for us to propose a path of transformation of our energy, which will allow us to maintain predictable, constant and reasonably low energy prices, because we know that our society has much less opportunities than e.g. German society in terms of the cost of such transformation. That is why it is so important for us to support with these different EU instruments, so as to ensure that this transformation is possible without being burdened directly by final customers in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u180	Thank you. Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question. a little more general, perhaps beyond the matter of this law. I would like to hear from you the information that you indirectly referred to when you spoke about the carbon footprint to be found in products that will come to us, I understand, from outside the Union, i.e. countries that are not. covered by the climate agreement. The information that came to my attention was that this part of the loan of the Fund for Reconstruction was to be covered, among other things. from taxes which will be imposed on products imported in this way. Do you have any knowledge of this and could you give me information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u182	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u183	This is, of course, a question which should rather be addressed to the European Commission, because it will propose what own resources to use to repay loans made under the RRF. But indeed, in Brussels, there are ideas to use the revenues generated by such an instrument as the carbon footprint border tax as an EU own resource to repay this debt.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u184	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you, sir. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki. Oh, for the record, the Minister has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senators Władysław Komarnicki and Adam Szejnfeld. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u185	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm double-inoculated, and we've got a good distance, so I'm gonna talk without a mask. Dear Marshal, High Senate! The aim of the EU directive, which implements this law, is supposedly to help European countries, of course, with our country, in energy transformation and in achieving climate objectives. And climate targets, ladies and gentlemen, must be implemented everywhere and by everyone faster, but also more effectively. We have less and less time to stop the spiraling droughts, floods, fires, water scarcity, the extinction of fauna and flora, food shortages and migration of the population, the phenomena which, unfortunately, all of you, led by us, are afraid of. Of course, this is extremely important also for Poland, because we are the fourth largest producer of carbon dioxide in the Union and we are increasingly suffering from climate change. We should have taken care of this case a long time ago, to be honest. The Act must improve the effectiveness of the emissions trading system in reducing emissions. To this end "I quote directly the directive "all revenues generated from auction allowances should be used to combat climate change. Not part of it, Minister, but all of it. The next Directive provides that transparency in the use of revenues generated from auction allowances is essential. So the public needs to know what these funds are spent on. The novel introduces a very important new tool, so-called. The solidarity European budget, that is so-called. Modernization Fund for countries with the lowest incomes in Europe, mainly for Poland, because Poland will receive 43% from this fund. , up to 43% its resource, i.e. Okay, look out! At least 20 billion for the next decade. [[Voice from the room: But...]] Gold. Not much? [[Voice from the hall: It's not that little, it's that gold, not the euro.]] This is... Oh, I'm sorry if I said Euro. This is a good solution and very much needed. The draft law also provides in principle for the creation of a new fund, in accordance with Article. 49 of the Act, because the second separate bank account of the national fund will be funded by PLN 10 million in the years 2020,2022, and in the following years, each year until 2030, by PLN 8 million. These measures are intended to come from the sale of emission allowances. Theoretically, these measures should be allocated to climate objectives, but nothing is more misleading. 49 indicates that these appropriations may also be made available in at least half for administrative expenditure. In my view, as an economic activist, there is a concern that the funds will not go to climate objectives, but will only generate administrative expenditure and will simply be consumed. Carbon prices have increased in recent years Okay, look out! By 350% and unfortunately will grow further, while Polish energy is still largely based on coal, 70%. The Modernization Fund is a huge opportunity for us Poles. By 2030, we can of this evil, according to us, of the Union Well, not according to us, but you get even 20 billion zlotys. However, this money must be spent wisely on such investments, Minister, not on such investments as Ostrołęka, where you spent almost PLN 1.5 billion, and not on photovoltaic panels for the Podkarpacie parishes, which have not even been connected to this day and have absorbed Okay, look out! $60 million. The Modernization Fund may be an opportunity, but I fear that it will be treated by you just like the Local Investment Fund, so that it will become a political tool to allocate funds between its own and, unfortunately, the consequences will be measurable. Because the fact that we have an increase in electricity prices, it is unfortunately yours, who rule today, wine, and it is an effect, and I regret to say it, your politics. The Modernization Fund is undoubtedly a great opportunity for the Polish economy and a chance that the negligence of recent years will finally be removed. In the case of this fund, we should draw attention to a number of elements which, without regional support, without regional consultation Without regional consultation! They will certainly not be implemented at a high level, and even it may be suspected that they will be passed back to their own and for their own. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to use the reflection of past years. Here, from this speaker, I spoke about it and I warned all the wise people who were eliminating the green energy, at the meetings of our economic committee, I strangled and asked: don't do it! Today we have an effect. That's why today I'm going to at least appeal: Minister, since we have a proven system, which was a coffee, and we have money. Then go back to it, don't be shy. It's worth running. The inhabitants of Gorzów Wielkopolski breathe clean air I wish this all to my country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u186	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed, Mariusz Gromko, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Jolanta Hibner, Halina Bieda, Adam Szejnfeld and Janusz Pęcherz submitted their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Although the senators did not make legislative proposals in the discussion, the committees made different proposals. I therefore ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Law and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 368 and the committee report In print No 368 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Energy Law and some other laws. During the procedure of the law, the Senate Legislative Office submitted 23 proposals for amendments, which were adopted unanimously by the committee. What does the Act itself concern? The Act amends the following areas. First, it enables the implementation of the provisions of Regulation 2015/1222 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 July 2015 laying down guidelines for capacity allocation and congestion management, including general voting rules for decisions on proposals. Secondly, it provides a legal basis for the recovery of electricity returned to the overhead contact line following the braking of vehicles and the collection of electricity by the charging point from the electric vehicle. Thirdly, it introduces an obligation for the operator to develop a system for the storage of traffic instructions and the operation of a storage facility. Fourthly, the President of the URE will be the competent authority to recognise the qualifications of persons performing work on equipment, installations and electrical networks acquired in the Member States of the European Union, the Swiss Confederation or the EFTA Member States. Fifthly, the President of URE will only approve the instruction if it meets the requirements set out in the Act. In other cases, the President of the URE will be able to call on the transmission system operator or distribution system operator who has submitted the instruction to amend it to the extent indicated by setting an appropriate deadline for that purpose. Sixthly, the President of the URE may withdraw the concession in the event that the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection has given a decision on the recognition of the practice as affecting the collective interests of consumers within the meaning of the Act of 16 February 2007 on the protection of competition and consumers. Seventhly, the legal basis for the functioning of closed distribution systems is introduced. After eight, comprehensive solutions are introduced for the operation and development of electricity storage units. After nine, changes are made to the rules governing the state's energy policy. After ten years, the tariff rules are refined and the place of publication of tariffs for the voivodship journal is changed to the URE Bulletin. After eleven, measures were taken to counter the unfair practices of certain sellers by prohibiting the conclusion of contracts for the sale of gas fuels and electricity outside the premises of the company. After twelve o'clock, it is possible to deal with out-of-court dispute resolution by those handling the Coordinator. After the thirteenth, the issues of property security were dealt with in detail in order to satisfy the claims of third parties which may arise as a result of the improper pursuit of the activities covered by the concession. After the 14th, the definition of the market participant and the criminal provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament were clarified. After fifteen o'clock, the seller of gas fuels or electricity was obliged to provide public access to the current legal situation related to the rights of the consumer of energy. After 16th, system intelligent software solutions are introduced, requiring installation by 31 December 2028 of remote reading counters connected to the remote reading system at energy consumption points of at least 80% the total number of energy consumption points in final customers. After the 17th, the supervisory powers of the President of the URE over the liquid fuel market are strengthened in order to prevent irregularities signalled by that authority. After the eighteenth, the identified loopholes in the law are removed and the rules that create interpretational discrepancies are clarified. After the 19th, a deferral of the validation of re-measurements in relation to COVID-19 is introduced. And after the 20th, the auction procedure laid down in the Act of 14 December 2018 on the promotion of high-efficiency cogeneration electricity is improved. As far as these areas are concerned, the senators asked about the smart metering system, because such electricity meters will be installed in our apartments. There was a raised question of GDPR, whether the data from reading these meters would not relate to sensitive data. Such counters already work, they are mounted, e.g. More than 400 000 such electricity meters operate in Wrocław, 35 million readings are processed every day. The benefits of this are not only monitoring and detecting electricity consumption, but also analysing data including qualitative parameters. So these meters are already working. 80% by the end of 2028 these energy meters are already to be remote reading meters. Such meters are also water meters, in this case also data are transmitted remotely and water consumption is read. The operation related to energy meters will cost us about PLN 7 billion, but it is expected that the benefits we will gain will be PLN 11 billion. This will improve the quality of electricity and increase security of supply. I think that's the main purpose of us having these counters. The second point was the issue of concessions. Art. 38 of the Act will be read as follows: "The grant of a concession may be conditional upon the applicant's lodging of a property security to satisfy claims by third parties which may arise as a result of the improper pursuit of the economic activity covered by the concession, including environmental damage.'. That's the mouth. 1. those paragraphs relating to this Article are 18. The Minister explained what it would be like. For more important things like this, it's still... The legal basis for electricity recovery shall be established. These are railway vehicles, i.e. popular trains, as well as the metro. Trams and trolleybuses will also be covered. These vehicles will give up some of the energy generated by the engines to the grid during the test room and will be accounted for. That's it. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted with amendments that we voted on at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u188	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. [[Senator Swed has a question.]] Senator Swede has a question. There you go, Mr. Senator. Senator Swed asks a question remotely. [[Voice from the room: You can't hear him...]] Thank you very much. There are no more questions, so thank you, Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u189	There's something else I'd like to add. There was a raised case of the program "Kawka" which is most often operated by Senator Komarnicki here. I would like to point out that this programme was in force or was implemented in the years 2014 and 2020 and the budget of this programme was PLN 120 million. It just worked. I say: only to replace 34 thousand solid fuel boilers with the number of boilers that were powered by these fuels, on a national scale of 3 million. So this program was so miserable and we didn't go back to that program. Now we have the Clean Air program. I will only give the last figures: the applications submitted in this programme are 244 thousand, and it has been in force since 2018; the amount of funding is PLN 4 billion 334 million. The entire programme in figures is PLN 103 billion, including funding over PLN 60 billion and the rest will be in the form of loans. So if this program succeeds and we bring it to an end, then with contaminated air we should no longer have to deal with in Poland. With contaminated air we will no longer have to deal with in Poland, the cities will be clean. I'm watching it in my town, in Rybnik. About 3 or 4 years ago, seymical resolutions entered into force, which caused that there was a time frame for replacing these furnaces, those boilers that caused these pollutants. And by 2028, all solid fuel boilers that do not meet Class 5 standards will be eliminated from use. All we have to do is make sure the city's bounty hunters keep an eye on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u190	Thank you, Senator. But it seems that Senator Swede has recovered the call... [[He got his speech back, didn't he?]] So here you go, Senator Swed is asking a question remotely. [[Voice from the room: He didn't get it back.]] There's a picture, there's no voice, Mr. Senator. [[There's no voice.]] [[Voice from the room: Let's read lips.]] [[I can't do that.]] We'll wait a little longer. Are you the senator? The Swede can hear me? [[Voice from the hall: He hears, we don't hear.]] Oh, he can hear, we can't hear. Mr. Senator, unfortunately there's no connection and we can't hear it. [[He's with the senator for the mig...]] You're gonna ask the senator's questions individually. Thank you very much. [[In writing.]] [[Voice from the room:... He will call the rapporteur.]] Okay, okay. There are different possibilities. Don't multiply them anymore. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Piotr Dziadzio like to speak on the bill under consideration? You may, but you don't have to.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u191	I just want to thank Senator Piecha for the performance, the full performance... [[Minister, because there are questions for you, but I would like to ask you for a speaker.]] Then I can thank you... So thank you very much, Mr. Senator, for the full presentation of the bill. I think that the senator presented all the most important elements that characterize the amended Energy Law. And now I'm listening to the questions, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u192	You're welcome. Senator Adam Szejnfeld came forward to ask questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, a market that regulates e.g. Today's Energy Law, which is specific, is practically characterised by the functioning of oligopoly, and in some respects even a monopoly. Well, as far as the electricity market is concerned, it's pretty much about 70, 75%. the market has 4 companies, the Treasury companies, and as far as gas is concerned, the overwhelming majority of the market, because 80% It has one company, which is PGNiG. Of course, if we say it's 80%. or 70% That means there are other companies in this market. These are not mostly the property of the State Treasury, but private, of various capitals. This preamble, this introduction, is needed to formulate the question I want to ask about the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4c. If I remember the contents correctly, he's the one who introduces... I asked that at the committee meeting, and I got an answer that, to be honest, calmed me down. Yeah, but then, after a thorough reading and asking about this recipe, it turned out that calming was kind of too hasty. That's where I want to hear what it's really like or what it's supposed to be. This provision prohibits the conclusion of distance contracts. Well, no one needs to be reminded that we have the 21st century and we have distance contracts, i.e. online, with a whole range of security features, digital signatures, etc., that's normal. If it were to be that the contract could only be concluded if only at the company's headquarters, because this is what is written in this provision... It is not enough that the contract concluded outside the company's registered office is not to be valid by law. The question is: will contracts be allowed to be concluded outside the company in the sense that at a distance or not, only in the premises? If the latter option is appropriate, it means that we will monopolize the market even more strongly here, push or destroy competition, smaller companies, weaker ones. I would like to say that, even in this segment, which is very interesting, very developmental and necessary for improving the climate, for energy, etc., that is, in the Prosumer Energy segment, this is a distributed market. These companies do not have offices throughout Poland, their facilities, etc. What's it really gonna be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u194	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u195	Dear Senator, I answer the question: over the phone and the Internet will be possible. That's one thing. Second thing. At a distance, it's... Outside of the company, we understand... Maybe. First of all, distance and everything outside the company's premises are two different things. And I unambiguously confirm that over the phone and over the Internet, which is a natural process, as the senator said, it will be possible. This is clearly written in this article. [[Thank you very much. We'll see if life can confirm that, because there are still doubts about this record.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u196	Thank you. But in person, only at the company, right? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Yes, personally only in the company.]] Now you ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki:
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. My first question, Minister, is: what will it look like, of course, from your ministry's point of view, is profiling protection? Will distribution system operators somehow control this knowledge resource and will they delete it after transmission to the central system? Will the government only be in one place, or will it be in a few other places? My second question is, Mr. Minister, if I may, I'm going to ask for written information. What does CO2 emissions and revenue of the state budget look like at the moment? If you don't mind my asking, I'm asking you to answer in writing because I'm not accusing you of having all this information on you. My next question. Why in the 21st century energy law still does not provide for the possibility of digital contact e.g. with an energy company? Why does energy law not provide for the use of digital identity cards or trusted profiles? It's common knowledge, isn't it? And my last question, Minister. Intelligent development is an obvious challenge of today's times, of our times, we have the 21st century. And that will not change, we will have more and more such solutions. To me, these are the elements here. First of all, it's about consumer protection. There can be no such situation, and theoretically it is possible that it will occur e.g. the data leak that will be collected. After all, there will be data on almost all companies and almost all Poles. The second element: I believe that this must be such a solution that the consumer will be able to observe what costs he incurs at a given time. He will decide whether he can afford more at the moment or not, Minister. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u198	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u199	Mr. Senator, I'm answering the first question. The distribution operator will collect data and transmit them to the market information center, and only from there will it be available. That's the bill. Yes, as far as CO2 emissions are concerned, we will, of course, give this reply in writing. And another thing. All this... Maybe. The bill doesn't prohibit... [[Voice from the room: It's about contacts with companies.]] Yeah, yeah. The Act does not prohibit electronic contact and is, of course, allowed to do so. This will in no way be a threat to the development of smart meters and the implementation of this law. Consumers will know everything here, including what energy companies offer, so they will have access to the full offer that companies are preparing for customers, consumers. Of course, having access to the data we are talking about right now, it will be easier to provide such information to the recipient, because we will actually know that energy companies will know what type of information they are going to use. it is the consumer. Therefore, this information will be intended for the consumer and the offer prepared to improve his comfort in using the services of energy companies. [[Minister, one sentence. Excuse me, I have to ask. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u200	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u201	I'd like to ask. One sentence. What about that leak of information I was talking about? Doesn't the consumer have to worry about that? 'Cause that covers the whole country.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u202	Absolutely not. It is a completely secure, secure system that will be controlled by PSE. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u203	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed. [[Senator Swede is working on...]] [[Don't be so witty anymore. An older man and such...]] Mr. Senator, I'm afraid we can't hear you. [[But he doesn't want us to listen to him.]] Senator, please refrain from such comments. [[But this is the third time we've been together, Mr. Marshal.]] All right, we'll try to get through to the senator later. Are there any more... [[This is the last person...]] Oh, he's the last person to ask a question. Well, maybe we should wait a little longer. Is Senator Swede able to connect with us? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Let's move on to the next question, Mr. Marshal.]] Senator, we can see you, but we can't hear you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mr. Marshal, let's drop it.]] [[Voice from the room: Let Senator Swede go to sign.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Senator, I'm afraid we can't hear you. I therefore close the list of questions. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal Borusewicz was also so ambitious.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to a question asked by Senator Władysław Komarnicki. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki. [[Mr. Marshal, can I not wear a mask? This is a safe distance. May I?]] I think we've accepted the rule that everyone's wearing masks. Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but we don't make such exceptions. We do not want to set a bad example, and this goes all over Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u204	Sure. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Senate! We are all interested in energy issues, above all as consumers. Whether we want it or not, we all use it every day. In fact, we're kind of addicted to energy. The world is so formed that it's hard to imagine life without it. Therefore, the bill under review today is extremely important, important. It should be preceded by a broad discussion on the whole energy policy of our country. In my opinion, we should already develop our energy policy for at least the next decades. Why am I saying this? I mean, honestly, we've made a lot of omissions over the last 30 years, and today we're paying a terrible price in the form of high bills. It's been 30 years. Something that raises my legitimate concerns is the issue of protecting information about citizens. You reassured me, Minister. I'll hold you to the fact that there won't be any leaks, although lately these leaks... I'm not gonna look like them because I'm not mean, but we know they happened in our country. This is extremely important information, they should be protected to the greatest extent, covered by secrecy. I have spoken of this several times, Minister, because this is a very important matter. Of course, I will support this law because it introduces regulations that are needed and required by European Union law. Although this is implemented a little too late, I always say that it is better late than never. The Act adapts Polish regulations to the requirements of EU law. Many changes are aimed at strengthening the position of the consumer, which, of course, I support. I think it's very right. The Act provides for the implementation of an intelligent charging system and clarifies the way in which smart meters can be installed by at least 80% of consumers by 31 December 2028. Finally, we will be able to account for energy costs according to actual consumption and not, as has been the case so far, according to forecasts. I'm a consumer too. Intelligent software is also an excellent tool for future energy management. This will also be extremely important during the energy transition. And here I would like to appeal to my previous speakers. I'm calling on them to get some knowledge from those who have it. Because what's with the smart meters? So that in time you can just manage your energy consumption. The Act increases consumer protection. A central energy market information system will be set up to provide consumers with information tools and improve, at least theoretically, a change in the electricity or gas supplier. However, there is no question of abolishing price controls. The government is making all the changes to facilitate the functioning of consumers on the market. Well, this market, to be honest, it doesn't really exist. In his question, Senator Szejnfeld pointed that out. Indeed, the changes that have been made could result in the public's access to better services and energy at lower prices, although we will still have some kind of bang after the implementation of the law. Once you enter the store, you will find that on the shelves is empty, that the product is only one, and it is also expensive. This is not the end of this strange situation, because we are about to discuss the abolition of the stock market obligation in the energy trade. It'll be even less transparent and more expensive, even more expensive. In addition to the changes theoretically helping consumers, there are also several other points that are of course worth raising in this group. In terms of new energy storage regulations, there is a lot of good in this law. It's a good thing the power stores are finally gonna be settled. We've been talking about energy storage for six years. This technology will soon be crucial in closing the energy system based on renewable energy sources. We have 2 decades to carry out the transformation of the Polish energy system. We have two decades to achieve energy neutrality. For many, 20 years is a long time, but I, ladies and gentlemen, would like to point out that this only gives our children 50%. the probability that there will be no climate disaster. This is playing with the lives of our children and our grandchildren. That only gives us a 50% probability that the climate disaster is not going to happen. If the current government does not start changing our energy immediately, we will again lose valuable time and we will not carry out this transformation, which is absolutely Energy based on an atom will not be any magic wand. The transition to an atom doesn't solve all our problems. The next generation expects clear declarations of departure from coal, date and way of departure from coal from coal. How is the government going to decarbonise the heating sector? Careful estimates say it will cost about 40 billion PLN. Some say we'll pay ten times more. How do you want to replace the current heating infrastructure with more than 70% based on coal? What shielding programs do you propose to the miners? What's the plan to put out the mine? When is this supposed to be done? Because as senator of the second term, I've been hearing about it for six years. What's gonna happen to the transmission networks? Really, it turns out that any area of energy we touch, everywhere we need to make changes immediately. And that's not there, unfortunately today I don't see it from your side. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u205	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! 2021 will be a period of profound and serious changes in the energy sector. They were initiated by the so-called. a major revision of energy law. There have been major changes to the Energy Efficiency Act and the Renewable Energy Sources Act. The new legal framework will obtain energy storage, closure of the distribution system. The powers of the President of the URE will also be changed. The new rules will affect most of the energy market participants, trading companies in Poland. Energy transformation in Poland, as a colleague here He said this is a very important matter. We have a big opportunity. If we use Marshall's plan, To continue to have a competitive economy. Are we going in the right direction? There's a lot of evidence that we're going towards big monopolies. The potential of people, inhabitants will not be exploited. Let me give you an example of what is happening in Europe. In the North Sea, Germany is building wind farms based on private capital. They will also produce green hydrogen there. They're moving towards releasing the energy market. Swedes produce half the electricity from the incineration of waste. Besides, there are 3,000 incinerators in Japan, and electricity is produced from waste incinerators. We we cannot exploit this, we cannot exploit this potential, which is in Poland. Energy experts, among others Prof. Popczyk says that it is wrong to recognize energy issues in Poland, that the future is not an atom, at least at the moment, and not a gas, which will end in 10 years. I know gas can be replenished with green hydrogen, but it's all over. The European Union has been recognising this subject for a very long time, and that is why there is no natural gas in all of the European Union's objectives. The Germans are leaving the atom, too. These are also various suggestions for Poland. Mr. Professor. Popczyk speaks directly of electro-consumerism. He says that this will be the new industry of the economy in countries that want to bring the Green Deal into their lives that want to benefit from it. If we put it right in Poland... But here we need a discussion on this, a proper orientation. It can't be that the minister comes to the stand and says there will be six nuclear power plants, no discussion, no public consultation, no referendum. We know how nuclear and nuclear power plants in the world are built for a long time, such as in Finland or France. And they're based on this old 3K technology. I think the French and Americans will be moving away from this technology in the direction of combining atoms. Therefore, there is a real need for discussion on this issue so that we do not make this mistake so that we can use it so that we can continue to be a competitive economic country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u207	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will start by saying that, which is very important to me and very important to me, energy security is about the responsibility of the state, the state for the whole, but also the state for the citizens. When I became a MEP, I was quite quickly on the Committee on Terrorism, and one of the issues there was the release of individual countries from dependence on those suppliers who are located outside the European Union. This included, among others, the following: Russia and coal, but also Arab countries. I think that about government declarations, also today, it sometimes gets better, sometimes worse, but in general, I think it prevails among the declared good intentions. However, as far as action is concerned, it is quite the opposite. I share the view expressed by my colleague Senator Władysław Komarnicki, both during the previous debate and today, that we must rely on the belief that the government will actually carry out what it declares. If he says he's behind the woods, he doesn't cut them out, if he's behind wind power, he doesn't destroy wind power plants, those located in the south of Poland. Unfortunately, this is not the case most often. I would like to point out that some of the details actually show progress. I confirm what the Senator rapporteur said, that we already have. E.g. This is the case in Wroclaw, domination, a certain domination of meters, which are read electronically. On the other hand, however, the Minister is concerned that the Act does not prohibit electronic communication. So the minister says there's no ban instead of saying it should be a preferred solution. I was also pleased with this information, which appeared in the previous debate in response to the question of Senator Adam Szejnfeld, i.e. that's that 100% This appropriation is intended to cover specific projects, not so-called. internal consumption. But I'm still worried that the declarations won't go away again. As for today's energy policy of the government, I think it is, so to speak, from wall to wall. And that when it comes to ecology, it is treated instrumentally and verbally. As far as environmentalists are concerned... I used to argue with environmentalists sometimes, but not about ecology. I sometimes argued with young people about pace and cost, but never about goals. These goals, which were once pointed out in the European Parliament, extremely precisely, by former Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek, have unfortunately not only been achieved in the last six years, but in some elements we have even withdrawn. Today, the most important thing is to support this bill... Because I am in favour of this bill, which is the subject of today's debate, I am in favour of supporting it. And as my predecessors said, one of the most important elements is energy storage. But I would like those declarations that fall from the Senate speaker on this important issue to be implemented, not the other way around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u209	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Gromko and Gromek have made their speeches in the debate for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 377 and the report of the Commission In print No 377 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jan Hamerski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u210	I have the honour to present to the High House a report by the Infrastructure Committee on the Act on amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 15 April 2021. The committee meeting was held yesterday. The meeting was attended by invited guests, among them representatives of the Ministry of Finance headed by Minister Magdalena Rzeczkowska, who was with her colleagues, representatives of the General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways, the Chief Inspector of Road Transport, a number of other institutions, but above all were also representatives of the National Association of Road Employers, the Association of Employers Transport and Logistics, International Associations of Road Carriers in Poland, the Union of Polish Districts, the Association of Polish Cities. Ladies and gentlemen, the Act modifies the existing toll collection system by the motorway by abandoning the manual collection carried out by the head of the National Tax Administration and introducing 2 new modes of payment of the electronic toll of the motorway ticket and the charge charged on the basis of geolocation data of vehicles transferred to the KAS Electronic Charge Collection System. If you choose the latter method of payment, the user of the motorway will be obliged to install and run the appropriate device or application. The most important changes included in the novel are: the introduction of the obligation to pay tolls and penalties for failure to comply with motorway tolls; the introduction of new ways to pay tolls by motorway; the identification of the Head of the KAS as a body for verifying the correctness of payment of tolls; the establishment of rules for verifying the correctness of payment of tolls on light vehicles and the granting of powers to the Controlling Authority to carry out checks on the regularity of payment of tolls; the implementation of legal, organisational and technological arrangements for verifying the correct payment of such fees and the use of the electronic system for the construction of a uniform system for charging tolls on motorways with the possibility of including toll collection on concession sections. Ladies and gentlemen, during the discussion, representatives of these associations and senators took the floor, among others. Senator Rotnicka, Senator Hare, Senator Swilski. The questions concerned, among others: whether it will be possible to use these payments by people who do not always deal digitally with applications, phones and other means. And here, the response from the Ministry was unambiguous, it was a question, among others. Senator Rotnicka There will be tickets that can be purchased at petrol stations, and there will be talks with Polish Post, so maybe also in post offices. So it will not just be an ICT issue. Senator Hare asked, for example. for the protection of personal data in connection with this system and here also the answer was given In addition, it also sounded in the debate with regard to these geolocations, i.e. tracking these data. That these data will only be considered as necessary for the collection of charges. Senator Świlski asked about testing the first stage system for vehicles above 3.5 t and here the answer was that this testing is actually over, and the law is due to enter into force at the end of this year. The question has also been raised which European countries have made such efforts to launch this system in terms of charging tolls for cars up to 3.5 t. And here was the answer that we are the first country in Europe. Carriers. The carriers mainly focused, ladies and gentlemen, on the costs associated with the purchase and installation of geolocation equipment in vehicles. This is the cost of several hundred zlotys, here was the amount of 500 zlotys. Well, the minister answered that question and talked about the possibilities of tax relief, which would, as if compensate for the purchase of such equipment. At the meeting of the committee, two proposals were made: to adopt the law without amendments and to reject it in its entirety. Both of these proposals were voted, none of them received a majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u211	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u212	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, I would like to ask you about one element that raises the greatest controversy among future users of the system, i.e. data from geolocation. How will this data be stored? Who's gonna own the information? Do you know anything about the application and everything about security... [[Personal data.]] Yeah, personal data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u213	Dear Senator, as I have already mentioned, in general the data that will be used for geolocation, as if tracking the car, will only be those data that are necessary for charging. But I think the details... The Minister is in the Chamber, so you will allow the Minister to answer these questions in detail. Because as for the report, I think that would be all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u214	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u215	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Can you hear me now? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Yes, Mr. Senator. We're glad to hear your voice.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have a question. In line with the proposed revision, will the toll collection limit be set on the motorway sections concerned? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u216	No, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u217	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I invite Minister Magdalena Rzeczkowska, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! In addition to Mr Hamerski's statement, the rapporteur, I would like to draw your attention to the other elements that the law introduces. Namely, it introduces very important facilitations in the registration of heavy-duty vehicles. This is a reduction in data that are subject to or should be registered at the time of accession to the new system. This is particularly the issue of semi-trailers. Such a registration obligation would be a great burden for carriers. And the bill under discussion abolishes this obligation. An additional element is the introduction of more flexible rules for the provision of services by fleet card providers, which is also important for road users. But I think the most important thing that I would like to stress is the change that this law introduces is to extend the transitional period for users to adapt to the new system, especially heavy-duty vehicles. The current rules provide that the old viaTOLL system must be extinguished by the end of June this year, and that law introduces a longer period until 30 September. Failure to adopt this law will mean that the viaTOLL system will be extinguished by the end of June this year and the transition period will be very short because we are planning to implement, make the new system available at the beginning of June. As regards the question from the State, Senator Sekuła's questions, I would like to explain that as far as geolocation data are concerned, i.e. related to the transit of the vehicle itself on sections of toll roads, these data will only be stored in the National Tax Administration system in so far as they relate to the section of the toll road. Any remaining excess data, in the event that the application is switched on or on on on other sections of the road, will be automatically deleted from the system. In addition, every 3 months there will still be a sort of system scan, for security purposes, and so that the excess data that could possibly appear out there will be deleted. Geolocation data will be stored for a period of 9 months. This period shall be linked to the procedure for verifying the correctness of the payment of the levy by the General Inspector for Road Transport. This is also a period of 9 months so that, in the event of a dispute, the road user can explain the situation and that the data relating to the journey are still available in the system. The point is that the dispute procedure can be properly conducted, so that these elements of evidence are available. Other data that are stored in the system are registration data, data related to user registration to use the system. Among these data are personal data. These data correspond to the range of data currently collected for the viaTOLL system, there is no larger data scale here. This data will be stored for up to 36 months in the system, but in a situation where someone does not use the system. Because if someone uses the system all the time, then, you know, the data is like all the time needed to use this system. So then they are not removed. Of course, by the user, i.e. the person making the registration, they can be modified if necessary. And if the user occasionally uses the system, once registered and for 36 months does not pass through the area of Poland, does not use the system, there is no interaction as to these registration data, then they are deleted. A period of 36 months, such a long one, is therefore introduced, for example. tourists returning to the country after a long period of time did not have to register once again on arrival In a situation where they are a user of the toll motorway. Hence the time of this data retention. The data owner in the electronic toll collection system shall be the head of the National Tax Administration and shall be responsible for the protection of such data in accordance with the applicable rules and shall administer such data. Any access to such data shall be based on the laws and regulations in force. The rules of this system, individual provisions were subject to a GDPR agreement, i.e. the correctness of the protection of personal data, and there were no objections to these provisions. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u219	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u220	When I asked for access to the data, I meant above all the police. Does the set of users in the GDPR also include law enforcement authorities?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u221	The issue of data sharing by the head of the KAS for other services is defined by the provisions of the National Tax Administration Act, that is, if I remember correctly, art. 51 and its successive paragraphs. The principle is above all that the data are made available on request, i.e. in a situation of particular need. However, the rules provide for the possibility to share the data within the framework of, I say, the system is a system, i.e. such an exchange of data online, but also after the request, after agreement with a specific institution The police are foreseen in this catalogue and to the extent arising from the statutory tasks of the service or institution to which the data are to be made available. And that's the article that's in force, and now it's not being amended, the National Tax Administration Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u222	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm asking you a question about this data. Is the server that collects data on the highway owned by the KAS, or the state, or is Kapsch the owner? That's very important, because that's what security is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u224	The owner of all data, servers, infrastructure, is the administration, i.e. the head of the National Tax Administration, not the external company. This is a change from what is valid in the current viaTOLL system. Excuse me, I forgot to refer to Senator Swede's question as to whether there will be a toll limit on the episodes. Then if the marshal will allow it, then... Excuse me, senator. There's no such limit. The rates which he announces shall be determined by the Minister of Infrastructure in accordance with the competences. There's no such limit here, so... thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u225	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No further questions, so thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Magdalena Rzeczkowska: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Svilski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Seym Express runs into the best. The toll motorways law flew through the lower chamber of parliament like the French TGV. Yeah, I'd use that comparison. In fact, no one really knows why this is the case, what this hasten is dictated by. Once again, we are hearing about the public consultation that has taken place on this issue, but in fact, the traces of this public consultation are negligible. The government is talking about the introduction of a system that is so de facto not there. It seems that if the KAS were to present today any system that is currently being tested, it would not really have anything to present. Let me just remind you that the Germans who also tested such a system in their country have conducted these tests for two years. Previously, alternatives were presented, but today it really comes down to just one, which is an additional app on the phone. In no way have the issues of renting or purchasing specialized devices, such as OBU devices, been resolved. I will remind you that more than one million vehicles are registered in the viaTOLL system, and companies that deal with certified devices produce 200 units of these devices a day. That's one thing. Another question, perhaps more important. We haven't talked about her yet. It's the invasiveness of the geolocation system. In fact, only Poland wants to introduce this system, only Poland has decided to collect information about the location of drivers with mobile phones. Let me just say that there is no other country like this in the world. Even the Chinese don't want to introduce such a system, even they haven't decided to do so. The word "surveillance" is pressed against the mouth itself. And how can a Polish citizen be sure that this system will only be used to collect fees? That question has already been asked. After all, the way to punishing speeding tickets is very short in this case. Unfortunately, the citizen has limited confidence in you. Ensure that once the application is closed the data transmission will be disabled, the citizen does not calm down. What if the data transmission isn't switched off? The Polish state has already achieved one huge success by offering citizens the STOP COVID application. Social trust in state applications is, to put it mildly, I just said it. It's limited. I will consider two more points. Firstly, after the introduction of this system, KAS will be the owner of a lot of data, a lot of information sent in packages of information. A long period of storage raises questions that have already been raised here. What else will they be used for? Secondly, is a pandemic the best time to introduce such a solution? Is this the best time to burden native entrepreneurs, domestic transport companies with the need to buy equipment, new equipment? In my opinion, this bill is an imitation of good law. And I feel like most of you know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u227	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u228	In some sense, I will continue what Senator Richard Świlski said. Well, I believe that what is important in this law is indeed on the one hand the direction, and on the other hand the luckily extension of this period of vacathio legis until September, 30 September this year. Because it seems to me that too many elements have so far been passed on to such an imprecise and unconsulted, that it may turn out that this system is fictional or that it does not work, or that it works in a faulty way, which in summer would be an absolute disaster. However, in order for there to be no doubt, I am in favour of facilitating, of course, various charges and changing the operating conditions of our motorways, because during peak periods at these toll gates we are dealing with a real armagedon. For many years, for a minimum of five years, I have dealt with satellite systems, both Galileo and Copernicus. I know how these systems were built for Europe and what an alternative they were supposed to create for the American GPS. I have also witnessed serious debates about launching satellites, e.g. Spanish, purely transportable. I am therefore aware that we do not have any such power or technological capacity, nor do I have the possibility of operating safely in cyberspace, so that we can have a simple answer to those questions that have been raised by the senator or senator. In general, of course, I will sign the bill. I'm gonna sign it because it's in the right direction. But I am actually paying attention to those issues that have been raised and which are really important, i.e. for data security, the security of the system, its entry into force under conditions where this will mean that the system is reliable and actually works in a perfect way. And I would like to point out that from my knowledge, this is a task. technologically incredibly complex, requiring time, certain precision, consultation with various actors. And that's what I pay particular attention to. And finally, one very important point. I'm not afraid because it's hard to fear my own country when it comes to data collection. We know well what knowledge Google has, how knowledge Facebook has. I can add that practically every truck has probes, geo-recorders, they measure, they transmit information about used fuel, about break, about accidents, about various events, etc., etc. For me, it is very important that this system is leaked and used only for the purposes for which it was created. And at the end of that, I pay particular attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u229	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators: Sweden, Gromko, Gorgon-Komor, Godyla, Bubbles, Gavyd, Gromek and Komarnicki have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Gabriel Morawska-Staneck. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Magdalena Rzeczkowska: We do not know these conclusions.]] The Minister does not know these conclusions. Is it possible for the Minister to... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Magdalena Rzeczkowska: But they were submitted to the protocol.]] Oh, the motion has been made for protocol, so we'll skip it. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on the National Tax Administration. The text of the Act is contained in print No 370 and the committee report In print No 370 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Culture on the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on the National Tax Administration. It was a government bill. The Minister for Culture, National Heritage and Sport has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. The Act adapts Polish law to European Union rules on the introduction and transport of cultural goods to the European Union. According to the Act, the carriage of cultural goods which have been removed from a country which does not belong to the European Union and in which these goods have been created or discovered in breach of the laws or regulations of that State will be prohibited. For violating this prohibition, the perpetrator will face a fine or a sentence of limitation or imprisonment. The Sejm passed this bill... It did not raise any controversy at the Sejm meeting. The meeting of our Senate Committee on Culture was attended by Mr World, representative of the Sejm Committee on Culture. With us, the bill also did not raise any special controversy or doubts. The senators unanimously gave it a positive opinion. Minister Gawin is with us today, so if anyone has any specific questions about the bill, I'm sure the Minister will be happy to answer. I ask the High Senate to approve the attached draft resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u231	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Culture, National Heritage and Sport has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome. I invite you to the floor of Minister Magdalena Gawin, General Monument Conservation Officer, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to explain why strengthening the customs borders of the European Union is so important from the point of view of the trade in monuments. At the beginning of this Regulation, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union had information on the sources of financing for terrorist groups. There are three major sources: trafficking in human beings, trafficking in oil... And the third source of money for terrorist groups It is the trade in works of art, monuments, including archaeological objects. The point is that we should all strengthen the customs borders of the European Union. First of all, we are to ensure that Poland does not become a transit country, i.e. so that Poland cannot smuggle these illegally collected, stolen from museums or illegally excavated monuments. This amendment is, I think, very beneficial because it also equips us with legal tools, i.e. allows the punishment of persons who illegally export cultural goods from third countries which are not in the European Union. I would like to remind you that such a person is punishable by a fine, punishable by restrictions on liberty or imprisonment up to the age of 2. In the case of less weight, the perpetrator is fined, which is measured according to the degree of harmfulness of the act, the degree, I would say, the value of the exported object, the monument. The court may rule on the loss of the cultural good, although it does not constitute the property of the perpetrator. I'd be happy to answer all your questions. It seems to me that this is a very uncontroversial amendment and very necessary for implementation both in Poland and in other countries of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u233	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u234	It's a supplement to what the Minister said. Indeed, in 2015 and 2016, the European Union's biggest problem was the financing of terrorist activities primarily from the smuggling of works of art. What I'm saying is that the scale of this phenomenon was incredible. About 40,000 were transported through the Turkish border, especially from Syria a month... [[Disruption during the speech]] Very often... maybe we forgot about it today. The acts of vandalism that were presented in specially prepared films... Very often it turned out that this vandalism was for show, and the objects that were destroyed were de facto divided into specific parts and transported to various collectors not only in Europe but also around the world. I was hoping those rules would come into force faster. This has been limited a little bit, but only a little bit. The directions of movement have changed in terms of various monuments, to Europe or through Europe. At the moment, they often go to Europe from Africa. The implementation of this law is extremely important to us, extremely important. I stress once again: it is directed primarily at those who trade works of art that are imported to us from outside Europe. Of course, a separate problem is the sealing of Europe's borders for various criminal groups that export monuments beyond Europe's borders. This is a little bit of a separate problem. Once again, I would like to draw attention to these quite high penalties. They're not random. They are primarily designed to act as a deterrent on the one hand and, on the other hand, to give opportunities to various institutions, from tax institutions to prosecutors and courts, to prosecute terrorists. Another very important thing arising from my previous work in the European Parliament's anti-terrorist group. It is important to remember that terrorists of various ointments, with different goals, spend 5% on terrorist acts up to approx. 8% your budgets. Most of the money that comes from drugs, art smuggling, etc. is spent primarily on increasing the number of members of these terrorist groups, various center forces. They are unfortunately also very often financed by non-EU countries. It is important that, by working together within the European Union, it is not enough to block the possibility of such activities, because it is not possible to make them more difficult and, above all, to try to seal European borders when it comes to smuggling things that are extremely valuable to many, many countries, not just European ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u235	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. The text of the Act is contained in print No 373 and the report of the Commission In print No 373 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Władysław Komarnicki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u236	In accordance with procedure, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act amending the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems is a government project which was adopted by the Sejm on 15 April this year. This project entered the Senate and was transferred to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. At its meeting on 7 May, our committee, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, considered the draft and unanimously decided to adopt it without amendment. The Act will allow the application of Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 June 2019 on market surveillance and product conformity and amending Directive 2442/EC and Regulation EC 765/2008 and EU No 305/2011 (Official Journal of the European Union 169, 25 June 2019) in the national legal order. The Act in question entrusts the President of the UOKiK with competence to participate as one of the representatives of Poland in the work of the EU Product Compliance Network until 15 July 2021 and from 16 July 2021 appoints that authority to act as a single liaison office. As part of this role, the President of the OMC will be responsible for representing in the network the coordinated positions of national market surveillance authorities and authorities responsible for the control of products entering the European Union market and for informing about the national market surveillance strategy. Your Senate, the bill raises no objections, not even our legislators. Your Senate, on behalf of the committee, I request that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u237	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. Well, thank you very much, senator. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development, Work and Technology was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I invite Minister Anna Kornecka, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u238	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! The Law on the amendment of the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems adopted by the Sejm at its eighth meeting on 15 April 2021 serves to apply the provisions of Regulation 2019/1020 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019, as has already been said here, I will not repeat the entire delegation. The provisions of that Regulation in this respect relate to the Union Product Compliance Network, which is provided for in Article. 29 of that Regulation and of the single liaison office, the designation of which in each Member State of the European Union is provided for in Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Regulation and the drawing up of the national market surveillance strategy and its summaries referred to in Article. 13 regulations. The Regulation entered into force on 10 July 2019 but the provisions concerning the single liaison office will apply from 16 July 2021. The provisions concerning the establishment of the Union Product Compliance Network, the uniform liaison offices of which are members from each Member State of the European Union, shall apply from 1 January 2021. The Interministerial Group for the reform of conformity assessment and market surveillance systems has adopted a recommendation to the Council of Ministers to entrust the tasks of a single liaison office to the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Delegating the role of a single liaison office to that authority is part of the role it plays in the national market surveillance system. The President of the UOKiK is the monitoring body of the system and has the largest of all bodies creating the system of experience and competence in carrying out coordinating tasks and in cooperation at European level. With regard to its competence as a JUL, i.e. a single liaison office, the President of the OOKiK will refer directly to the provisions of the Regulation, which define in detail the tasks of the single liaison office. The natural consequence of this recommendation is the need to give the President of the UOKiK the power to participate in the work of this network during the period from the date of entry into force of the proposed act until 15 July 2021. The President of the OOKiK, starting on 16 July 2021 as JUŁ, will continue to participate smoothly on the basis of the provisions of the Regulation and carry out comprehensive tasks thanks to the knowledge of all the activities and decisions of the network undertaken before that date. Taking into account the powers of the President of the OMC as the monitoring body of the system, it was considered to provide the best guarantee for drawing up also a national market surveillance strategy, which imposes on the Member States Article. 13 regulations. In drawing up the strategy, the President of the OOKiK will apply the regulation directly, allowing him to respond flexibly to the changing situation in the market surveillance system. The other market surveillance authorities will cooperate with the President of the OMC on this matter by providing the information necessary for drawing up the strategy at his request. The role that the President of the OKiK will play in the system covered by the Regulation will be significantly expanded compared to the current one. From several acts of harmonisation legislation covering the marking of conformity, up to a total of 70 acts of Union harmonisation legislation. The Regulation also provides for an increased range of actions to promote compliance, raise awareness and provide guidance on EU harmonisation legislation and specific product categories, including products offered for online sale. In view of the need for the President of the UOKiK to participate immediately in the work of the EU Network on Conformity of the products, the date of entry into force of the regulatory provision, i.e. Article 2 2 of the proposed law, was determined at the date following the date of publication of the law. To the remaining extent, the proposed law will enter into force on 16 July 2021, i.e. on the initial date of application of the provisions of Regulation 2019/1020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u239	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. I will also ask if the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, Mr Tomasz Chróstny, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. We fully support that. This is an important change. Product safety and market surveillance are designed to protect consumers, so that we ask that these rules be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Gromko and Bladder have made their speeches in the debate for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act on the Protection of the Rights of the Buyer of the Apartment or of the Family House and the Developer of the Guarantee Fund. The text of the act is contained in print No 386 and the report of the committee In print No 386A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Ryszard Świlski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During Tuesday and Wednesday, i.e. today's meeting of the Joint Committee of the Budget and the Infrastructure Committee, we gave an opinion on the law on the protection of the rights of the buyer of the residential or single-family premises and the Developer's Guarantee Fund. This law was a government submission. The most important proposed solutions in this law are I would like to mention just a few elements of the contract between the buyer and the developer, clarification of the rules for the developer to enter into a contract with the bank in relation to the holding of the trust account, as well as the issues of the reservation contract. Of course, the essential element of the new quality in the context of the amended act is the establishment of a Developer Guarantee Fund, run by the Insurance Guarantee Fund. And this is the important change in the bill, and we talked about it a lot at the committee meeting yesterday and today. In view of this new quality in the Act, the developer is obliged to pay a contribution to the Fund in order to safeguard the interests of the proposed acquirer. The records adopted by the Sejm state that the maximum percentage to calculate the amount of the contribution paid by the developer to the fund is to be 2% in the case of an open trust account and 0,2% in the case of a closed trust account. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, I will now present the key elements of the joint committee debate. I would add that organisations interested in the bill were also involved in the discussion. Firstly, this element related to the interest rate used to calculate the amount of the contribution paid by the developer to the fund was discussed at the committee meeting. During the debate, various proposals were made to change the value of the interest rate. E.g. in the case of an open trust account, this would not be 2%, for example. 1% , there was also a proposal 0,5%. By analogy, the change in this percentage would also apply to closed account cases. This discussion took place in connection with information about the value of the developer market at present, with values falling from PLN 24 billion per year to PLN 55 billion, some even claimed that it was a government of PLN 60 billion. I am saying this because at the moment the values in question are derived from the information that the funds should actually appear in the Developer Guarantee Fund. The participants considered that to safeguard the interests of buyers, some 140 million PLN should be collected and the proposed percentages are therefore too high. And that was the first essential accent of the debate. The second component of the discussion is the bankruptcy of developers. Different numbers in this context fell. The Minister presented data prior to the entry into force of the Act, which we are updating today, i.e. that it was 149 bankruptcies at the time, and in the years 2012 and 2019 those bankruptcies were 103. The third important issue that arises during the procedure of the law and which actually led to the debate at the meeting of the Joint Committees on Budget and Infrastructure, in the view of the senators, is the unconstitutionality of the provisions that were introduced at the second reading stage in the Sejm The Constitution states that the Sejm is considering the draft law in 3 readings. In addition, it was claimed that the amendment introduced by this law and its scope were not in any way related to the subject matter of the law on the protection of the rights of the purchaser of the premises. It must be remembered and recognised that the procedure for 3 readings is a standard democratic rule of the rule of law. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, to conclude, the senators have accepted 14 amendments, including an amendment that cleans non-constitutional records. The combined budget and infrastructure committees recommend the adoption of a law with amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u243	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The President of the Council of Ministers has been authorised to present the position of the Government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Please, President Tomasz Chróstny, President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The draft amendment to the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Buyers of Housing and Family Homes and Developers of the Guarantee Fund is another very important step in terms of strengthening the Protection of the Rights of Buyers of Housing, securing the funds that are in principle devoted to these basic housing purposes, which are the result of savings and often involve capital generated for many, many years, sometimes only for one generation. This is an important step, which concerns the regulation of matters relating to contract protection and the conclusion of booking contracts, the fee which is charged by developers in this situation. It is also a matter of ensuring that, in the event of defects, normal defects and material defects, the consumer can effectively enforce, from the stronger, stronger side that is the developer, the developer, the removal of irregularities that have occurred at the premises that he is purchasing and whose construction is carried out primarily on the basis of the funds obtained from the buyers. We continue to close some gaps, we remove those that allowed us to carry out projects based on the funds of buyers without housing trust accounts. There are also changes to eliminate abuse of consumer confidence. We also increase protection through additional responsibilities on the bank's side, in order to supervise even better the tranches of funds which are directed towards investment projects to build housing on the basis of funds obtained from buyers. This important change also concerns the creation of a Developer Guarantee Fund. This is a fund to guarantee the safety of buyers, consumer safety, not only in the event of bankruptcy of developers, but also in the event of bankruptcy of banks, where the guarantees of BFG over EUR 100 000 may not be sufficient, and also in the event of significant defects not repaired by the developer or the cessation of works at the construction site for more than 120 days. Thus, it is a systemic element that significantly strengthens the buyer's position, the consumer's position towards the developer, the stronger side of the transaction. We ask you to welcome this project as a project that strengthens consumer protection and enhances the safety of real estate trading in the primary market. He creates a uniform standard of handling and securing measures, and this is therefore a project that is procompetitive. Whether the developer is a large developer or a small local company, the same standard of protection is in force and consumer measures are therefore particularly protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u245	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Arndt in remote mode. [[Voice from the room: Room 217.]] Excuse me, room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you about the article. 66. This is a controversial article that was reported at second reading in the Sejm by Members, which should not be the case. That's what the Senator rapporteur said. But that's not what I'd like to ask. I would like to ask if I understand the records of this article correctly. Is it so that if there is too much money in the Developer Guarantee Fund, these funds can be transferred to the Payment Fund? So would that mean that some buyers of the premises will finance other buyers of the premises?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u247	Please, Mr. Chairman. You can come from the podium, and you can come from there, as comfortable as you can.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u248	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Art. 66 does not concern the Developer Guarantee Fund, and I would like to say that it does not concern the funds to be collected in the DFG. In the DFG, funds, such as funds in the BFG, i.e. the Bank Guarantee Fund or the Tourist Guarantee Fund, are somewhat significant and can only be used in accordance with the purpose of the Act, cannot be used for other purposes. Art. 66, i.e. this change proposed by the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, concerns the transfer of funds from the Government Housing Development Fund to the Payment Fund. We are talking about the amount that may still be used for social construction this year, that is about half a billion PLN. This amendment tabled by the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology was precisely intended to bridge a certain gap in the possibility of increasing the funds allocated to social construction, to low-cost construction. Indeed, when we are talking about consumer protection, the Ministry pointed out that this is also an element that protects vulnerable consumers. Therefore, the transfer of funds from the Government Housing Development Fund to the Payment Fund... The development funds of the Guarantee Fund can only be used in the event of the collapse of the developer, the collapse of the bank, and the funds guaranteed by the BFG would be insufficient, as well as the capital to work, i.e. the significant disadvantages and the cessation of the construction site... If there are problems on the developer's side, construction is stopped, the consumer remains without housing for a long time or the developer has recognised the defect important, but for a long time he has not removed and repaired it, the DFG funds can be released so that the consumer can acquire an apartment on the free market, while the DFG representing the DFG will have a counterclaim against the developer in order to recover the funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u249	Thank you very much. No further questions? [[Voice from the room: No, no, yet Senator Bubbles has a question.]] Senator Bladder. Question, right? [[Question.]] You're welcome. Minister, come here, to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u250	Mr. President, I have a question. Is Art. 38 Today's Compensation Act refers to the buyer's situation as defined in Article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Eight? It is possible that my further action on the amendments will depend on this. Thank you very much. [[President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection Tomasz Chróstny: May I ask you to repeat it?]] You're welcome. Is Art. 38 on compensation relates to the buyer's situation as referred to in Article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Eight? The question is whether he will be able to withdraw from the contract or whether the developer will perform the task, e.g. He was removing the flaws with his money. [[In writing...]] Maybe the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u251	Mr President, if this question is too detailed, you can of course answer in writing, there is no...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u252	I think it's art. 38 and Article 38 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles [[Voice from the room: Microphone...]] Thank you so much. Art. 38 and Article 38 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying What is important in the case of Article. 38, that is the equivalence of benefits, that proportionality which must be maintained as regards the parties to the contract and therefore the consumer and the developer. As far as the article is concerned. 40, that's the whole art. 40 describes the pickup procedure that... [[But it's the lips. 8.]] Lips, to be exact. Eight? [[Yes.]] Here's what I'm gonna say: when it comes to removing... [[Can I...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u253	Minister, I think we're going to use the written response procedure. That is a specific question, and the President has the right to reconsider. [[President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection Tomasz Chróstny: Literally a moment... If I may ask the Director to speak on this particular subject...]] Oh, there you go. [[Because the answer to that question is determined by the Senator's amendment.]] Good. The director will answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u254	Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! As far as the article is concerned. 38 of the bill, it is he who clarifies what should be included in the development agreement. So in a situation where the development contract contains contractual penalties, those contractual penalties and interest which are reserved to the developer 'Cause there's interest on the money benefit, as we know. They must be equivalent. So if the developer reserves a contractual penalty and at the same time interest on the money provision, then the contractual penalty for the consumer, which the developer reserves in the contract... This is the freedom to enter into contracts, so that's why I'm saying in the contract... It must be equivalent, these claims of the consumer and the developer must be equivalent. And if we're talking about art. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Eight, he's the one with the protocol, the procedure for picking up the premises. And the point is that if the developer does not remove the defects within the time limit set in the paragraph. 7, then the buyer sets a new deadline for the developer to remove the defects. And only after that deadline has ended in vain can the buyer remove defects at the expense of the developer. So we're talking here in the last sentence or in the last part of the sentence about the so-called. replacement. So the two provisions are completely unrelated, in short. And they're two completely separate situations.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u255	Just supplementing... the acceptance procedure doesn't include interest sanctions. So here we are trying to create this mechanism of 3 terms in which the consumer has the right to expect the developer to remove the defect. At the same time, the consumer is also not entitled to a monetary equivalent. We strive to ensure that the defect is eliminated and that the premises are a full-fledged place for functionality and therefore without any normal or significant defects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u256	Thank you very much. The senator still wants to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u257	Yes. The problem is a little more complex. It's not exactly that one to the other is unrelated. It's just that the article... I had an amendment. I haven't reported her yet. That's what I'm talking about. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 make such a wording that if the developer does not remedy the defects within the time limit indicated under paragraph. 7 or does not indicate such a deadline, the buyer shall set a new deadline for the developer to remedy the defects, and after the unsuccessful expiry of that deadline the purchaser may withdraw from the contract. Right now, it's at the expense of the developer. And now the problem with this article. 38 is like... It is a question of whether we are talking about material or irrelevant defects. Because that's not exactly what I'm saying here. It's just a flaw, it could be both. And a flaw that doesn't matter is a problem. It's too small to withdraw from the contract. An important defect gives the possibility to withdraw from the contract also in accordance with the Civil Code. And here... Well, here's the problem as if it's not quite clear. That's why I'm asking you how much it's connected to the other. This will allow me either to make this amendment so that we can withdraw from the agreement, or leave it as it is, knowing that we will be able to seek a solution from the civil code. But maybe we can make an appointment, Mr. President, so that I can put it together, and by tomorrow we'll think about it. I can always withdraw this amendment tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u258	Unfortunately, the senator may withdraw the amendment. Just for the rest of the discussion. [[Yes, sir. Yes.]] [[Voice out of the room: Fall back...]] [[No, no. There's a committee meeting tomorrow...]] Uh-huh. [[Voice from the room: How will he fold...]] I thought he made it. Good. Mr. President, is there anything else about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u259	Yes. I would like to stress very strongly And it's still our position. . with regard to Art. 40 is the procedure... It took me a while to really investigate where there is a supposed cause-effect relationship here and how this one is. Article 2 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 goes to Article. 38. What's the procedure for picking up the premises? It is extremely important whether it is a common defect, whether it is an important defect. The first step is that the developer recognizes it. If he does not recognise it, he must go to court or, if possible, be the expert's opinion, but if he does, then the developer has a first deadline, a 30-day deadline to remedy the irregularity. After that time, if it is not removed, the developer shall set himself an additional reasonable deadline to remedy the irregularity. If it does not remedy the irregularity within that time limit, the consumer shall set an additional third deadline for the developer to remedy the defect. When that time passes, and we have a common flaw, a common flaw that does not have a significant impact on the functionality of other premises. Then the consumer at the expense of the developer can repair the defect that has been identified. We're talking about a replacement. If the defect is significant and therefore affects the functionality of the entire property, the whole building, also the functionality of other properties A good example would be, among other things. ventilation in the object Despite 3 deadlines, the developer has not removed the irregularity, then the consumer can ask DFG to release funds so that he can purchase the property from another developer, while DFG will recover funds directly from the developer. And here there is no interest mechanism referred to in Article. 38. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u260	Thank you very much. Do you still want to speak? [[I just have a request, Mr. President, that we may later explain why I am pleading for this.]] But I understand the senator isn't expecting an answer in writing? [[No, no.]] Good. Thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Director. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Janusz Bubbler.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are debating a law which, according to the applicants, is intended to improve the effectiveness and effectiveness of the protection of buyers of dwellings or single-family homes and increase the level of acceptance of the law on the part of entrepreneurs. According to the applicants, the current catalogue of measures to protect the buyer's payments does not provide him with adequate protection. The current law on the rules on the introduction of residential trust accounts and the rules on the payment of funds from these accounts is difficult to interpret. The Act does not regulate trading booking agreements, does not provide for sanctions for the developer's failure to apply funds to protect the buyer's payments, despite this obligation, and in the case of the procedure for the acceptance of the subject matter of the development contract it does not adequately protect the interests of the buyer, as it does not sanction the failure of the developer to remove the defects declared by the purchaser to the protocol. All those mentioned with reasons for the bill of imperfection are really one party to the contract, namely the buyer of the premises. There's no developer in this, which is probably the bad wolf that wants to devour the victim, and that's why the buyer needs to be protected from him. Solutions where only one side is protected and the other is not where one wins and the other is a loser are not good solutions to achieve the objectives. It may turn out that after some time we no longer have two sides, that there is only one left in the battle square, looking for the other to realize its plans. This is a little bit the case with the law discussed today, which can be voted in favour and I will vote in favour, but only after a few important amendments have been introduced to bring the parties into line with the rules. Of course, the security of the buyer of an apartment or a single-family home must be a priority of legal solutions for the state and this security will be secured by trust accounts and created a tool such as the Developer Guarantee Fund. But we also need to bear in mind entrepreneurs who, in a pandemic age, maintain jobs, create new and make a significant contribution to GDP creation. Meanwhile, the proposed statutory solutions will most likely impact small developers operating on local markets, most often investing in housing in the formula: building a single family house in a twin or serial building with their own resources and selling already finished buildings or apartments. The entry into force of this law will mean for them the need to conclude development contracts, the introduction of appropriate contributions to the DFG by the developer and the establishment of trust accounts. This situation will certainly force borrowing when own resources are insufficient, which may result in slowing down or retaining investments in small local markets. A very worrying legislative solution is the article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, according to which the developer will receive the last tranche of money from the bank only after receiving the discharge of the notarial contract transferring rights under the development contract to the purchaser. The last tranche is 10 and 25%. The price of the apartment, house and often is the profit of the developer. The transfer of ownership often takes several months, so this could lead to a loss of liquidity for the entrepreneur. It also seems incomprehensible to the laws that give rise to excessive position to banks. The Bank will be entitled to review the completion of each phase of the project or development phase. On this basis he will be able to include. require proof that the developer is not behind with the payment of taxes, social security contributions or contributions to the DFG, and whether he has settled monetary liabilities to contractors and even more subcontractors. The latter is particularly controversial, because in practice the verification that such payments have been made will be based on the statement of those contractors and subcontractors that they have received all payments. If the developer is in dispute with them, e.g. because they have failed to carry out their work resulting in a reduction in payments, they simply will not receive such a statement. As a consequence, the bank will refuse to pay another tranche from the residential trust account, which will affect the liquidity of the entrepreneur and prevent the planning of further investments. This law lacks the possibility for the developer to terminate the trust account contract, which is a violation of the equality of the parties, as well as contrary to Article. 730 of the Civil Code, which states that the termination of an unmarked bank account contract may occur at any time as a result of termination by either party. Further objections are raised by the provisions of Article. 48 according to which the basis for calculating the premium is the value of the payment made by the buyer to the residential trust account. The premium shall be calculated and then paid whether or not the deposit has already been made from the premises concerned. This applies e.g. a situation in which the developer agrees to terminate the contract by agreement of the parties, where the buyer's living situation has deteriorated or where one of the parties withdraws from the development contract. The contribution paid by the first buyer would remain in the Guarantee Developer Fund. This is also confirmed by Article. 48 (1) (a) 4, which explicitly states that the contribution paid to the fund is not recoverable. Is this really the case for the drafter of this law? Well, that's the question, we discussed it at committee meetings. If the demand for funds for potential bankruptcy is estimated at PLN 140 million, what is the purpose of raising nearly PLN 1 billion annually? Therefore, we propose in the amendment that instead of 2% it was a maximum of 1% in open funds and 0,1% for 0,2% in-house. In conclusion, I can say that the bill is very much needed. It guarantees the effectiveness and effectiveness of the protection of buyers of premises or single-family homes, but does not result in growth the level of acceptance of the Act on the part of entrepreneurs, which is laid down in the explanatory memorandum of the Act, gives too much power to banks, threatens the bankruptcy of small developers and the mastery of the housing market by large funds involving foreign capital. It is therefore necessary to introduce the necessary amendments to the Act, which will eliminate these risks. I will vote in favour of this law, along with the amendments, and I will make two more amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u262	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Chybicka, Mammoths, Gromko made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing, Senator Bober... [[Voice from the room: And Senator Bubbles.]] The senator is going to make an amendment, isn't he? He's putting it together right now. Okay. Signed? Good. Thank you very much. And Senator Janusz Bladder. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Yes? You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These arguments, which have just been put forward, are extremely converging, in fact very often result from the voices of entrepreneurs. I am referring here to the arguments that banks will now control who can run development companies and who can not, that competition in the market will be limited with all negative consequences, the issue of bankruptcy of companies, the removal of small and medium-sized developers from the market, the rise in housing prices. I have a whole document like this, ladies and gentlemen, a set of quotations on the 2011 Act. How they fit these arguments of the social side, developers, concerning these regulations, including this argument that under the previous law, in the context of which we hear today, it is a very well-functioning mechanism, developers as the Polish Association of Developers directly called the current legislation a legal bubble. I would like to make it clear that the Act is a law on the protection of the rights of buyers of dwellings or single-family homes and Developers' Guarantee Fund. Who and why? Because the weaker side of the contract, the consumer's contract on the line The developer is a consumer. And it is his responsibility to protect, also because the developer does not in principle carry out an investment project for his capital, but only carries out the project, risking the funds obtained from consumers. They are the ones who finance the project, and it is their resources that are to be specifically protected. Therefore, the changes that have been proposed in these provisions. With regard to these comments that have emerged, one might ask: why should the developer not be able to exit the housing trust accounts? Because consumers, when concluding a contract, decide that the funds will be carried out in a given bank. What if they're transferred to a bank that's about to fall? Who will be responsible then? That is why we want the last tranche, as it is today according to the rules, to be paid when it is possible to use the premises when it is possible to conclude a contract. None of us buy a car by paying for it before and only later by watching it or any other material object. We always want to check, verify first, and only then do we receive a given object when we know that it is functionally fully valuable. This is all the more so for such an important object, investments of many generations, thousands of Poles each year. This apartment must also be verified, we must be sure, and there must be this additional financial incentive for the developer to remove the common defects, to remove the essential defects, and not to put the consumer on a judicial path so that he can benefit, for example. with the right hand of the warranty. Hence, among others. also the control mechanism by the financial institution of the bank. So that we are aware and confident, also as public institutions, that the funds of the buyers are nevertheless protected against the risk of serious abuse that may occur with the developer. However, more and more often, each project is carried out in a special purpose vehicle separately to the one appointed. Therefore, buyers have the right to have this additional guarantee that the financial institution has verified, for example. there is no serious backlog of VAT that would burden the object that is financed by the purchasers. These are the elements that are really well thought out in the project and are designed to secure the weaker side of the contract. And it is undoubtedly not a developer. Therefore, we very much ask that these provisions, which contain solutions discussed over the years, which are very carefully thought out, indeed be supported. Because let us also remember that we are planning all of this not only for the year in which there is a pandemic, but we are really thinking about a decade and hundreds, if not millions of consumers who at that time will acquire a housing establishment for basic housing needs, and this protection just in case something is wrong... Because they finance a venture on the side of a developer who makes a very good profit, and the point is that because it's all at risk that the risk of activity is based on their resources, there was no tragedy of people, that sometimes the consumer stays with debt, with credit and without premises. These are too important investments from the point of view of consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, drawn up in Brussels on 11 April 2014. The text of the Act is contained in print No 376 and the committee report In print No 376 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alexander Sweden, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the 70th meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, which today has examined the ratification of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area. The purpose of the Act is to agree to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, drawn up in Brussels on 11 April 2014. It is worth recalling that the European Economic Area was created under the EEA Agreement, which entered into force in 1994. It aims to extend the internal market of the European Union to 3 participating EFTA States and to create a homogeneous European Economic Area. The EEA Agreement is based on common principles and equal conditions of competition and provides appropriate enforcement measures at judicial level. The Agreement guarantees equal rights and obligations in the internal market for natural persons and economic operators in the EEA. Since 1 February 2020, the European Economic Area covers 27 Member States of the European Union and 3 EFTA countries: Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. Internal market legislation is incorporated into the agreement and therefore applies throughout the European Economic Area. It concerns the free movement of goods, capital, services and persons in 30 EEA countries. The agreement covers horizontal areas such as:: social policy, consumer protection, environment, company law, statistics, tourism and culture. In order to ensure a level playing field throughout the European Economic Area, the agreement reflects the principles of competition and State aid contained in the Treaties of the European Union and provides for participation in European Union programmes such as research and education programmes. The meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union was attended by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk, who presented the bill, stressed very good relations between Poland and Croatia. It is worth recalling that Poland supported the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The consequences of this accession are also the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area. By supporting Croatia's accession to the EEA, Poland was based both on the provisions of the Agreement on the European Economic Area that accession to the European Union should take place at the same time as accession to the European Economic Area and on the basis of the common advantages that enlargement of the EEA brings to the Member States. The Agreement on Croatia's participation in the European Economic Area has been applied on a provisional basis since April 2014 and will enter into force officially after its ratification by all Member States. The ratified agreement will result in an increase in duty-free quotas for certain fish commodities imported from the Republic of Iceland. The agreement concerns matters governed by the law or in which the constitution requires a law, and therefore according to the article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (5) of the Constitution is subject to ratification with the prior consent of the Act. The Act will enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. The draft was adopted unanimously at the committee meeting after a very brief discussion. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I request the adoption by the Senate of a single attached bill on ratification of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, drawn up in Brussels on 11 April 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u266	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are no calls. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development, Labour and Technology and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, thank you for your vote. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda of the government. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the law on amending the law on municipal self-government, the law on district self-government, the law on local government and the law on public benefit and voluntary activity. The text of the Act is contained in print No 385 and the Commission's reports In prints No 385 A and No 385 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Joanna Sekula, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Education and Science Commission met at its meeting on 5 May and decided to adopt the attached draft law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u268	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Marek Komorowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u269	I'm visible, right? [[Yes. You're welcome, Senator.]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to present a report by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Act on the amendment of the Local Government Act, the Act on Regional Government, the Act on Regional Government and the Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering adopted by the Sejm on 20 April 2021. A meeting on the subject of the bill was held yesterday... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...Mazurek, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...Youth policy... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...President of the Sejm Committee of Local Government... [[Disruption during the speech]] During the meeting... [[Mr. Senator, I'm very sorry, sir, but we're having some terrible sound problems, and you can't hear your report at all. Can you turn off the...]] I don't know... I can turn off the camera... [[Can you turn off the camera, Senator? Maybe then the sound quality will improve.]] I turned off the camera, maybe it'll sound a little better. [[It's better now, yeah.]] As regards the course of legislative work, I will say that the Sejm passed this law on 20 April following the examination of the Senate project, Parliamentary printing No. 990, and the draft submitted by the Council of Ministers, print No. 1014. As a result... Well, print No 1036-A was prepared and the bill was passed on 20 April. The law generally regulates the appointment of youth councils by municipalities councils, county councils and sejmikas of voivodships and did not raise controversy among the members of the committee. However, in the course of the committee's work, the Legislative Bureau submitted 9 amendments and groups of amendments, representing 13 amendments in total. The work of the committee was also attended by representatives of the various sejmists and youth councils, who requested the adoption of the law without amendment. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport has adopted a law without amendment. However, after considering all the doubts in the vote, the committee of the local government abstained from voting. The amendments tabled by the Legislative Bureau were accepted. These amendments, in addition to one, are a little tidying up and clarifying certain provisions. The most controversy and discussion was triggered by a topic related to the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation, because in the passed law the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation increases by 2 representatives, just representatives of youth councils of powiats and representatives of youth sejmiks of voivodships. Therefore, it would be incompatible with the existing Council and Council, which will be set up as a result of the passed Law. The absence of transitional provisions in the proposed law led the local government committee to propose an article. 8a, which will give the President of the Committee the opportunity to adapt the composition of the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation within 30 days. And this is the issue that led the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to accept the amendments to the Act, despite the fact that all youth groups have applied for its adoption without amendments, the Minister also requested it. The act is expected by the youth community. With regard to what it regulates, i.e. youth advice, it can be said that they are consultative, consultative and initiative-based. Youth councils may submit requests to eligible entities for a resolution initiative, may address questions or requests to the mayor, the old-fashioned, the marshal. They can also comment on draft resolutions on young people and participate in activities related to the creation and implementation of government documents. So much for the report. At the end, the committee expressed its opinion that this might not lead to a longer delay in time, because next week there is a session of the Sejm and the committee hopes that these amendments, if eventually adopted by the High Senate, will also be adopted at the next session of the Sejm and that the law will soon be able to enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u270	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No questions. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The bill was introduced by the government and the Senate. The President of the Council of Ministers has been authorised to present the position of the Government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I invite Mr Piotr Mazurek, Secretary of State, representative of the government for youth policy in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the reports that have been presented here, I would like to say that the government's position is fully consistent with the position of the Senate's Education, Science and Sport Committee. We fully agree with Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski's speech, which indicates that the amendments, which have been proposed by the second committee in turn, are of a technical nature and have no real impact on the substance of the case which is regulated by this law. As regards the position of the local government committee, I must point out that the committee has adopted an amendment which is completely contrary to the law currently in force which governs the functioning of the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation. The Commission accepted that the President of the Committee on Public Use, who appoints members of the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation, must adjust within 30 days the composition of the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation to the shape of these provisions introduced by this law, i.e. representatives of youth councils of powiats and youth sejmiks of voivodships. In accordance with the applicable rules governing the functioning of this Board Because this advice has already existed since 2019 and the recruitment procedure has lasted for 4 months. I was gonna say And that's what I said at the committee meeting, and that's what the youth representatives at the committee meeting also said. It is at the end of this month that the election for the new term of the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation will begin. Therefore, the introduction of the provision at the time when the term of office ends and the new term of office begins in a few weeks' time, requires that the current end of the term be adapted to the provisions of this law, which is unlikely to even enter into force until this recruitment has to be opened and is simply absurd. Therefore, the government's position is that we very much ask the High Senate to adopt this position, which was adopted by the Committee on Education, Science and Sport, because it is rational, also as regards the facts and calendar. Here, too, is the second argument. This is a matter of calendar of youth councils, because these councils usually work in a cycle such as a school year or an academic year. Therefore, it is very important for young people who were present at the meetings of the two committees to come into force as soon as possible and that the elections of the new term of office can be prepared in the coming weeks in accordance with those provisions which this law introduces. The law was adopted by practically the whole Sejm: 446 Members voted in favour. They were also accepted in the Sejm by the interparty amendments developed by the parliamentary team. People from different clubs participated in this. We therefore believe that this law, which was primarily the result of youth work and responds to the demands of the youth community, no longer requires further amendments at this stage. As we have said many times, after a year there will be an evaluation and, of course, on the basis of checking how the law will work in practice, we are ready to talk about its further changes and the adaptation of its individual rules. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u272	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Joanna Sekuła. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u273	Minister, I have a question about the changes in the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. There is a statement here that the committee president will define by regulation the modalities for the appointment of the members of the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation and all the accompanying activities. Please tell me whether the rules on how to select candidates for the future Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation have been drawn up, taking into account the provisions of the revised article on how to select candidates supported by youth councils of municipalities, youth councils of counties or youth sejmikas. Did you do this simulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u274	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few As far as these specific regulations are concerned, first, there is a law, second, a regulation. This regulation regulates the specific recruitment and recruitment procedures for the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation. Of course, such a regulation has been in operation since 2019, because in 2019 the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation was established by law and then a regulation was issued clarifying the issues which were delegated by law to the Regulation. And, of course, this regulation, if this law is adopted by Parliament and signed by your President, will have to be amended, adapted to those issues that we have discussed here, i.e. the issues of youth councils of counties and young seymists. I still have to clarify that during the current term, representatives of these communities are, of course, in the composition of the council, only that they are not formally representatives of the youth councils of powiats and youth sejmies of voivodships, because until now the legislator has unfortunately not foreseen this possibility. Therefore, we are actually formally tidying up a state that has already existed in the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation. Thank you very much. [[But the Minister still hasn't answered...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u276	Thank you very much... [[I'm sorry.]] Thank you very much, Minister. The senator wants to ask. Stay, Minister. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u277	Since these amendments were made at second reading, you had to be in this parliamentary group on youth councils. Because it seems that this committee recommended these amendments. Am I right? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Mazurek: What amendments are we talking about right now?]] I'm talking about those amendments that were made at second reading. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Mazurek: In the Seym? That's right.]] So if these amendments were made, among others. by you, you represent a number of different organizations here, and it is difficult for me to say whether you are a representative of the government or a representative of the Committee on Public Benefits, of which you are a Vice-President or a Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation, of which you are a co-chairman, etc. I would like to know if, when recommending this amendment, which is very difficult to make such a choice, you have the idea of choosing the members of the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation, taking into account the possibility of submitting candidates from three levels of advice. Because I understand that in this case these young people are going to have to network, for example. in the form of networking of judges in the case of the National Courts of Justice. Therefore, I would very much ask for an answer. Because this action raises a great deal of concern for the youth council members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u278	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u279	Thank you very much. Honestly, I don't really understand the intention of this question, but of course I will answer the question literally as it was asked. The Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation already exists, has existed since 2019 and has therefore already applied this procedure. It's not like we have to rewrite a procedure that doesn't exist right now. In the procedure that has been applied so far, if, of course, we assume that this law will be adopted, signed, etc., will come into force, one thing will change. In addition to the existing entities entitled to support the candidates for this council, there are 2 new ones, i.e. youth councils of powiats and youth sejmikas of voivodships. And everything that has worked so far, i.e. the support of the youth council of the municipality, the support of a certain number of NGOs, the support of the Parliament of Polish Students, is still functioning. And so far, young people have been able to gather, in colloquially speaking, support for a certain number of youth councils of communes, so now it is possible to give such support also by youth sejmikas of voivodships and youth councils of powiats. So that the entire design of the recruitment exists. And it will be necessary for this construction, if, of course, the law is in force in the form in which it is the subject of the proceedings of the High House today, to add as the entities authorized these 2 new creations, which this law sanctiones. This will be done under this law that we are currently discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u280	Thank you very much. Senator Joanna Sekuła. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u281	However, Minister, I will be persistently asking you about this mechanism because you have abolished the limitation of the Council's number in this amendment. The Council, according to the previous entries, had 20 and 35 members, and now this number is unlimited. Therefore, I ask whether there is a mechanism in the draft regulation, which probably already exists, which allows the composition and number of the council to be chosen so that it can work and be effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u282	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u283	Thank you. Dear Senator, the regulation will be issued when the law enters into force. This is the order of legal proceedings. But in my opinion, it is important that this council has a number that, let's say, will be a compromise between the number of people who are able to gather in one place and process and representativeness. So far, there has been a problem that there has been this upper limit of 35 people and that there have been a lot of people who have not been included in the final council, even though they have had a good CV, that they have had broad support for the environment. Therefore, as I understand it, the High Sejm has decided that it is necessary to include further actors who can submit candidates, to abolish this border, but to give young people a better chance of effectively applying for the position of a member of the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation. Especially since more actors can support. It seems to me that this is absolutely rational and fully justified. If more can support, more can sit on this council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u284	Thank you very much. Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u285	All the time, Minister, I ask you one thing: was a draft regulation created in which a mechanism for the selection of members was created? And has there been a simulation of how big advice can arise? For, Minister, such are the voices in a young environment that the council can count 500 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u286	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u287	Such simulations were not created because, in fact, if this law comes into force and will apply, it will largely depend on it. I think so, but this is of course the decision of the president of the Committee on Public Use, how many people will come forward. And, I believe, the President of the Committee on Public Use will try to invite as many people as possible to participate. Of course, those who will report correctly in the procedure so far in force But of course he will also consider that this advice should not be too numerous. Because, of course, we know that then there is even a logistical problem with her meeting. But I think that... I don't remember exactly how many entries were made to the board of this term, but I think there were dozens of them, probably somewhere closer to 100 than 50. Therefore, assuming that the number of candidates may be slightly higher, let's say that about 100, I suspect that half or more than half, if, of course, these are applications which will have significant representativeness, there is a chance if the President of the Committee for Public Use so considers, to be on this board. It seems to me that this is a very good change, because this council can simply have a different number of members in each term of office, also in proportion to the number of candidates who will apply. So I don't see any controversy here, to be honest. I didn't hear voices like that. And I'm in touch with a lot of youth circles. I didn't get that kind of fear. I think we want every organ like this to be as representative as possible. And the upper limit of the number of members, of course, always limits this possibility of representativeness, because it limits the possibility to appoint members to the body concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u288	Thank you very much. Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u289	Minister, you are the Vice-President of the Committee on Public Use. I understand that on this board, you play a role that suits your interests and the many functions I've already mentioned. That's why I can't imagine you're bringing in a project that talks about fundamental, very important changes to the body, which should be very transparent... Young people, when applying for such advice, should know the criteria according to which they will be chosen, and from these records it follows that the decision to appoint a member of the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation is an arbitrary decision of the President of the Committee for Public Use. Here, in the Senate, when we proceed with laws, we want to be sure beyond any doubt, we want an explanation. At least the idea that led the authors of the records. You are here in a double role, i.e. as a representative of the KRPM, and at the same time as Vice-President of the Committee on Public Use and thus the author of these changes, and you have an idea of what the rules and criteria for recruitment will be. If there's any youth advice... We consulted them, too. As the Minister probably remembers, the first project came out of the Senate. We know what their expectations are. And above all, what we should all care about is that the rules of operation of all organisations that bring together young people indicate clear, beyond all doubt non-political selection criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u290	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u291	Thank you very much. I must point out that the series of questions that your senator poses does not, in fact, concern the law that we are discussing here today. The senator is really asking about issues related to a completely different bill. This bill Yeah, it is. In a technical element, it is changed by the way, but this is a side thing about the subject of today's bill. You are asking about the functioning of the Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering, which was adopted by the Sejm and the Senate and then signed by the President in 2019. Of course, it was a amending law that set up a Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation. It has been in force since 2019. At that time a regulation was issued for the law, which sets out in detail the modalities for the election of the members of the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation. The only thing that changes in the legislation that we are talking about today is that 2 new entities that this law sets up The legislator has not previously set up such bodies They can support candidates for the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation. Everything else, i.e. the mode of choice, the issues of who is calling, in which way, at what time, are regulated by completely different laws, which are not the subject of our debate today. I must say that I think that the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation works very well. I think that the very fact that it was the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation that created the foundation of the project, which then became a law adopted by Parliament almost unanimously We're talking about her today. It shows that this advice works very well. This advice was involved in creating the Senior Solidarity Corps, helping those in need during the pandemic, is involved in many different projects From digital projects to support children's and young people's mental health systems to international issues. The Council deals with a number of things. There are a lot of people from different backgrounds, with different political views. It's there, for example. The person who represents the same group as the senator. We work very well there because it is not a place for partying or political bantering, but it is a place of substantive work and serious debate. As a result of this debate, concrete projects are being created, such as the Act, which is being discussed today by the High Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u292	Thank you. Senator? [[That's the last question.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u293	Minister, since the previous law has been examined in very detail and the law amending the law on public benefit has appeared for the first time, don't be surprised that having this opportunity, having the opportunity to talk to you, who is the vice-president of the committee, while at the same time acting in the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation and probably still in the Council of Children and Youth at MEN... I've only wanted one question from the start. You presented a very good, nice laurel about the scope of the operation, but I only asked if the rules of recruitment were already developed. If not, that's the right answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u294	Thank you. Is the Minister going to answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u295	I feel like I've answered that question several times. Accurate recruitment rules In this case, the amending regulation will be adopted after the entry into force of the law. Well, right now, we don't know what shape she'll eventually come into force because we're talking about some amendments. These amendments will either be accepted or not accepted. It is difficult to prepare a regulation when it is not yet known what will ultimately be the form of a law which is currently being discussed by the Senate. Well, then we're gonna need the President's signature. This bill doesn't apply yet. We cannot, without knowing its final shape, issue regulations to it or even prepare a preliminary project. However, I would like to stress that the intention... Because I understand that's what you're asking. I have said this several times, but it may need to be made clear again. The intention of the Committee on Public Use is that the election procedure for the members of the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation in the new term of office should in principle be the same as so far. That's all that's gonna change. If this law is in force That it will be possible to support candidates for members by newly created statutory works, i.e. youth councils of powiats and youth sejmikas of voivodships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u296	Thank you very much, Minister. The list of questions has been exhausted. Thank you. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Mazurek: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, who is sitting in a remote way.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u297	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In general, I think that the more mandatory it is on different sides, the worse it is. When I was president of Wrocław, even without this law, I allowed various advices to take place, of course, at the request of interested parties. They functioned on the City Council of Wrocław and on the President of Wrocław. There was advice on youth, there was advice on veterans, there was advice on disabled people etc., etc. So, generally speaking, I think it would be best if at the local level such advice appeared as a result of the beliefs of the people, from the bottom up. Everything that is imposed centrally and from the top, in my opinion, will always be worse than what arises from the bottom. The second point, which is very important and important, is that young people need to create the conditions for debates, for conversations, even disputes, and thus, in short, for pro-Citizen education. I think that the idea of such youth councils working with local government, in general, is excellent, is very good. Today, however, we are dealing with a situation where this institutional framework is very often either insufficient or not encouraging. In some cases they even block such initiatives because there are local governments who refuse or are reluctant to... [[Disruption during the speech]] So this project, which was created in the Senate and whose author was Mrs. Joanna Sekuła, is going to... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, we can't hear you. Something happened to the voice.]] Something's crashed. Maybe it's better now. I'll keep the video, maybe it's for the best. Can you hear me better now? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Yes. There you go.]] So Senator Joanna Sekula's initiative has speeded up some government decisions, and I'm very happy about that. I believe that the government project is generally going in the right direction. It's not over-regulated, it's light regulation, and It's a very important issue for me. It does not oblige local authorities to appoint youth councils. Unfortunately, our Legislating Office. whom I would like to thank very warmly. It pointed to numerous shortcomings. This was done incredibly precisely, so once again I pay my respects and thanks. Nevertheless, it seems to me that under the current conditions we can consider that we will improve this law at some later stage. Today, it is necessary to give young people the opportunity to form these advices as soon as possible where possible, where young people want it and where they have a partner in the form of local government. So, generally speaking, I would urge you to adopt this law without amendment. We will take advantage of all the experience that we will have in the coming months, and we will return to this law in order to correct it if necessary. This is also consistent with the indications of our Legislative Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u298	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u299	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am very pleased with this initiative. As my previous speaker, Senator Zdrojewski, it is also appropriate to thank Senator Joannie Sekule here. This Senate, before the government initiative, came up with a draft amendment of the law in the context of youth councils in local government units. Thanking Senator Zdrojewski for saying that I have only one doubt. Personally, I think those amendments that have been tabled are justified. Thank you for the work of the Legislative Bureau, which has been carried out in this respect. I have no doubt, however, that there is such universal agreement here. And it doesn't undoubtedly make you happy. In terms of the Senate's legislative initiative or the government project, in such a context as to be more open to young people's activity, use their potential, commitment, desire for social work. I would like everyone involved in this process. Whether in the Senate or in the government or in the Seym, thank you because this is the goal that counts, which is to encourage the younger generation to engage in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u300	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm informing you... Senator Joanna Sekula, please take the floor. Excuse me, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I am very pleased that we are ending the long legislative process for the creation and functioning of youth councils, which lasts several months. This is a great opportunity for these young people to exist in public space, because this is the first level of social activity for them. Working in youth organisations is not the same as working on activities that can actually change their environment. A few months' work in the Senate resulted in a bill that we sent to the Sejm on 13 January. Unfortunately, at the same time, the draft of our bill collided with the Seym project, but regardless of the fate of the Senate project, there are several entries which were written by the Senate, among others. the one talking about an initiative function. I am very pleased that young people will be able to function on the basis of local partners. This will be a great opportunity for them to learn the principles of legislation, the creation of alliances, as well as negotiations and compromises. Young people need respect and subjective treatment. Let's give them as much as possible. It'll be okay if it's all they need. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u302	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! It'll be very short. First of all, I would like to thank Senator Sekule for putting a lot of work into this. I saw it, watched the young people come, how many meetings there were, how much commitment there was. Senator, thank you very much. It's too bad our bill... It is often the case that we race with the Sejm, who will first push through the bill. This initiative came out of the Senate. You've put a lot of work into this, and I'd like to thank you. I as a former self-government officer, with a 17-year internship, 100% I agree that it is very necessary for young people to activate so that young people can get involved in the affairs of their small homelands, as if on the side of politics. Then, when they enter into adult life, it may be different, but these little homelands need the activity of young people. It's been different so far. I'm crossing my fingers for this bill to make young people want to. Because you have to have an idea. The creation of a youth council in the municipality, in the voivodship, is not a big problem, it can be done if required, but it is about finding an idea for young people themselves to be interested in working in such youth councils. Then really this activity will be beneficial to the whole community of our little homelands. So I, seeing certain errors and amendments that should be made, on which we discussed at the committee meeting, will, of course, vote in favour of the law. Because for the local government, it is necessary for Poland to implement these solutions as soon as possible and eventually we will improve them. Once again, Senator Sekuła, great words of appreciation and thanks. I bow low. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u304	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators Alexander Szwed, Alicja Chybicka, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Halina Bieda, Benjamin Godyla, Ewa Gawada, Adam Szejnfeld, Janusz Gromek and Janusz Pęcherz made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the meeting... Excuse me. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you once again that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. And for the sake of order, I would also like to inform you that today's agenda will be concluded on the 17th agenda and that a recess will be ordered by 10 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National Debt Register and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 387 and the report of the Commission In print No 387 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Potoj, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u305	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I am pleased to discuss the law on amending the National Debt Register Act and some other laws. This sounds so delicate, but these are very far-reaching changes and interfere with as many as 6 laws. The main purpose of the amendment is to adapt the arrangements adopted in the Act of 30 August 2019 on the amendment of the Act of solvency and certain other laws to the arrangements provided for in the Act of 6 December 2018 on the National Debt Register so that insolvency proceedings can be handled against natural persons, in particular those not engaged in business, by means of an electronic system operating judicial proceedings in which the file is created and processed. As a result, the only tool for submitting letters and documents in these proceedings, as well as restructuring proceedings, will be the IT system serving legal proceedings, which was created on the basis of the said provisions of the 2018 Act. The exclusive use of the electronic system serving legal proceedings in bankruptcy and restructuring proceedings will allow for the full implementation of the creation and processing of electronic judicial files. As I mentioned, the bill reviewed amends as many as 6 laws. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a law that has been long awaited. It is intended to improve the activities in the area that it regulates, to lead to computerisation. It is very complicated, very complicated, to the extent that although it was a government presentation that was forged in many works, it did not contain certain errors. But I would like to stress that our Legislative Office has found in the person of the Minister Frydry and her collaborators very good interlocutors. And from this point on, from which I have repeatedly denounced the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, I would like to thank the Minister for her excellent work and really very open and easy cooperation. It is enough to say that all the amendments that have been tabled by our Legislative Office, including in cooperation with the Ministry, have been accepted, to the extent that we have probably been able to accept all these amendments in one block for the first time in five years and unanimously. Moreover, the Ministry has also taken into account the votes of those to whom this amendment is addressed and has taken into account the request to extend the vacathio legis by 6 months. Thanks to this consensus, President Marek Martynowski and I were able to make such a sounding amendment, which was also accepted. During this debate in committee, one of the experts raised the right point, as it turned out, of the fact that, in view of the fact that we are changing the moment of entry into force of this law, there may be a gap in the operation of the existing legislation. And also as a result of the consensus, the Ministry agreed to the last amendment that was made by the Ministry's team together with our Legislative Office, which I am about to make in writing when I speak on this matter. I think this is all I can say about the course of our committee meeting, stressing once again the exemplary cooperation of the representatives of the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u306	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the House, Minister Katarzyna Frydrych. Would the Minister like to take the floor and present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The main purpose of the Act is to adapt the solutions that have been adopted in the Act amending the Act on Insolvency and certain other laws to those adopted in the Act on the National Debt Register. This adjustment is intended primarily to improve the procedure of consumer insolvency by: introducing the principle of filing letters and documents through the IT system that supports legal proceedings; keeping the act of the restructuring advisor only in the IT system that supports proceedings; access to the file via the system that supports this procedure via the Internet and extending the scope of disclosures in the National Debt Register. The aim is to increase the transparency of these proceedings. The Act also envisages making the quicker sale of the assets of the failing country in the liquidation procedure more attractive by extending the forms of the deposit in this procedure. The solution is - There's no doubt about it. It will increase the number of quick exit options available to the debtor. In principle, the Act transfers legal solutions to the restructuring procedure which are adopted in a simplified procedure for the approval of the Agreement. This procedure was introduced within the framework of the so-called. Covid shield. The aim of this solution is to make the debtor's agreement with creditors more quickly and effectively, while ensuring the protection of the legitimate rights of creditors. At present, the simplified restructuring procedure is the most frequently initiated restructuring procedure, and it is therefore justified to recycle these solutions permanently to the restructuring law. I remain convinced that the regulatory arrangements introduced by the law will translate into speeding up and improving restructuring and bankruptcy procedures, increasing the efficiency of these procedures. Solutions that are included in the Act Further electronicisation of restructuring and bankruptcy procedures, in particular consumer bankruptcy, among others. by requiring the restructuring advisor to keep the file electronically or by extending the information that is disclosed in the National Debt Register It will allow for greater transparency of these proceedings, which will consequently have to translate into increased safety of economic turnover. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u308	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u309	Minister, perhaps this is the first time we can see you in this role in Parliament, at least in the second Chamber. Congratulations on your choice. I'd like to ask you about the statistics. How much do we have?I don't know if you have data for 2020, or for 2019 restructuring proceedings, bankruptcy proceedings, and how many consumer bankruptcy proceedings? Is it really that consumer bankruptcy can be used a little more widely, so to speak? If you have a problem with the answer...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u310	As for the 2019 data, I think there are 9,000 cases, but I'm not sure. If there is a need to provide precise data in this regard, I will of course provide this information. [[Then I'll ask you to send me the detailed statistics in writing. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u311	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that the representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Alexander Swed and Senator Janusz Błucherz made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that Senator Alexander Pociej has submitted a legislative proposal for the protocol. The discussion is closed. Does the representative of the government want to comment on the Senator's legislative proposal? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We support this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u313	Thank you very much, Minister. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister, for coming to the Senate. We proceed with the review of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Treatment of Persons with Mental Disorders that pose a threat to the life, health or sexual freedom of others. The text of the act is contained in print No 374 and the report of the committee In print No 374 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mammothov, to submit a report to the committee. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u314	Thank you very much, Marshal. Report from the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 15 April 2021 amending the Act on the Treatment of Persons with Mental Disorders that pose a threat to the life, health or sexual freedom of other persons. The aim of the Act is to provide staff for the service of the National Centre for the Prevention of Dissociable Behaviour in Gostynin through temporary secondment to work at the Prison Service Centre. The Act also provides funding for the planned construction of the new facility and the establishment of a temporary centre until the investment has been completed. Following the examination of the law at its meeting on 11 May 2021, the committee requests the adoption of that law. I'd like to add about two more sentences. It is a bill that has been expected for a long time in the Human Rights Committee, from the very beginning when it was created. I would like to remind you that the resort in Gostynin was created for those who, as usual, received 25 years in prison, imprisonment, because another sentence, higher, was not then. And those who found themselves in this center threatened, as the above-mentioned law says, the lives of others or even announced that they would commit the same crimes if they were released. That's why this facility was built. But there's a little problem here. And then he was a little kid. Because the resort was intended for 10 people, for a maximum of 12 people, and today, ladies and gentlemen, there are more than 90 people. The rooms, which were intended for 1 person, are present today from 4 to 10 persons. I would just like to remind you that according to the standards of the Prison Service, there are 4 m2 scheduled in a cell per person. So that the density here is very high. That is why Mr Marshal, the previous chairman of the Human Rights Committee, me and the current President Pociej, have tried to solve this problem as soon as possible. This is the answer to our proposals, which is why the committee is asking for this law to be adopted urgently, so as to take the first step in improving the existence. Because, you know, they're very bad people, but people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u315	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Paweł Rychlik was authorized to present the position of the applicants during parliamentary work. The MP isn't in the courtroom. We welcome the representatives of the government, the representative of the Ministry of Health, Minister Maciej Miłkowski, and the representative of the Ministry of Justice, Minister Marcin Romanowski. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the government's position? If so, which one of you? Or both? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u316	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Briefly. We would very much like to ask for a positive review of the law, because this law is an accident law that will enable the tendering procedure to be launched for the construction of a new seat, to ensure a much better conditions for people staying in the centre. That's why it's so important that we start it as soon as possible. And until then, until this construction is completed, we need places for these patients, those who are staying at the current facility. As the rapporteur said, 93 people are already in the centre and the centre was planned for a maximum of 60 people. So that we actually see this overcrowding problem, and that's why we're bringing it to work as soon as possible. And regardless of that, the Ministry of Justice and I are finishing work on a major amendment, as requested by the Senate Human Rights Committee, because this is the data related to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u317	Thank you very much. Did Minister Romanowski... No. Stay still, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Aleksander Pociej. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u318	Thank you very much. I have a question for either the Minister or a representative of the Ministry of Justice. There's an inmate there, as we know, one man who's had convictions, many convictions, that's true, and who's absolutely fit for therapy in psychological centers. Nobody's denying it. But he's in there with convictions for robbery and theft. Do you know anything about this? If not, I'd like a written reply. How come the bill that we called the Beasts Act when it was led here... She was only meant to be about people who committed the most serious crime possible. And if it's true And from all the information I've got, that's what I'm saying. That such a man is in this center, it begins to resemble the standards of the deepest communist years and it is not even Polish, but Russian. I'd like to know if you're aware of something like this, and if you're not, I'd like to ask for a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u319	There you go, Mr... [[Mrs. Marshal, I would at once... have a very similar question.]] There you go, Mr. Senator. I have a similar question, too, so why don't we ask them the three of us, and then the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u320	Have you heard? I'm asking because we're the ones who get to the committee. That there are persons staying in a centre who have a medical certificate according to which they may be released and are still there, because the court is told not to allow it. Is that the situation? And one more thing... Maybe that's it for now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u321	Thank you very much. I would like to ask a similar question, and the Minister will be clear by now. I would like to ask if there are people in the facility who are there under civil courts. That's the first line. And then there's the second line. I would like to ask you to answer in writing how many people are imprisoned in this facility, which was dedicated to the law at the time it was created, i.e. the perpetrators of the most serious crimes. Did Senator Czerwiński want to ask a similar question or another? [[Different.]] Okay, I'm gonna let the senator in in a minute, and if the minister could answer us right now...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u322	Either way, we're going to make a written reply. The Ministry of Health as the body supervising the facility... The head of the centre, on the basis of a decision of the court, is obliged to accept any person who is qualified, there is no other option. This is a completely different situation than in the case of a normal medicinal product. Here, the head of the centre has no rights of non-adoption, the decision of the court is binding. Do I know that that person is there? I can't confirm it here. We're going to make a written reply. Because we do not have access to the data relating to persons or to the decisions of the court on the basis of which those persons were addressed to this centre. But at the same time we have such information that some people according to medical consultants should not be in this facility, and a dedicated court, that is, a court in Płock, does not recognize these cases. We will work on this and perhaps present the position of national consultants, common to individuals, so that there is an expert opinion of the consilium, which will possibly convince the court to treat these people differently.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u323	So, as I understand it, the Minister will give us a written reply to the extent that he can. Yes? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Yes, yes.]] Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u324	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to see how many people there were in the beginning and how many are in the facility right now. Have any of the people left this facility? And if so, how many people left him? In your opinion, is such an idea, the existence of this center, well implemented? And is what was supposed to prevent the existence of this center really being destroyed in the sense that we already have a safe situation in the country?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u325	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u326	We believe that in this fundamental area the law clearly fulfils its role, that is, society is safe. Those people who shouldn't be in a society that's a threat to this society are in this facility. As regards the number of persons, as described in the impact assessment when adopting the law, this was estimated at between 10 and 13 persons. At some point, we sort of expanded this facility, which was meant for another type of activity, and passed it all on to this type of activity as the Ministry of Health. Then this number of people, the number of patients was set at 60 people. Currently there are 93 people there and practically these people are all the time, since the beginning of the bill... One person died last year.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u327	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u328	Thank you very much. We have heard a lot during this meeting, during the Human Rights Committee meeting with the Ombudsman on Gostynin, about the stress associated with the work of so-called medical staff, as well as the representatives of the Prison Service there. We have heard that there is no practical and no training on this subject. I'm talking about training for therapists, psychologists or nurses on stress work. Is this information known to the Minister? Can you confirm them or deny them? If not at the moment, I would possibly ask for written information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u329	We're not familiar with such cases. Prison Service doesn't work there, i.e. she was posted to work at the beginning, for the first period of the bill's operation, and now for the period of the loan... Of course, this is done after training, because those who normally work in the Prison Service do not have all the authority to force directly on patients. They're helping with this coercion, so that a nurse or a doctor can administer a cure. Only such persons can be allowed. But we didn't have that kind of information about the need for psychological assistance training for medical personnel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u330	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u331	I remember that moment when we passed this bill. I had big objections to this bill at the time. This is such a combination of not prison, not hospital, although it is healthcare service, etc. Don't you think the place of those who have personality issues, mental problems, is in psychiatric hospitals? Well, if someone commits a serious crime, and the court finds that they've committed it in a way that isn't fully thoughtful, they're headed to a mental hospital. He can stay in this mental hospital for the rest of his life, and in this case, he doesn't. Tell me if the courts fired people in there... Well, it's hard for me to find the right word because they're not prisoners, they're not prisoners, they're not sick people either, because they're not directed there because they're sick. Well, if they were sick, they'd be headed to a hospital, a closed mental hospital. That's the kind of person they are. Tell me if there have been any cases of firing people from this facility, letting people go free. Is death the only way out of this situation? You said that... That's the first, basic question. Second question. Working in such a unit is not only an additional stress, but also a danger, putting yourself in danger of loss of health or even life. Do those working there receive any extras, additional gratifications? The point is that they're not people, let's say, from catch-ups or directed to work, let's say the voivodeship's decision, which has the opportunity to go to work. Those two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u332	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u333	The first question I will answer is this: from what we know, the court often received requests for dismissal, but according to our knowledge there was no such consent. As I said before, we are working to possibly strengthen, in the case in question, to justify medically that a person should not be present at this facility. In this respect, we work with consultants. Besides, we are at the final stage of work on the amendment of the law, which we discussed with the committee at the beginning of this year. I hope that many of the comments made by the committee by the Ombudsman will be taken into account, but the basic direction will remain essential. It's the kind of facility that works... But we see a problem of perhaps overestimating... There's supposed to be 10, 13 people, and there's 93 people out there right now. These people are more than we expected. Thank you very much. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanka: Thank you...]] Oh, and the second question. Those people who are employed as our administrative staff, medical personnel, have allowances. In this respect, You don't have to look for staff. The salary is adequate. We know this is a very hard and responsible job.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u334	Thank you. I still have a question about this amendment. At the committee meeting at the beginning of the year, there was indeed a very large discussion on this subject. There was also a representative of the National Torture Prevention Mechanism at this meeting. You said there's work to be done... What stage are they at? 'Cause it's almost half a year now. Is there any chance that this year, in the near future, this bill will be sent to the Sejm at all?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u335	For all we know, this is about to be a request to the Government's Programming Team to include this law in the work. As you all know, in order to enter a bill, there must be ready content... I hope that this year this project will be discussed and the bill will soon be considered. Of course, we were sort of on a date, and we were talking at that meeting that we were going to work very hard together on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u336	Thank you very much. And I am very pleased to be sure of that, Minister, because this is extremely important. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Here we have one opinion.]] All the issues that concern human rights are things that we should do together, in agreement and in agreement. Thank you very much. Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you to confront what you're talking about... Director Gostynin has no right not to accept people after the sentence, and that has happened. Can you tell us how this case ended?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u338	There was one case where at a given moment the director did not accept another person, among others. This was based on my position because, on the one hand, the Director has no right not to accept, because it is a judgment of the court, on the other hand, the Director is responsible for the security and rights of the people who are staying there. So we have a fugitive of two laws. That's why this bill is so urgent and important that this doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u339	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Alexander Pociej, Senator Robert Mamytkow and Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u340	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I confirm everything you said to Marshal Borusewicz. We had, I think, all of us, when the Ministry of Justice proposed a team, if I remember correctly, Minister Gowin, that's the solution... At that time it was said whether it would be abused or whether we were going towards those solutions that were so tragic in the history of different nations, where such centres were used to eliminate people who could not be legally eliminated. [[You can't do that, Mr. Senator.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, please...]] We had this... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I am speaking to Senator Mammothov. Don't interrupt.]] We had this... I had such doubts. [[...in the Soviet Union.]] Yes, sir. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] And this practice that... Let me stress: I wasn't talking about some political option... I am talking about this and I am trying to address this problem, which was also mentioned by the Minister, who admitted that a dedicated court to this case in Płock, despite clear views on many people, regularly rejects requests for dismissal. That's a problem. [[But this is an independent court...]] But this is a problem that we should all have over the divisions to solve, because it's either a bad design, or we've created and warmed up such an atmosphere around this case that this court is just afraid. And you have to pay attention to that. After all, we are concerned about this issue here, and we are representatives of all the most important political forces represented in the Sejm and the Senate. The Ombudsman has pointed out since at least 2017 that this is a problem that is growing and which is going to explode. In 2019 there was no doubt that there was overpopulation and that in a moment it would be even worse. Well, no one's ever... It was necessary to lead to such a situation that it threatened to explode, that the staff spoke about a life and health threat. And it took two years. Well, someone's responsible. That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. I'm really glad there's this proposal. And as you have noticed, no one is questioning this solution. Moreover, we have called for this and said at the meeting of our Human Rights Committee, also above the party divisions, that this problem needs to be resolved immediately, because it will end badly. But I have to say, glad we're going the right way, it's dramatically late. And besides... We also heard from the Minister. And thank you very much for that. There's work to be done on this bill. We have a request. We would very much like... you see, Minister, how eager we are to cooperate. If this is possible, we would very much like to participate in this in some way as a human rights committee, or at least have some information about how this work is doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u341	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Ryszard Świlski, Alexander Szwed, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka and Robert Mątkow made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, gentlemen, for coming to the Senate. I'm ordering a recess until 10:00 tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that tomorrow we will resume our deliberations at 10.00 a.m. from the examination of the 19th paragraph: the law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws. Point 18, i.e. The law on amending the Law of the Criminal Code and certain other laws will be considered at 11.30 a.m. I would also like to remind you that tomorrow, at 5 p.m., we will proceed with the examination of the point: consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Commissions still.]] And I'm asking the secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u342	High Senate, the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of the amendments tabled at the twenty-fourth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on the National Debt Register and certain other laws will take place on 13 May 2021 at 945 a.m. in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure on the examination of the requests submitted at the 24th Senate meeting to the Act on the Protection of the Rights of the Buyer of Housing or Single Family House and the Developer of the Guarantee Fund, Senate Printing No 386, will take place tomorrow, 13 May, at 9 a.m. in room 182. Joint meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of proposals submitted during the debate to the Act on the amendment of the law on municipal self-government, the Act on regional government, the Act on local government and the Act on public benefit activities and on voluntary activities will take place tomorrow, i.e. May 13th, 9.15 a.m. in room 176. The joint meeting of the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment on the examination of the proposals submitted at the twenty-fourth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emission trading scheme and certain other laws The Joint Meeting of the Committee on Health, the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other acts - Senate Printing No 371 Meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure on the examination of requests submitted at the twenty-fourth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and some other laws - Senate printing no. 377 - will take place tomorrow, 13 May at 9.30 a.m. in room 182. Last message. The meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the requests submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws will take place tomorrow, i.e. May 13th, 9.30 a.m. in room 176. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-12-senat-24-1.u343	Thank you very much. Once again, the sitting will resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. [[Meeting adjourned at 19 minutes 17]]
