ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u1	I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - Public Finances together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 10, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Economy and Development - h.m. 11.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - Health-- hour. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 3.30 p.m., - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Infrastructure - hour 4:30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Infrastructure - h.m. 5:30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 6:30 p.m., - to Energy, Climate and State Assets - hour. 20, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 8:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u2	Thank you very much. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - on the amendment of the excise duty law, - on the amendment of the law - Construction law and the law on planning and spatial planning. The reports shall be printed in 1566 and 1544 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm should agree to shorten the time limit referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in discussions on these items on the agenda, he listened to five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. [[Objection.]] Which part, sir? Because you probably didn't listen. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me? [[In view of the shortening of time.]] Then we shall proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The question will be asked by MEPs Stefan Krajewski, Zbigniew Ziejewski, Andrzej Grzyb and Mirosław Maliszewski from the Polish Coalition on aid for farmers supplying milk to ROTR Dairy Cooperative in Rypin. The question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u3	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! At the Monday meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, we discussed the aid provided by the state institutions, specifically the Mleczar Spółdzielnia Bielmlek. And I ask the Minister to examine the Council of Ministers regulation of 27 July 2021 amending the regulation on the detailed scope and ways of carrying out some of the tasks of the ARiMR and initiating legislative changes processes so that all farmers can feel equally treated by existing legislation in our country. Based on the above. aid regulations can only be applied for by farmers who have not been paid for milk delivered to a selected cooperative. In my opinion, this situation unduly discriminates, for example. ROTR Rypin suppliers. The cooperative declared bankruptcy in 2018, did not pay farmers for the raw material delivered for 3 months. Currently, according to information from the syndicate, the outstanding amount is PLN 20,629,942 for 751 farmers. This situation has to date had a huge impact on the economic balance of farms, and in many cases caused the farmers to stop milk production, who were forced to sell dairy cows in order to settle payments for feed and agricultural inputs. Farmers expect equal treatment. Support should be directed on a level playing field to all operators without dividing into production directions and periods for the creation of claims. Minister, this regulation, which was issued on 30 July 2021, concerns only (the bell) of the years 2019 to 2020. Why doesn't it apply to 2018... Thank you. ...to cover the ROTR Rypin dairy cooperative? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u4	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Minister of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, will reply. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u5	Dear Marshal! High Seym! First, a few words about the regulation. A Regulation of the Council of Ministers setting out the conditions for granting aid to agricultural producers who, both in 2019 and in 2020, have not received at least once a payment for the milk sold in connection with the issuing of an order declaring bankruptcy against that person to whom the milk has been sold, is a response to the requests made by farmers, their associations and farmers' organisations in this respect. Pursuant to the provisions of this Regulation, the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture grants aid to milk producers up to the level of, first, the amount of lost income on the sale of milk and at the same time 80% the amount resulting from unpaid invoices, bills or other evidence of sale. This aid shall be granted in the form of de minimis aid. Milk producers could submit applications for the aid until 15 August this year. The request was accompanied by a copy of the invoices, accounts or other evidence of the sale of milk, a copy of the list of claims or any other document confirming the existence of a claim by the agricultural producer against the fallen entity for not receiving payment by that producer for the sold milk in 2019 and 2020, drawn up by the insolvency administrator, by the co-holder's written consent. The aid was allocated to the amount of PLN 10 million. According to data from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, milk producers submitted 786 applications for this aid. The agency's county offices are currently carrying out a process of verifying the applications submitted. At 14 September 755 applications for a total amount of over PLN 7 million were verified, but this verification is still ongoing. The remaining applications are being completed by agricultural producers due to the need to complete the required documents which confirm the lost income in the years in question, i.e. in 2019 and 2020. The applications were submitted mainly by the suppliers of the cooperative "Bielmlek" and Ozorków. High Izbo! The regulation responds to the difficult situation of farmers supplying milk to dairy cooperatives who have not paid farmers the funds for the raw material delivered. The regulation concerned all dairy cooperatives which had not paid the farmers funds in the years 2019 to 2020, and indeed this Regulation does not cover the situation in which milk farmers found themselves and who did not receive payment for the milk delivered due to the bankruptcy of the dairy cooperative in Rypin, as this happened in 2018. We had 10 million zlotys for this purpose in connection with the situation which you spoke about in the question. We will examine this regulation at the Ministry of Agriculture. However, I must also say that when it comes to the loss of income from other supplies, I think it will be very difficult And it's gonna have to be regulated on a system basis. Such work continues, e.g. in the case of the Family Farm Act, within the framework of the agricultural legislation in the Polish Lad programme. We want to settle this, but the matter is very delicate. The state, the Ministry of Agriculture, wants to help in such difficult situations, but the scale of the problem is so large that system regulations are needed in this area. And as far as this particular situation is concerned, we are going to analyse it, because we are helping farmers according to the question asked and we are helping farmers according to the facts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the provisions of the Regulation. We help those whose dairy cooperatives have fallen in the years 2019 and 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u6	Thank you, Minister. Mr Stefan Krajewski with a supplementary question. You're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, in connection with some problem with the microphones in the benches, please ask questions from the speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u7	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased as a citizen of the Podlaskie Voivodeship that money was found for suppliers, co-operatives of Bielmlek. Well, it's a good thing you got that kind of money. This is the second time in 2021 that you share society. As at the beginning only mountain communities could apply for support in connection with lockdown, although we said that other municipalities, other local authorities, too, were waiting for such assistance, so now you share for the second time, you share farmers. Those affected by the disaster in 2019 and 2020 could receive aid and those affected in 2018 could not apply for aid. You see these problems, you talk about them all the time. You have to solve these problems, not say you see them, because everyone sees them, but you have the tools and instruments to help these farmers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u8	Thank you very much. I invite Minister Richard Bartosik and ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u9	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! We see these problems and try to solve them. Indeed, this regulation has helped many farmers, it has responded to the demands of the agricultural community, and I think we can all agree on that. I have already said that we will analyse the situation of the dairy cooperative in Rypin, but we need to examine this situation further. The point is that if we take 2018 into account, there may be postulates about 2017, 2016 and so on in a moment. First of all, funds are needed to secure payments to farmers. As I just said, 10 million zlotys were secured and the money was running low. Therefore, an analysis of the situation concerning this cooperative and 2018 will be carried out, but the decision will be taken when we have the measures guaranteed for this purpose. We must act responsibly, we cannot make promises or declarations if there is no financial enclosure for a given action. I promised that we would examine this situation at the Ministry of Agriculture, think about and make decisions like this or other ones. We do not want to share farmers, but you know very well that this type of disadvantage for farmers has been a great deal back in the years to come, and that is why we need a thorough analysis of this type of situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u10	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question has been prepared by Mr Andrzej Gawron, Mr Jerzy Paul, Mr Mariusz Trepek and Mrs Barbara Dziuk from Law and Justice, on the action taken at the Polish-Belarusian border. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Mr Gawron is the first question to be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u11	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! State borders are one of the foundations of statehood: protecting these borders, sealing them, protecting them from illegal immigration, preventing smuggling. For several months we have seen a significant increase in crossings, illegal immigration on the eastern border with Belarus. Unfortunately, later it turned out, according to information that it was an organized action, that this emigration was constantly increasing, so appropriate action had to be taken. Minister! I would like to ask for a wide range of information on how the border is secured. We know about the construction of a temporary barbed wire fence to protect these sections of the border. And the question is whether these already built sections of the fence actually protect, because we still get information about illegal immigration. Are these built sections effective? There was also a case in this regard concerning people who were camping at the border and probably still camping in some places. This is always linked to a certain humanitarian procedure that takes account of the well-being of those who are there at the border. What actions were taken on the part of Poland on this subject? It is a pity that there were people on the Polish side who were trying to take advantage of this crisis situation at the moment, and that the actions of the Border Guard or the army had to be taken. I'd ask for such full synthetic information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u12	Thank you, sir. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Maciej Wąsik to reply. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, as the honourable Member has pointed out, we are dealing with an action organised by the Belarusian services concerning the pressure on the European Union's border. To illustrate the scale, I'm going to give you some numbers. In January we had zero attempts to cross the Polish-Belarusian border illegally, in February - 1 attempt, in March - 2 attempts, in April - 61, in May - 9, in June - 77, in July - 242 attempts, and in August - already - 3.5 thousand. By September 12 we recorded 2260 attempts to cross the Belarusian-Polish border illegally. Only yesterday - I received information from the Border Guard this morning - 301 migrants tried to cross the border. The Polish state took the necessary and appropriate steps to seal the Polish-Belarusian border. Let me remind you that we had a readmission agreement, i.e. refugees, people illegally crossing the border were to be accepted back by Belarus. At the end of June, the procedure for expressing this agreement on the part of Belarus was launched. This is evidence of a certain conscious operation of the service. Besides, there's a lot more to this evidence, of course. The main purpose of the operation of the guard supported by the Polish Army, supported by the Police, is to seal the border, i.e. to prevent the crossing, but from 1 January to 12 September the Border Guard stopped 1481 people who illegally entered the Polish state from Belarus. Half of them are Iraqi citizens, but they are also Syrians, Afghanistan, Russia, Somalia, Tajikistan, Iran and Egypt, even Cubans. [[Voice from the room: Phenomen...]] At the moment, the Polish-Belarusian border is guarding over 2 thousand. Border Guard officers supported by over 2,000. soldiers of the Polish Army. We can increase the number of soldiers at any time, as the Ministry of National Defense declares, basically by every number. We took action to secure the border in a technical way. Armed forces in the border lane on selected sections of the eastern border - the border with Belarus is 418 km, and these selected sections will total approx. 180 km, where these devices can be placed or needed to be placed - already built almost 113 km of axes in the form of a spiral fence, so-called. concerts, as well as more than 57 km of 2.5-metre fence in the lane of the border road. These devices, of course, make it very difficult to cross the border, in principle without the help of the Belarusian services, these activities are impossible for these migrants. Nevertheless, we keep getting help. serve Belarusians for migrants to exceed these technical equipment as well. The countries affected by such a hybrid attack from Belarus have put in place emergency conditions. At the beginning of July, the Lithuanian government declared an emergency. In Latvia, a state of emergency was introduced in areas bordering Belarus on 11 August. This condition is due to last until November 10th. We, as honourable Members know very well, introduced a state of emergency on 2 September by the President's decision. I would like to stress that the Polish Government has also taken legislative action. Yesterday there was a second reading of the law that would give more instruments to the Border Guard and to the Refugee Office for effective action to prevent illegal migration. I wanted to stress that we are prepared for further action. I am not authorized to talk about the government's plan for the rest of the year or for the years to come, but we will definitely spend money on it. I can only say that we planned in the modernization bill, which is about to go to the government's work, in the new law of modernization of uniform services, large funds for technical security of the eastern border. We will accelerate the mobilisation of these funds so as to first introduce perimetric devices this year. These are the latest generation of technical devices monitoring the eastern border. We want this action to be taken this year. So far this perimetry is on the Ukrainian border, where this migration problem was earlier (The Bell), at one time visible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Mariusz Trepka with a supplementary question. A little more information: I hear the microphones at the locations are already working, but you have to put the card first. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u15	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would also like to ask for humanitarian aid, which the Polish government prepared and wanted to send to the Belarusian side. Is this convoy still waiting at the border with Belarus? Then I would like to thank the Border Guard and the Polish Army for the protection and actions they carry out at the border with Belarus, because we know that the border with Belarus is not only the border of Poland, but also the entire European Union. Minister! One more important thing. We saw public people running near the border with Belarus, exactly parliamentarians. Does the Minister of the Interior or the Border Guard provide for the marshals to be sent to you to punish those parliamentarians? Because such actions (the bell) indicate that they should probably not carry out this mandate. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Good question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u16	Thank you very much. Minister, I invite you to respond. Minister Maciej Wąsik.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Indeed, the Polish government directed humanitarian transport so that it would be possible to give legal assistance to people who were camping on the Belarusian side at the altitude of Usnasz, just outside the Polish border. This transport was not allowed into Belarusian territory. Nevertheless, the Border Guard has noted that people who live at the border in Usnasz have care, are fed, treated by the Belarusian side. The Belarusian Red Cross appeared there. Meals are regularly provided there, also warm. That's not enough. Those people are rotating there. I wanted to assure you that tools such as concentrin and fence have already been used on this section of the border. I am also quite convinced, even tangible evidence, that if it had not been for the activities of some Polish parliamentarians in this section, if not for directing media attention to this section in such a way forced by parliamentarians, this situation difficult for this group of immigrants would have been over long ago, because only the media's attention, only the focus of the public on this section, caused the Belarusian side to maintain this situation. That's not enough, we've already had an attempt during the state of emergency to create this kind of situation in other places. However, at a time when the Polish public did not pay attention to these places, the Belarusians withdrew refugees from these areas, clearly treating them in an extremely instrumental manner. I wanted to emphasize one more thing very strongly, to make it sound like it. These people came to Belarus voluntarily, on tourist visas. They have the right to stay in Belarus. They have no right to cross the border with the Commonwealth. We will enforce this duty of border guarding with all severity, more and more appropriate to the situation at the border. This is a huge priority of the Polish government, including the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u18	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question prepared by Marek Polak, Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Wojciech Zubowski and Kazimierz Smolinski from Law and Justice, on energy security of Poland, addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. The question is first asked by Mr Marek Polak and Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski. You're welcome, my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u19	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! For several years thanks to effective government policy, the diversification of natural gas sources and directions to Poland has been progressing and increasing the storage capacity of oil. Thanks to the recent expansion of the oil terminal in Gdansk by the oil pipeline company, 600 thousand were created in the course of the year on the Baltic Sea. m I would like to ask what impact on the energy security of Poland has on the completed investment of the oil pipeline company and how the share of individual suppliers in the gas market in Poland is currently taking place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u21	Minister! I would also like to complete Mr Polak's speech with the question of whether, in the event of disruptions in gas supply from Russia, as has already happened in the event of pollution... Is the oil terminal in Gdansk able to ensure that fuel supplies are increased in the event of disturbances on our market? Are we in a position to receive additional supplies from the outside (the emergency bell)? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u22	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government for the Council of Ministers will answer the questions of the Members under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers. Minister Piotr Naimski, a strategic energy infrastructure. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start with the first part of the question. Indeed, we have a situation in which PERN, giving the second stage of the expansion of the oil terminal in Gdansk, has reached such a stage that it is able to flexibly, according to the expectations of the recipients, i.e. with the expectations of Polish refineries, but also two German refineries, deliver oil, raw material for processing different species. This is very important from the point of view of refineries, because they optimize their revenues by actually mixing different grades of raw material. These tanks, which have been returned, allow to receive ships from different parts of the world, from different manufacturers and greatly improve the conditions for the operation of the entire warehouse and raw material transport logistics system as regards oil. PERN is doing well with the refineries, working with them in case of disruption, and that is the serious disruption. This was the experience we experienced in 2019 when oil from Russia started to flow contaminated with chlorine compounds and, in agreement with customers, with refineries, PERN closed the oil flow at the Belarusian-Polish border. It turned out that it was possible, in practice it was proven, to supply the refinery from Naftoport in Gdańsk and from the warehouses at their disposal and PERN and the refinery. This is a situation that is desirable in the context of the security of oil supply for refineries. By the way, I can say that the effects of the 2019 accident have already been completely removed, i.e. there are no chlorine compounds in Poland's logistics system. It took two years to get rid of it. It should also be said that the tanks that Pern has in the system have allowed this process to be managed very flexibly, because it was possible to dispose of the contaminated oil that entered the system, stored and subsequently disposed of in a long time. That's what I can say. As regards the gas market, the supply of gas, in answer to the question of Members, I would like to say a few figures. In 2020, PGNiG, importing gas from the eastern direction, gained 61% imports, i.e. 9 billion m As regards the gas market, PGNiG delivered 85% to final customers in 2020 , almost 86% raw material, i.e. the remaining 15% .14% with a piece - this is the gas that has been delivered by more than 100 independent alternative suppliers, trading companies, which operate on the Polish gas market. I would add that this situation, which I am describing, is the current situation and will change dramatically from January 2023. Next year we launch Baltic Pipe, this is the pipeline from Norwegian deposits by Denmark near the Baltic Sea to Poland with a capacity of 10 billion m
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u24	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski with a supplementary question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u25	Minister! Indeed, the expansion of the Świnoujście pipeline, the planned opening of the Baltic Pipe gas pipeline, which will flow from Norway, allows us to recognise that our country is independent of Russian gas supply and will become independent at the end of 2022. I'd like to ask you a question. The Green Order Agreement signed in December 2019 within the European Commission... I would like to draw attention to the fact that, compared to the previous agreement, we are shortening the time for leaving coal energy by 11 years. We were supposed to leave her until 2060. Now we're talking about 2049. Therefore, there is a rather rapid need for construction in various locations in Poland of gas power plants. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do we have enough gas in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u26	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u27	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Thank you for that question. Indeed, it can be said that the situation is dynamic. The demand for gas in Poland will grow significantly in the 20s. We predict that in 2032 we will have an increase in gas consumption by 50%. Currently, the demand for natural gas in Poland is about 20 billion m. The key issue in this whole situation is the timely construction of gas blocks by energy companies, because we need to have a balance between possible carbon blocks, namely coal plants, and coal blocks, which will replace coal. In short, the gas blocks must be built by now, because the investment lasts 5 and we will need them by the mid-20s. There is a technical issue regarding the provision of connections, i.e. gas pipelines linking the gas transmission system with new gas blocks, but this is under the control of the Gas-System in agreement with the energy companies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u28	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question about the risk of losing European resources to the Lublin, Łódź, Małopolskie, Podkarpackie and Świętokrzyski provinces due to the adoption of anti-LGBT declarations and thus the failure to respect the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the position of the government in this matter. The question is addressed to the Minister of Funds and Regional Policy. The question is asked by Marek Owa. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u29	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The acceptance of the anti-LGBT declaration by the authorities of five voivodships is simply a source of shame. Today, in the case of Lubelskie, Łódź, Małopolskie, Podkarpackie and Świętokrzyskie voivodships, it is also a source of big problems. Let me remind you that one of the basic tasks of the local government is to conduct regional policy. To implement this policy effectively, you need the right tools and finances. Regional policy in Poland is mainly based on our membership in the European Union. The largest resources for regional development come from the European Union budget. Let me remind you that, during our membership of the European Union, we received over EUR 200 billion. Purely after deduction of the contributions, this is EUR 140 billion, i.e. over PLN 600 billion. Due to the failure to comply with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, these five voivodships have enormous problems. The REACT-EU programme is in danger and in fact halted. This is €126 million. There is also a blockade of regional programmes for 2021 and 2027. The European Commission clearly states that these regions will not be able to be managing bodies because they do not respect the Charter of Fundamental Rights. The settlement of existing funds from this perspective is at risk. I'm talking about those measures that haven't been certified yet. To date, the European Commission's dialogue has been ongoing since May. r., with voivodships, with the ministry, did not bring, as you can see, any effect. Moreover, local authorities have repeatedly confirmed this declaration, which is why I have a few questions. Exactly three. What is the government's position on this matter, Minister? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will you urge local governments to repeal these resolutions? Finally, are you considering some alternative model for implementing regional operational programmes in these five voivodships? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u30	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Minister Waldemar Buda, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u31	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, more storms in this matter than the facts and threats that you have spoken of. Indeed, we are in correspondence with the European Commission on this matter. Yesterday, the deadline expired, and we responded to that deadline, which was precisely given by Minister Anna Szmidt, who is the government's proxy for equality. Of course, very comprehensively, we answer the question of how to discriminate, because here we are talking about all aspects, including those concerning the spending of European funds, because this is an element, one of the threads on this issue. Our analysis, very precise - we had two months to do so - the whole system of implementing European measures points absolutely to one conclusion: firstly, the system is so designed that there is no possibility of discrimination when spending European funds at both regional and national level, and secondly, there are no real cases that would confirm that this system could be incorrectly constructed, i.e. there was no situation in which someone could be refused funds, grant, grant or loan parts because of the use of any discriminatory features. We are therefore concerned about the analysis of the system of all European spending in the next perspective, because it is absolutely not true that any procedure or question relates to the next perspective. No, there are no such questions about the next perspective. [[What about the partnership agreement?]] Of course, you pointed out five voivodships that are having different discussions with the European Commission today. It is not true that they have problems preparing regional programmes for the following years: 2021 and 2027. They really talk to the European Commission about this topic, but in the context of complementing and changing the programme in terms of REACT-EU. Our response yesterday, I believe, will be enough to bring these conversations smoothly to the finale, to the end. However, it must be made clear that there is no risk of losing funds because REACT-EU is a national envelope, so no euro will be lost on this issue and there is no deadline for agreeing to update the regional programmes of REACT-EU, so I am convinced that these programmes will be agreed in these five voivodships in a few weeks' time. For our part, if the Member asks, yesterday we asked all local authorities to examine their systems, resolutions, declarations for discrimination. We are not able to identify them, the ones that could be so qualified and which could not, but to all local governments, up to almost 3 thousand, we have addressed such a speech to verify the resolutions, the documents they have taken in recent years. Of course, if some have discriminatory, discriminatory elements, we suggest updating them to leave them in such a way that they do not raise the slightest doubts. Most of the time, it's a good idea, but one or two words can raise doubts. Therefore, we asked the local authorities not to have the slightest doubts. As a central unit, we have also taken this step from the point of view of spending European funds. On the other hand, it is not as the honourable Member points out that this issue, even if this correspondence, can have a real impact on the spending of European funds. [[But it's in writing.]] I have no doubt that discussions on the updating of regional programmes in these five regions will soon be completed after the last correspondence. I think this problem will be resolved, resolved within a few weeks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u32	Thank you kindly, Minister. Mr Michał Krawczyk will now ask a supplementary question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u33	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wonder why the Minister has so much confidence. This is the confidence that I also observe in the marshals of five voivodships, including Marshal Jarosław Stawiarski, Marshal of my voivodship, Lublin voivodship. I wonder if this is a shoe or a simple stupidity, because the Polish government and five Polish voivodships are getting another warning from the European Commission, the matter is getting more serious. September 14th, two days ago, another deadline. The Minister is talking about the response that has been sent to this warning letter and another warning from the European Commission may no longer be available. It seems that you are again keying, and the European Commission makes it clear: we are halting the negotiations on the REACT-EU programme for Lublin Voivodeship - PLN 120 million for health protection - until the anti-LGBT resolutions are repealed by the Sejmics of Voivodships. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask: Have you addressed this position directly to the European Commission? Thank you. I have another question... But, sir, time is up. One quick question. Is there a danger, Minister, that the funds to be allocated in the new programming period for five voivodships will go to other voivodships in Poland... [[Voice from the hall: You are in danger.]] That wasn't a short question. Thank you very much. ...and these five voivodships will be deprived? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u34	Minister, please respond. Mr Waldemar Buda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u35	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will refer to the last question: no, from Lublin or from these five regions, the funds will not be transferred to other regions. I'm sure we won't be taking anything from Lublin. If they want, we can only add. [[Applause]] As regards correspondence with the European Commission: yes, it is carried out. I'll repeat what I just said. However, it does not affect, firstly, the programming for the future perspective, secondly, the whole programme that works today. Take a look at the Marshal's office today, they're making decisions today, deciding the competitions. That's where life happens, even though you're presenting catastrophic visions here. On the other hand, as regards the update of the REACT-EU, concerning not only health protection, because it has three tasks in this area, today work will be resumed, I hope, after our speech yesterday. You have probably reached the correspondence that was addressed to the regions, and it appears that the continuation of the discussion on the update of the programme was conditional upon the government's reply on time. And we gave that answer yesterday. Minister Anna Schmidt has given a comprehensive answer to the 12 questions we have been asked. Therefore, I believe we are already in a completely different reality today. And probably this problem will be solved in the next few weeks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u36	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question was prepared by Wojciech Saługa, Krzysztof Gadowski, Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Paweł Pontyliusz, Marek Sowa, Gabriela Lenartowicz, on energy security of Poland and rising energy prices in the face of omissions related to the functioning of the energy system of Poland and the newly built accident - at the expense of PLN 6 billion - the power block in Jaworzno. The question is asked by Wojciech Salug.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u37	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! For starters, I'm handing over my thanks to you from thousands of miners, energy workers. For all the promises you've made over the last six years. That you wouldn't shut down any mines, that mining would get off your knees. To the buns that you handed out to President Duda under the mines during the campaign. For the wasted 1 billion PLN on Ostrołęka. For millions drowned in Grzegorz's shaft. And for a broken power plant in Jaworzno, which cost PLN 6 billion, which is managed by the head of the radio station of the Brzeszcze mine, a colleague from the school bench of Beata Szydło. [[Voice from the room: You should have studied.]] These six years have been well valued by your presidents. Presidents of companies of the State Treasury: PGNiG, PGE, Energi, Tauron, who valued the coal assets that you put into these companies until a few years ago, into 0 PLN. Literally - 0 PLN. I'm asking who's gonna answer for this. 'Cause I'm sure we know who's gonna pay for this. All Poles will pay at energy prices, at electricity prices that have already increased, and you are planning to increase them by another much more percentage. Going to the power block in Jaworzno, I will say that its retention may have all consequences, very many consequences, including the liquidation of several thousand jobs in Raciborz, in Rafako and in Jaworzno, in the Sobieski mine, which is to supply coal to this standing power block. The questions to the Minister are quite simple. Is it true that non-specific fuel was used during the use of the block? Is it true that the fuel was imported and not from the Sobieski mine? How will you complete the breach after the block has been removed from the Polish energy balance? How does this affect the safety of Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What day-to-day losses does a non-working block generate? And so on, and so on. Thank you very much. Time's up. Questions about immenseness, Minister. Thank you, sir. Please take this seriously and give us an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u38	Thank you very much. The question was addressed to the Minister of State Assets and the Minister of Climate and Environment. Ministers will answer the questions: Secretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets Artur Soboń and Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński. I don't know in what order, but you'll decide that by now. [[State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Artur Soboń: Ja.]] Minister Soboń. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that, indeed, on 11 June 2021 at the New Jaworzno power plant in the Tauron Group, an event took place which consisted in the sealing of the hydraulic fluid installation within the boiler of the bypass station. This caused fluid leaking into the heated valve body of the station, then the leak connected with the hot metal elements of the steam pipe. That's how the ignition went off. Fire fighting caused the situation to be contained. There was no danger to the workers or the environment. However, as a result of this incident, the engine of the reducer valve, the cabling of the station and the control cabinet were damaged. These repairs were quickly completed. At the time of inspection of the combustion chamber, the boiler was found simultaneously to damage the nozzles and the frame of the burners, as well as to damage the cold funnel of the combustion chamber. This has become the basis for halting the operation of the block together with the Technical Supervision Authority and preparing the corresponding front of the works, which will allow repair of nozzles, burner frames and boiler funnels. To this end, a committee was set up with the contractor, which also explains the reasons. I would like to tell you that this committee is already working, but the final results of its work, i.e. explaining the reasons for this event, will only be after the new block in Jaworzno is restarted and fully operational. Then there will be the final protocol of this committee. The date of repair and inclusion in the system of this block, expected by Tauron Polska Energia, will be 25 February. That is how this term is communicated. Of course, this is an investment process, so you have to take into account various types of events. I would also like to say that all information is public because the company is a listed company and that information is provided in its current reports. By the way, by the way, by the way, that's not how coal and energy companies today judge the Stock Exchange, investors. We have recently had record growths, so it is worth noting this too when talking about this type of scenario in public. Of course, we have a specific situation today, so to speak, in the energy market. This situation is due to climate policy, rising prices of CO In public space there was information on the dialogue on the implementation of this contract between Tauron Polish Energia and the consortium Rafako - Mostostal. I would like to say that this dispute is pending before the prosecutors and that as a result of the settlement of this dispute all issues will be clarified. As for this system, the 910 MW block in Jaworzno has a power contract, i.e. a contract concluded for the period from 1 January 2021 until the end of December 2035. Within the Tauron Group, however, due to the presence of other blocks in the system in the infrastructure group, this does not affect the power. There is also adequate management of the power market and the only risk is financial risk. This is, of course, the loss of the margin resulting from the operation of this block. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If it were to be accepted as the date of submission of the February block next year, it would be the amount of about PLN 200 million. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski will ask a supplementary question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are not interested in Europe, we and Poles are interested in Poland. Over the last years and last days we have been flooded with information that there will be jumping increases in the price of electricity for Poles. We already have a record price increase on the stock market today. This is a historic moment, so far there hasn't been a situation that this price has increased by almost 100% compared to last year. And today the Poles ask what happens next. They hear from the president of the Polish Energy Group that prices should be freed for households. What do you say to the Poles? What do you say you wasted six years and did nothing? These are your outposts, these are your icons of this savings. Construction of Ostrołęka - PLN 2 billion, and we are also talking about the acquisition from FDE of conventional power plants - PLN 6 billion, we are talking about Jaworzno - over PLN 6 billion for the construction of power plants. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What will you do with this energy poverty that will hit Poles hard? President Gawin says that the price of energy will reach more than double-digit growth. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u42	Thank you very much. Minister Arthur Soboń will answer the question, right? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Uh-huh. Please, Minister Guibourgé-Chetwertyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you so much for that question. He started by saying that we are not interested in Europe, but I think that in the market, which is connected, it is extremely important because what is happening on the European market is also important for the development of the energy market in Poland. And we see that there are high prices, that is what Minister Soboń referred to. At this point, actually prices in wholesale are in Poland almost the lowest in Europe. Why are these prices high? Several reasons are given here, among others. RES, which hasn't worked very well in the last few weeks, the economy that started after the pandemic. CO prices What are we doing in Poland in this situation? Investment and modernization of our energy mix are very important. Here is the strategy, I have talked about this many times, the energy policy of Poland, which represents a clear direction for the development of low-carbon energy. The strategies of our companies are also moving towards this kind of energy. These investments are very important, and in response to one of the previous questions, Minister Naimski spoke about, the investments made in ensuring energy security in gas development and investment in new capacities. Of course, we'll only be able to shut down these old blocks once they've been built. Until then, these existing blocks must be kept in good condition to ensure energy security. But what else do we do to address the problem especially to the most vulnerable? We strongly support the modernisation of district heating. We know that this is a very important sector that has a very significant impact on the level of energy accounts. We set aside PLN 0.5 billion for the district heating programme, we will also prepare a heating strategy, but we are also directing energy efficiency programmes in our latest draft law...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u44	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u45	...and new energy allowances for vulnerable customers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u46	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question prepared by Barbara Bartus, Lydia Burzyńska, Joanna Borowiak and Marek Asta from Law and Justice, on the implementation of the "Good start" programme supporting Polish families in preparing their children to start school at the beginning of the school year, addressed to the Minister of Family and Social Policy. The question is asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u47	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, It's been over two weeks since the new school year started. This year the return of children to schools was very expected, but every year Polish families, in which there are children of school age, were preparing to go to school. Every year it was very stressful because there were expenses associated with the purchase of a new backpack, crayons, pens. They have always been expenditures that have significantly burdened the budgets of Polish families. There were often restrictions on some holiday vacations, as money had to be placed on the child's proper equipment for school. For several years now, thanks to the programs introduced by the Law and Justice Government, starting with the flagship 500+ since April 2016, the Polish government has been helping families and helping children return to schools. There is also an additional program, in addition to 500+ and 300+ there is a good start. We have questions for the Minister because this programme is changing and the rules for submitting applications have also changed. Dear Minister, How many families, how many children have benefited from this program so far? What was it like in the years? How many applications have been submitted this year? Because we know that applications for 300+ can be submitted from 1 July to 30 November, so this period is extended. But surely, if they are to serve children, families to buy new school supplies, most families have already benefited from it. But how's that for the previous year? How many families last year, how many children have benefited from this program? What's it like this year? Are there any problems with obtaining these funds? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it easy? Thank you. 'Cause I don't think there's a lot of room for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u48	Thank you, Member. I kindly ask for your reply from the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Barbara Socha.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The good start programme is part of the family financial security system, the safeguards that the Law and Justice Government introduced at the very beginning at the time of the takeover of power in 2015. This is part of the system that significantly changed the financial situation of families in Poland. It has greatly contributed to reducing poverty, especially among families with children, in families with many children. The good start programme has been making it easier for families for a few years to start a school year, which is indeed such a sensitive moment, because the September budget in many families is very tight. The good start program ran and runs without any technical problems, organizational problems. So far, in earlier years, it was implemented, as was the programme of the This year we have decided on a change that Parliament has adopted. The Act entered into force in June and according to it from 1 July this year for the first time we have recruitment exclusively by electronic means and the payment is made by the Social Insurance Institution. This program concerns students. The benefit is granted to all children aged between 7 and 20 and for disabled persons up to 24 years of age. In total, about 4.5 million children benefit from it each year. This year, applications were submitted from 1 July and can be submitted by the end of November. This year, the parents applied for 4200 thousand. children. About 4400 thousand are authorized. children, and so it can be said that the vast majority of parents have already taken advantage of this possibility. There's actually 200,000 left. children who are constantly learning because parents have the right to submit them by the end of November. This means an increase compared to a similar time last year by about 250?260 thousand. conclusions. That means we had so much less at the same time last year. We are not receiving any signals related to any problems with these applications. Applications shall be submitted electronically by the PUE ZUS portal, by electronic banking or by the Empathy system of the family ministry. Applications are automatically verified and implemented by the Social Insurance Institution. One of the ZUS field units is involved - in Bialystok. Over 99% these applications are carried out automatically, the others are taken care of by ZUS employees. This is a programme that does not give rise to any problems for us due to this change, which is a very good forecast for the 500+ programme that is being revised today, which will also be implemented in a similar way from the next delivery period. Thanks to this change, we are able to save together in the perspective of this programme and the programme, the family of 500+.Very significant resources so far allocated to these programmes, which, of course, allows us to allocate them to other important objectives, including further programmes for families. We'll be talking about the nearest one in this room tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. I kindly ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to ask for a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Minister, for presenting this data, which is very satisfying not only to us parliamentarians, but above all Polish families and ministry, which is responsible for the implementation of the programme. It can be seen that all programs aimed at supporting Polish families bring tangible successes - on the one hand, joy for realizers and on the other hand improvement of the conditions of functioning of the Polish family. The Minister said that since 1 July, the form of raising these funds has been changed. I have a question, though. Many opponents, or otherwise, many people who want to appear in some way and prove themselves in the world of politics, claimed that this change would cause various types of perturbation, which was as usual fatal (The Bell) because the Minister said that the number of applications for this benefit was increased compared to last year. Question: "What are the reasons... Thank you. What were your reasons for changing the form of raising these funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u52	Thank you very much, Member. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u53	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The objective of this change, the objective of this revision and the changes in the rules for the implementation of this benefit, was, firstly, to simplify and optimise the processes and, secondly, to make the savings involved. The introduction of the principles of the digital state, the digitalisation of services, the modernisation of certain processes is as positive and necessary as possible. This is one of the steps on this road. As I said, thanks to these changes and in the 500+ programme, and in the 300+ programme, we are able to devote significant resources to service, to other new initiatives and to public finance. These are the amounts that are worth these changes. Especially since these changes, as experience shows, do not adversely affect the performance of these benefits, families do not have, do not report any problems with the submission of applications, also cashless payments are no problem here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u54	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Question addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure on the date of publication of the decision on proposals for the construction of bypasses located in the lines of voivodeship roads for 2021, prepared by Mr Rajmund Miller, Mr Waldy Dzikowski and Mr Jack Protas of the Civic Coalition. I ask Mr Rajmund Miller to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Within the framework of the Government Road Development Fund, the Ministry of Infrastructure has carried out a call for proposals for the construction of ring-roads located in voivodship roads, hereinafter referred to as ring road tasks, for 2021. The deadline for submission of applications was 21 May 2021. All voivodship local governments joined this program, including Opolskie voivodship, which submitted applications for the following three tasks: construction of the ring road of the city of Strzeleczki along the voivodship road No 409 PLN, construction of the ring road of the town of Głogówek within the voivodeship road No. 416.57 million PLN, construction of the ring road of the town of Nysa within the voivodeship road No. 411 and No. 489.78 million PLN. The total value of tasks reported by the Opolskie voivodship is PLN 163 million. Minister! To date, the results of this recruitment are unknown with a definition of which ring-roads have been qualified to be co-financed by the Government Road Development Fund. Delaying such an important decision may have a negative impact on the future costs of implementing these investments. The known level of material costs and labour costs will certainly change in the years to come, and the level of prices will increase. Today we are in a situation where at the end of the year regional governments are planning budgets for the next year. Please take these decisions as soon as possible and I ask the Minister to respond in writing. Of course, this also applies to other bypasses in the country, roads, road investments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u56	Thank you, sir. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber to reply. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u57	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Members, Mr. Member! Gentlemen! First of all, I thank you very warmly for this question and for emphasising the importance of government support for road investments, which are implemented by local authorities. I think this is the best proof that the Government of Law and Justice, like no other before, ensures that road infrastructure is maintained in an appropriate way, including the road infrastructure that lies on the side of local government, communal, district and voivodeship. The main programme through which we achieve this goal is the government programme, the Government Road Development Fund. This fund was established by law in October 2018 and has been operational since 2019. In the previous year, also the decision, first the government, because it is a government initiative and later the Sejm, the Senate and the President, we decided to extend the operation of the Government Road Development Fund and allocate PLN 2 billion to finance the construction of bypasses in the lines of the voivodeship roads. I repeat, there has never been such a program dedicated to voivodship routes before. It is worth noting, it is worth talking about, because this is, as I said earlier, the best proof of the concern of the current government for road infrastructure, including the local government. As regards the recruitment carried out by the Ministry of Infrastructure, the call for funding for the construction of bypasses in voivodeship roads was announced on 21 April 2021 and on 21 May was the last day for submission of applications. However, according to the Act, I stress, according to the Act, the Ministry of Infrastructure has 3 months from the end of recruitment for the transmission of the letter for approval by the President of the Council of Ministers. We sent these letters to the Chancellery of the Prime Minister at the end of July this year, so that before this statutory deadline. The second stage of the selection is the examination and approval of the letter by the President of the Council of Ministers. This procedure follows directly from the law which set up the Government Road Development Fund, and we are obliged to follow this procedure. So that's the way it is right now. I would add that the President of the Council of Ministers is not bound by any time limit for taking his decision. The Act does not order the decision and approval of the letter by the President of the Council of Ministers within a time limit, I do not know, 1, 2 or 3 months, there is no such provision, therefore the Prime Minister has any time to approve these letters. Such decisions cannot be made on an ad hoc basis. Firstly, these are very large funds, I stress, 2 billion PLN. Secondly, and I can say that competition here was also very large, because, as you rightly pointed out, every governor of the province has used, I am talking here about the marshal's office, the possibility of taking part in this recruitment. This recruitment could also be attended by city presidents on the rights of the county, who manage the voivodship infrastructure. There were also several applications submitted by city presidents on the rights of the county. Really, such decisions can't be made quickly. It should be taken first and foremost well. But I hope that soon the President of the Council of Ministers will approve the letters, they will be published. We as the Ministry of Infrastructure are already ready to sign contracts, because we will be the party to the agreement, the other party will be the local government manager, so that we are ready to impose beneficiaries on contract projects, sign contracts with them, so that these tasks are carried out as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u58	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Waldy Dzikowski with a supplementary question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. Minister! He also stressed the issue of the Opole region, i.e. these three projects. I understand that they are in this database of all projects and are analysed. I wanted to ask you in more detail on this question in general, i.e. We are aware that the law provides for 3 months of consideration and termination of recruitment, which began on 21 May, for bypass tasks, but we also know very well that local governments, in addition to the planning of funds in their budget and the arrangement of the entire investment strategy, must know well in advance, also starting the tendering procedure... Determination and termination of recruitment in one time for all local governments of voivodships, and all submitted three, a little bit, may, so to speak, lead to difficulties in the settlement of these tenders, as well as possibly a rise in prices (the bell), i.e. then competition will become so big that such a quick approach and directly to this topic can cause such and not other perturbations in the investment process of individual local governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u60	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I cannot confirm what the Member has said that all the regional governments have submitted three proposals. Indeed, they had the opportunity, but not all submitted three applications. That's one thing. Secondly, the tasks or investments to be carried out by local authorities in accordance with the documents submitted are at different stages. In fact, some are ready to announce a tender for construction, already have design documentation, even have a decision to allow road investment, others are ready to announce a tender only for the project, and yet others are only at the stage of the idea, as if in the investment plan. Getting to this last stage, i.e. getting environmental decisions - it takes two to three years. So that the execution tenders will be announced by the marshals' offices, by the marshals in the next few years, not in just one year. The Act, which established the Government Road Development Fund, gives the possibility to carry out tasks in a multi-annual manner, i.e. not in 1 year or 12 months, only in a multi-annual, 3-, 4-, 5-year mode. These tasks are large - and we are talking about bypasses, they are usually large tasks, and there are also large tasks, as I remember, there are applications for even more than 200 million PLN, so that it is a long road - they must necessarily be carried out in a multi-annual manner, so these implementation tenders will only be announced when all decisions are obtained, e.g. environmental decisions on the specific course of these specific road tasks. I will repeat, in principle, that I hope that within the next few weeks the President of the Council of Ministers will approve these lists and will be familiar with the list of all beneficiaries who will benefit from this government funding for the construction of bypasses in voivodeship roads. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u62	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question on the timetable of the construction programme of 100 bypasses, including Kalisz bypasses, addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and prepared by Members Jan Mosiński, Piotr Kaleta, Zbigniew Dolata and Witold Czarnecki, Law and Justice. The question is asked by Mr Jan Mosiński. You're welcome. The card needs to be put on.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u63	Yeah, yeah. Dear Minister, The politicians of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party have repeatedly promised, made declarations concerning the construction of bypasses of those cities which did not have such bypasses. Of course, in many cases these promises were uncoverable, so it was with great joy that the public took note of the powerful program announced by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki - the programme of construction of 100 bypasses between 2020 and 2030. The cost of this programme was estimated at almost 28 billion PLN. We know that the main objective of this programme is to improve safety on our roads, to bring transit traffic beyond the borders of cities, to improve the comfort of the inhabitants' lives. Thanks to this decision in 100 cities, 100 towns - but this is of course more forward-looking, because these bypasses can also benefit local residents - the comfort of life will improve, but also the safety that I mentioned will improve. On behalf of the people of Kalisz, I wanted to thank the Minister once again, and also the Minister of Infrastructure for the fact that Kalisz was on the 100 bypass programme. I would therefore ask the Minister to answer the question about the overall timetable for the construction of 100 bypasses in the years 2020 to 2030, including the Kalisz bypass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u64	Thank you, sir. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber to reply. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we have these questions for the Ministry of Infrastructure, which are asked both by Members of the Sejm majority and by the opposition Members, and are related to one subject - the construction of the ring road. Although here in the voivodeship roads, and Mr Mosiński, Minister, asks about national roads, this shows what the needs are at the moment as regards road investments in our country and, on the other hand, also shows that the Government of Law and Justice is simply fulfilling these needs. There is one programme of construction of 100 bypasses in national roads, within the framework of the Government Road Development Fund, support for the construction of bypasses in voivodship roads, and that means that we approach these communication problems in a system rather than a point way. Not out there, let's say, one at a time, but in a comprehensive way, we want to solve these problems that have occurred for many, many years. The government's programme of construction of 100 bypasses, mentioned by Minister Jan Mosiński, was actually created with the intention of eliminating narrow transport bottlenecks on national roads. We have seen many such places that need improvement, hence the decision of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to create this programme and, above all, to secure funds for this purpose. Almost 28 billion PLN - this will cost us this investment. Here I want to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, but also the Ministry of Finance - Minister Piotr Patkowski is here with us. Cooperation in this area is really very good, the Ministry of Finance does not save money for road investments, so we can implement them. As far as the programme itself is concerned, it was announced by Minister Andrzej Adamczyk in February 2020, then those investments which are on the basic list and are currently in progress were identified. This is 100 road tasks. These investments are carried out throughout Poland. We did not want to exclude any region from this program, therefore the larger voivodships such as the Mazowieckie voivodship or the Wielkopolskie voivodship, and smaller voivodships: Opolskie, Świętokrzyskie are included in this program. At this moment 13 contracts for the construction of bypasses were signed, at the tender stage there is one investment - Strykowa bypass on the national road no. 32 and yet this year we are planning to announce another two tendering procedures for the construction of the bypass of Gorayc and Koźmin Wielkopolski bypass on the national road No. 15. So that this process is progressing very strongly and is consistently implemented by the Ministry of Infrastructure. As far as the Kalisz ring road is concerned, I must admit that Kalisz is such a natural beneficiary of this programme, as it is probably the most heavily burdened city in Poland. The average daily traffic burden is up to 25,000. vehicles within one 24-hour period. It's really a lot, and it's surprising that there's been no government initiative to build this city's ring road before. And I very much thank the Members of this district, Mr Jan Mosiński, Mr Piotr Kaleta, for signaling us this problem, for stressing that this issue needs to be resolved, that it is simply Kalisz's ring road that needs to be implemented. Work is currently underway on the multi-criterial analysis of the existing three variants of the Kalisz ring road construction along the national road No 25. The work carried out by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways seeks to identify the best, i.e. the optimal option. All options are assessed on the basis of this analysis. The choice of the best option on individual sections does not preclude the creation of a result option, which may arise from a combination of different options, of course if this is practically possible. The final option of the Kalisz ring road will be identified on the basis of a multi-criterial analysis which contains environmental, social, technical and economic aspects. Thanks to the analysis developed, and it is at the final stage at the moment, it will be possible to decide on the option recommended for the application for an environmental decision. The selected Kalisz bypass will be indicated in the application for an environmental decision as a preferred option. According to our schedule, this is to take place in the 2nd quarter of next year, i.e. in the 2nd quarter of next year the General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways Branch in Poznań will submit a request for an environmental decision on the Kalisz ring road. Then, after obtaining such a decision (the bell), we will have to tender for the programme concept, which is to clarify from the technical point of view the course of this route. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kaleta with a supplementary question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u67	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this declaration. Of course, as a South Wielkopolska resident, Kalisz resident I am very interested in this subject and I would like it to happen as soon as possible. I just wanted to ask, Minister, about the cooperation or consultation with local governments. We've had such a suggestion lately that there's not so much conflict there as some kind of misunderstanding. The point is that these consultations are stuck at some point, and local government officials are sort of digging into their positions. That's the first line. And two: Is the concept of building this ring road up, also temporarily, when it comes to the S11 project connecting Ostrów Wielkopolski and Kórnik? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u68	Thank you, sir. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, when developing a given project, not only must it be said: it is condemned but also wants to cooperate with the local government. It is clear that local authorities, through which a given road investment takes place, in this case the bypass, want to influence its course, its shape. We try to meet these expectations wherever possible, of course, where we can just do it. Sometimes these expectations are excessive, sometimes for various reasons, mostly environmental, they are impossible to achieve, but where there is a possibility, we try to realize those expectations. This is where it happened. That's the situation. At the request of one of the mayors, perhaps the mayor of Nowe Skalmierzyc, an additional variant or sub-option of the Kalisz ring road was considered. Like I said, it was an option, or it's still an option. So that the local government side is a natural partner for the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways as regards the implementation of such investments, and in particular for the implementation of ring road investments. On the other hand, with regard to the construction of the S11 expressway, there is another good news for residents of all regions through which this expressway will run. I will remind you that it connects Central Pomerania with Upper Silesia, running through the Wielkopolska Voivodeship. Well, as part of the government's national road construction programme, which is a very large investment component of the Polish Load, we have secured funds for the implementation of this investment over the entire length. So that when we are ready to announce the implementation tenders, these measures will be mobilised. I think this is another proof, I stress: another proof that we do not spare money and do not spare organizational efforts to improve road infrastructure throughout Poland. Of course, these main tasks are the task of building new road tracks, whether it's highways or bypasses, but we also modernize the old roads, we act pointlessly, even within the so-called. a secure infrastructure programme, improving infrastructure related to vulnerable road users. So that a number, you can say: thousands of investments are carried out all over Poland. All we need is time and a little happiness to prove it to the very end. And I hope that in the case of the Kalisz ring road, but also the construction of the S11 expressway will be that way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u70	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the question addressed to the Minister of Finance on the rating of Poland by Fitch. The question is prepared by Waldemar Andzel, Zdzisław Sipiera, Joanna Lichocka and Jarosław Krajewski from Law and Justice. The question is asked by Mr Waldemar Andzel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u71	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Polish economy under the rule of law and justice is developing very well. In August, the credit rating agency Fitch submitted a decision to maintain an A-level rating for Poland as regards long-term liabilities in foreign currency. The rating outlook remains stable. Please submit other assessments for Poland made by Fitch agency. In addition, please indicate Fitch's forecast for Poland's economic growth. What is the assessment of Poland by Fitch against other countries of the European Union, given the economic impact of the Coronavirus pandemic? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u72	Thank you very much. Please respond kindly to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Piotr Patkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to this question, it is worth to start with why rating agencies are important to us. These are completely independent, not only from national countries, but also from the European Commission, bodies that not only assess the economic stability of countries in general, but also penetrate budget forecasts, forecasts of GDP growth or inflation. It is worth noting that, of course, the overall assessment itself is important for us, but Fitch, in addition to forecasting GDP growth this year and in the following years, also refers to the projected deficit of the entire sector in this and the following year. Why is this important? This is important in the context of the allegations that the government allegedly hides public expenditure, that outside the so-called. Official deficits are being pushed out streams of money that you can't see anywhere. Fitch's reviews, but also other credit rating agencies, are lying about it. If we look at what Fitch says in his official communications, we will see that he provides very clear and precise data on the deficit of the entire sector, i.e. all expenditure incurred by the public sector in Poland, including PFR, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego fund and any other funds. Since the government itself in the explanatory memorandum of the Budget Act gives the amount of this deficit and the credit rating agencies give the amount of this deficit, then it is not possible to talk about the government's concealment of any debt. If that's official data, you can't talk about secrecy. Turning to the details of what Fitch has shown, it is worth noting that when it comes to debt ratings in foreign currencies in Poland, the long-term assessment remains unchanged. That's the grade. And? The short-term assessment for foreign currencies was raised to F1 from F2. In the case of the national currency, it remained unchanged; is it A? and short-term F1. As regards the detailed projections for macroeconomic indicators for the Polish economy, the forecast for economic growth for this year is 5.2%. That's more than we expect as a Polish government, because we anticipate 4.9. Next year... And this is an increase from 4.4, which is Fitch itself raising the growth forecast for this year. 4.5% will be in 2022 and 3.8% - in 2023. With regard to the inflation forecast, which is the most recent indicator of interest, this is 3.9% next year. , and for 2023, 3,6%. So Fitch shows that in 2023, we're going to start going back to the maximum inflation target, but still set by the NBP. This is also very important information. As far as the general government deficit forecast is concerned, I will stress once again, taking into account all public expenditure, that is 5% for 2021. That's less than the Polish government expects. This is due to the fact that Fitch does not foresee the full use of anti-crisis tools, i.e. debt from the Anti-Action Fund COVID-19 and PFR - 3.8% in 2022 and 3% in 2023. So, according to Fitch in 2023, we will now return to the full consolidation of public finances required by the Maastricht Treaty. As far as government debt is concerned, which I will emphasise again, the entire debt, including all national funds, is expected to be 57,5% by 2020 in 2023,55.3%. We are still below the maximum limit of debt set by the Constitution. It is also worth noting that in its forecasts Fitch did not take into account the effects of the introduction of the Polish Load program, a program which may further raise our macroeconomic indicators - i.e. we still have a reserve for possible growth. When it comes to showing macroeconomic indicators of Poland against other countries, it is worth to point out here that Poland, as I said at the beginning, remains unchanged outside the ranking of foreign currencies for short-term debt. On the other hand, the credit assessment for the European Union has changed 19 times, including five times from stable to negative. A change in the credit assessment occurred in four countries. Fitch increased the credit assessment for Greece and Lithuania and reduced it for Slovakia and Italy. Now I'm going to give examples of a few countries. For Austria, the outlook has changed from positive to stable, i.e. the assessment has been reduced. For Belgium, it's stable to negative. For Croatia and Cyprus - with positive for stable. For Finland - with positive for stable. For France, it's stable to negative. Greece, as I have already mentioned, has an assessment raised from stable to positive. Lithuania - with positive for stable. Latvia - stable to negative. Malta - with positive for stable. Portugal - with positive for stable. Romania - stable to negative. Italy - from negative to stable, which means here is an increase. This shows, however, that most countries have a change of perspective to be worse, which, given the scale of the current crisis, is still not a very devastating change for these economies. However, Poland is on the plus side, the more that this perspective remains the same for us (the bell), i.e. it has not been reduced, and secondly, in one element it has been increased yet. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u74	Thank you very much, Minister. The supplementary question will be asked by Mr Zdzisław Sipiera. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u75	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Listening to the opposition, we hear that finance, which is currently very actively used in Poland to conduct economic policy, but also social policy, are in a tragic state. The Minister said that ratings, including, among others, ratings. Fitch's rating shows otherwise, shows a very stable financial situation of Poland. My question is: What is the real significance of this rating, Minister? Because it seems that there is no emotion here, but there are specific assessments that rely on the study of public finances. How this translates into the Polish economy and what the effect is just such sustainability ratings as regards the possibility for foreign investors to invest in Poland? Because this is a very important thing, especially when - as also the Minister said - we start Poland's Load and we need to infiltrate Poland's capital as well as our own investments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u76	Thank you very much. Minister Patkowski will answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! It's got a few. The first basic is that, as I pointed out, these predictions of Fitch, but also of other credit rating agencies, are very similar to those of the government itself. Poland presents in macroeconomic assumptions, both in terms of GDP growth, inflation and debt. This means that our view of the economy and our macroeconomic models are not really different from what other countries present. It has such a translation that, in turn, the budget, which is then based on these macroeconomic tables, is created on very solid grounds and conditions, and if, hypothetically, the European Commission or credit rating agencies were to create a budget based on these macroeconomic assumptions, it would have come out in the same indicators. This gives absolute certainty and stability that the tax revenue then established will be very similar to what we assumed... Or positive. The second importance such credit rating agencies have is the impact on the profitability of fiscal securities issued by Poland in order to cover debt. The more positive the rating of Poland, but also the closer macro-economic readings to those presented by the Polish government, the more certainty investors are when it comes to investing in these bonds. This is why we can talk today about the record low profitability of fiscal securities issued by Poland. Of course, this is influenced by a number of other factors, but positive ratings of credit rating agencies do not harm and are a guarantee that Poland can actively operate in the placement of bonds on foreign markets. Of course, the third thing that you also mentioned, the stable macroeconomic assessment of Poland by rating agencies, is a guarantee for foreign investors, but also for Polish investors or foreign investors who already operate in Poland and wish to expand their business. Because this is a guarantee that Poland is a macroeconomically stable country to invest, it is a certainty that Poland is also a country where profits from its business activity can be actively predicted. This is also some of the reasons that are important to us when it comes to credit rating agencies, but the most important thing is that, contrary to what is said, the government hides public expenditure, that the government misconstrues macroeconomic indicators, it is precisely the ratings of the European Commission's credit rating agencies that are clearly lying about it, because they are really very similar to what is provided for in the budget law. Finally, I would like to draw your attention. With regard to credit rating agencies, the European Commission is fortunate to be able to change its assessment on a quarterly basis and adjust GDP growth forecasts on a quarterly basis. We, as a government, can only do this once a year because we don't update the budget every quarter. It is all the more exciting that we, having this more difficult situation, which is four times less (the bell) able to revise our macroeconomic indicators, are still in what these rating agencies present. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u78	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question prepared by Mr Latos, Mr Gonciusz, Mr Hoca, Ms Anna April, Ms Elżbieta Duda, Ms Płonka and Ms Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, Mr Law and Justice, on the state of preparation of health care for a possible IV wave of SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, addressed to the Minister of Health. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Latos. You're welcome. [[Can you hear me?]] No, you have to put the card in the reader, sir, or on the speaker, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u79	I think you can hear me now. Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The world has been struggling with the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic for a year and a half. We have already had three waves of pandemic and, of course, the government must take and prepare for the possible coming of the fourth wave. We have a drop in disease at the moment, although in recent weeks, unfortunately, there is more and more disease, which unfortunately - we have last year's experience - may suggest that in a few weeks again the level of disease will be Tall and we'll be dealing with the fourth wave. Of course, we all hope that it will not be as high as before the second or third, also because about half of the population is vaccinated. This is, of course, an insufficient level and the ministry, the whole government, is taking huge steps to ensure that as many people as possible are vaccinated. Nevertheless, I would like to know, as Members asking the question, what are the plans, what are the ministry's actions, precisely as regards the possible coming of the fourth wave. It's a matter of how it's gonna be solved. Again, the issue of single-name hospitals or COVID branches in individual other hospitals - how will this work? That the case is serious, for example, they show Israeli statistics, where, despite the high level of implantation, there are more and more diseases again. Well, Minister, it seems that the question of these preparations is very valid. By the way, I would like to thank and congratulate (The Bell) all health workers, including the Ministry for their previous activities in COVID, for their great determination and just professional preparation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u80	Thank you, sir. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Waldemar Kraska, will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u81	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps I would ask a slightly different question as to the possible fourth wave, because this fourth wave, Mr President, is in fact already in our country and the preparations that we have made practically after the previous wave, are already working at the moment. That's all we've prepared, we've already implemented and it's working. Of course, the most important weapon we can use in order to minimize this fourth wave, so that these new cases are as small as possible, but also in order for as few Poles to go to Polish hospitals and as few Poles to use the help of ventilators, are vaccinations. This is something we have already talked about in this House many times. Experts suggest that in order for population resistance to be at a good level, approximately 80% must be vaccinated. Polish society, especially since the Delta variant, which at the moment practically 100% It dominates our country, is far more contagious and we can be more easily infected. Unfortunately, daily vaccinations have been lost in recent periods. I hope that the information that we provide every day about the increase in the number of new infections, especially since these daily cases arrive every day - if we compare a week to a week, this is an increase of almost 50%, which is very large - will make Poles get vaccinated, because this is the only way to reduce the possible effects of the fourth wave. Today we have 99 450 thousand in Poland. purchased vaccines - from five companies - so the number of vaccines is adequate. More than 19 million Poles are fully vaccinated. At the moment in Poland, more than 35 thousand are vaccinated daily at vaccination sites. persons. I'll remind you that at the top of the day there were 200 and 300 thousand vaccinated. persons. Vaccinations are carried out in more than 9.5 thousand. points. Recently, a company of apothecaries has joined the vaccination process, and at the moment we can also inoculate in 804 pharmacies. I think it's a very comfortable form. We have greatly expanded the potential of laboratories that investigate patients suspected of COVID-19. These labs are 320 right now. As far as 24-hour potential is concerned, we can do 192,000 within 24 hours. tests, but we also handed over almost 2 million so-called. antigen tests that have gone to hospitals in emergency rooms, to SORs and to primary health care, where this test can be performed by POZ doctors. We also have about 500 mobile points today, so-called. Drive-thru points where we can also perform the test. There is still a team working on genome testing and SARS-CoV-2 mutation. Experts say it makes sense if we study about 5% all positive samples. At the moment, the power we have in our country are laboratories focused mainly around sanitary and epidemiology stations and medical universities. For today, we can do 6,000 a week. such sequences of variants of coronavirus mutation. As far as medical rescue is concerned, we leave to this end all solutions that have been applied so far, and we also leave to the voivodships the possibility of additional contracts to finance the tasks of additional medical rescue teams. If there is a need, then of course such teams will also be created. About the so-called. The bed base is 6068 beds for today. Beds within the second level, i.e. de facto dedicated only to patients with COVID-19, are over 3,000. As of today we have 12 temporary hospitals active, which have 620 beds, the number of which can be modularly increased in a moment. We've got 11 temporary hospitals on standby. passive, which are fully equipped, have equipment, infrastructure and can gradually employ medical staff, which is of course the responsibility of the voivodships. When it comes to preparing for the fourth wave, we have slightly changed our philosophy in relation to hospital treatment. The previous division into three levels has now been converted into two levels. The first level includes buffer beds. Practically every hospital these beds are between three and five. Level two includes beds dedicated to patients with COVID-19. We have also recreated resources (The Bell) from the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. These resources are already practically restored.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u82	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko will ask a supplementary question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u83	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I thank the Minister very much for this detailed information, because we have learned that indeed the experience of the first, second or third wave has been used to build a strategy in terms of possible preparation for the fourth wave. I would also like to join Mr Latos' thanks to the Minister and to all the staff of the Ministry, but above all to all the health workers who, with such dedication, often saved human life in a difficult time of pandemic. Minister! You've said a lot about vaccination and their role in reducing the fourth wave scale. I have this question: What are the hospitalization rates of non-vaccinations? How many non-vaccine patients do we have in hospitals? What do these indicators look like in the case of (The Bell) deaths? I'd also like to ask... Thank you very much. Time, Member. Are you also providing additional funding for employees, as was the case with the third wave, in the fight against COVID?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u84	Thank you very much, Member. Minister Waldemar Kraska. You're welcome. Hang in there, ladies and gentlemen, time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u85	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Indeed, this is a good question, because the opponents of vaccination still question their legitimacy, they say that it does not work, that vaccinated people also go to Polish hospitals. However, statistics, which are published on the pages of the Ministry of Health each week, show that it is definitely the other way around. The vaccine that is given and causes immunisation against SARS-CoV-2 infection does not protect us 100%. We all know that. But it definitely relieves the symptoms of a possible infection after two doses when we are already immune. The data that we receive from Polish hospitals shows that more than 80% varies in the following days, even up to 90%, these are uninsulated individuals who obtain a positive result of the Coronavirus test. These are also those people who go to Polish hospitals. So this percentage is very high. The same is true of people who have been vaccinated, who have died, but this is most often not associated with coravirus infection, but with underlying diseases. That's over 80%. people over the age of 70 who are suffering from additional diseases. These data, which we receive and publish, show that vaccinations are at the moment most appropriate in these risk groups, i.e. those over the age of 70. Most often they also have other diseases, and the most people in this group are unfortunately hospitalized, but also most of them die. Their implantation is now above 80%. We are still asking, but also family doctors - because they especially have access to this group of their patients - encourage and promote vaccinations in this group. I think that these data clearly show that it is worth to vaccinate, that the vaccine protects us from the disease, and if we get sick, this course will be much milder and not have such effects as complications in terms of health or death. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u86	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the last question. Mr Marek Rutka will ask a question prepared by the Members of the club Lewis. The question of increasing the salaries of medical workers and how to mitigate the government's dispute with medical practitioners. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u87	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 400 hours a month may be the easiest and at the same time the worst option. You've got money to pay for your credit, you can afford a new car, but you're demoting your life. You don't have a family. You don't have time. You've got nothing but work. All you can do is work to death. The question is, what's next? Who's gonna save us? People who work for 400 hours will have strokes and heart attacks at a very young age and will be a terrible social cost. The rulers don't see it, they don't understand it. That's why we've been saying this for years: medical rescue needs profound systemic changes - it's part of an interview given by Karol Bączkowski, medical rescuer with a 13-year internship for the Market Health Market. There are thousands of rescuers like Mr. Charles in Poland. Every day they're all on the front line fighting for our lives and our health. An ambulance without a lifeguard is just a car. Just a car and nothing else. When the pandemic was debilitated, power quickly forgot about the dedication and heroism of health care workers. Heroes behind the lowest national - that's how medical rescuers are often defined. They were all supposed to return to the system and to the same earnings as before the pandemic. A white town grew up under the windows of the Prime Minister's office last Saturday. After 14 years, doctors, nurses, physiotherapists and paramedics returned to the same place. They went back to the same place to claim their rights, but also the rights of patients, all of us. It is worth recalling that in 2007, when they set up their tents for the first time, there was also Law and Justice in power. Let us not be deceived by government propaganda and pro-government media that greedy medics are all about money. Power-enhancing media are based on the tax data of the Ministry of Finance. Those records tell us about taxes. These include all the revenues of medical staff, not necessarily those related to healthcare, and at the same time suggest that the median doctor's salary of PLN 16 700 is the payout they receive from a single job. That's not true. These are total salaries, which are made up of staff, sometimes two, sometimes three, and a gigantic number of overtime, such as those of a 39-year-old anesthesiologist from Wałbrzych, who died 96 hours after work during the week. Systemic pathologies include the universality of civil law contracts. On August 26th, I completed my parliamentary control in the capital emergency. Of the 579 medical paramedics working in the Warsaw emergency room, only six were employed. And question: How systemically the Ministry of Health intends to solve the problem of overworking medical professionals and this... Thank you. ...that a large number of medical rescuers and nurses are being pushed out... Thank you, sir. ...and to put it simply, forced to enter into civil law agreements?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u88	I ask you to answer me very carefully, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Waldemar Kraska. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u89	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If you don't mind, I will answer this question in a very general way, because the Minister for Health Adam Niedzielski will be speaking in this Chamber in a moment and will also address the pay issues in very detail, Mr Niedzielski. So I may be very general, but also as a doctor, because I've been working in the field for over 30 years, and not only as a surgeon in the O.R., but also as an ambulance doctor. I know this profession, the nature of this work, and the responsibility of people who provide emergency assistance, in situations where we are properly condemned as medical practitioners, because we are in a 2- or 3-person team and we make decisions that unfortunately have a great consequence in terms of the patient's health condition, which then goes to the hospital emergency department or goes to the hospital further. Certainly, as the Member has said, it is very important to pay these workers, because this work is definitely hard. I also strongly believe that we should work on employment contracts. I think that the employment contract, apart from guaranteeing certain privileges for this person, also somehow ties the employee to the workplace, he is responsible for the place where he works. I'm definitely in favour of employment contracts, too, not contracts. But if we look at the medical environment, here the sentences are divided, but some want to work on contract contracts and I think we can't just impose this form of employment contract on them. I think that the increase in wages, which has certainly taken place in the last few years, is also an aspect of the fact that working conditions have definitely improved. It is certainly about the last year, 2020, when COVID visited Poland, and about the so-called. COVID supplement, which was intended for people who had direct contact with a patient with COVID-19. This is a 100% bonus, which was a great effort for our country, because I will remind you that the National Health Fund paid over PLN 7745 million for this. It was money addressed to employees who were on the front line. In addition, it works all the time, and today it also gathers, a triangular team. In this team a minimum wage law was drawn up, passed by this House, which raised the salary of people who made very little money in the Polish health service. It's been raised. Today, this trialogue will also work and attend the meeting of the Tripartite Group at noon. 13 representatives of the protest committee were invited. I think that this team is also working right now and will be working on changing salaries in health care, because we all know that these salaries should certainly increase. Of course, those amounts presented by the protest committee are unbearable in the budget next year as regards the Ministry of Health. That's why we want to talk, we want to meet, we want to set up some space for conversation, we want to negotiate. But there's a basic condition: you have to meet, you have to talk about it. Your Marshal, I would like to finish this because I don't want to give you a heads-up on some information that Minister Adam Niedzielski will be giving you in a few minutes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. The supplementary question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński. You're welcome, sir. And stick to the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u91	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister: How does the Ministry intend to financially help hospitals that could not perform contracts and could not perform those contracts because the Ministry introduced changes in their activities and restrictions on the COVID-19 pandemic? Currently, the National Health Fund is taking action to enforce financial advances received from hospitals for operations, treatments and other medical procedures which could not take place due to restrictions on the operation of those hospitals. The Ministry's declarations on this matter were quite different from the current reality introduced by the National Health Fund. So, Minister, is the Ministry of Health planning to carry out the abolition on advances transferred to Polish hospitals, which today have to return them... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. ...to the National Health Fund? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u92	Thank you very much, sir. Minister, will you answer again? Come on in. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But are we moving on to the next point? [[Voice from the room: But there was a question.]] Minister, quick decision. Do you answer the question now? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u93	Mrs. Marshal! Membership! Indeed, at the moment, we have also extended this abolition by the end of the year in terms of returning these 1/12. We also think that hospitals - because mostly we are talking about hospitals - during the period when we have this health debt after the pandemic, and before us also the fourth wave is still catching up. We are aware that it is not always possible to make up for it in all specializations, so here, together with the National Health Fund, we are constantly analysing the situation and these decisions that will be made will certainly not harm Polish hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u94	Thank you, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information on the state of emergency in health care, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland, will be discussed. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u95	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Today we bring to the meeting a point on the information of the Prime Minister on the state of emergency in health care, the state of emergency for patients by negligence, the reluctance to dialogue, the lack of proposals to resolve social conflict, the lack of proposals for systemic solutions by the government. Today we need to move this issue to parliamentary level because the government does not have social dialogue, did not take advantage of the invitation to the white town. Together with the members of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party Club, we were just in a white town, we talked. They renew their invitation, Minister, for you, for the Prime Minister. On 7 April 2020, you clapped to doctors. We all clapped. Only today the Prime Minister doesn't care about doctors and he doesn't go to them for a meeting. On their behalf, I present the points they are seeking, the demands they are fighting for. This is faster than the planned increase in healthcare expenditures up to 8% GDP, increase the salaries of health professionals to average levels in the OECD and the European Union vis-à-vis the national average, increase the number of workers in the health system to average levels in the OECD and the European Union, including the number of additional administrative staff and auxiliary staff, the introduction of employment standards dependent on the number of patients, the real increase in the valuation of medical benefits, lump sums and so-called. extracurriculars and improving patient's availability to benefits, improving the quality of medical services, improving the quality of medical care, nursing, physiotherapeutic, rehabilitation, pharmaceutical services, increasing access to modern forms of laboratory and imaging diagnostics, the adoption of a law on laboratory medicine, the profession of a medical emergency worker and other medical professions, the introduction of health leave after 15 years of professional work, the provision of medical professions with the status of a public officer. When you formed the government, especially the Prime Minister in his speeches said that health would be a priority, that he would devote everything to fulfilling the demands of those who work for the patient. There's a patient at the center of these demands. Not only better wages, better quality of work, but above all patient and availability of health care. Minister, your predecessor, Minister Szumowski, signed a health pact. We've committed to it, too. I signed it, it was signed by Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, Mr. Robert Biedron. Four election committees, four parties that later created parliamentary clubs. But you don't want to do it. One of the questions we just received from the protesters was addressed to us. Are you willing to cooperate with the government to carry out our demands? I answer on behalf of my club: I am ready to work with you, with the Prime Minister, so that we can carry out these demands together and continue to implement them in the next term of office, because there is no way to reform health care within one term. This is very difficult without agreement with the opposition. But that's what we have to do with our commitments. Why didn't Minister Szumowski, when he won the elections, once again formulate the government, implement the demands under which he signed? [[Voice from the Chamber: Already to the Seym...]] Why didn't he implement postulates on dentists, long-term care, environmental care in the field of psychiatry, an increase in the number of children's psychiatrists? That's what he signed off on. I'm not just talking about these very general things about the whole system anymore. There wasn't even a rehearsal. We've been sending requests to do this together. Let's go, Minister, right after this debate to the white town, together. Can you do that? Can you come with me? [[Applause]] Are you scared? Or are you just able to clap when it's comfortable and thank the medics? Isn't the Prime Minister afraid to put people's health and lives at risk? Isn't the Prime Minister afraid? Because he's afraid to go to the doctor, the nurse, the paramedic - they won't hurt you there, they'll save your life as it takes - and he's not afraid to take action on it. This is really about major changes, serious changes in health management. I understand that this is a great effort and that this can be unpopular in some aspects. Therefore, having a declaration from the whole opposition - because the Platform and the Left - and from our side - that we want to work together because we have signed up to this health pact, we can only benefit from it. And it's not just about the money, although we're showing the sources of funding. The excise duty on alcohol and cigarettes, the sugar tax on health, because it causes diseases, 2% of the pension contribution, I have already said this several times from this speaker, can be used for this, because the number of rectors (the bell) has fallen from 2 million to 700,000. - for 20 years we've managed to do it. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. You can interrupt this speech now... But you are well aware of the principles of this debate. ...you may not give a marshal 10 seconds, but you will not interrupt the cryers in protest, you will not silence their voice, because this voice is on behalf of the patients. [[Applause]] But don't yell, sir. I'll take the floor...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u96	Thank you very much, sir. [[The voice from the hall: Vladek, it was touching.]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: I am glad.]] [[It's just dishonest.]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Honest.]] [[Voice from the room: And when was that sincere? When did you raise your retirement age for nurses? Was that honest?]] Please respond to Mr Adam Niedzielski's Minister of Health. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u97	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me refer to the debate which also took place here, which was initiated by the Polish People's Party. I would remind you that this was a debate about how to fight COVID, how to behave in this difficult situation, when the number of diseases was growing dynamically, when we had real problems with the hospital system being able to accept all the patients when we were in crisis management. Then this debate, I can say, because I remember it well, was really substantive. We talked about various tools to solve problems. Let me remind you that we talked, among other things. that people who do not benefit from COVID allowances should be so-called. non-medical personnel have received an allowance. The reality of this debate was that these allowances had already been paid. Over 30,000. people in the medical sector received this one-off supplement and it can be said that what was then analysed, discussed, found a real dimension in the solution. Unfortunately, what the President said today does not in any way refer to the nature of that debate. I regret to say that such a problem that you have put forward in your speech shows that today's debate will not be a health debate, about solving problems, it will not be a debate about how to help health workers, that it will be a debate about hypocrisy - I apologize very much, because you have been in charge for several years too, and it will be a few long years - with a short memory, above all from this point of view, because it is clear that this tone that you have given your speech is not a tone of proposing solutions, it is just a tone of seeking escalation, it fits exactly in the scenario written by the protest committee. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to repeat those arguments that we're still showing, because we have an obvious situation that those who haven't solved problems in the healthcare system... They were building up. for many, many years of government, which has led to the fact that we now have to solve these problems with double energy. This doubling energy means, above all, a very dynamic increase in expenditure. I do not want to talk about the fact that we have increased it by PLN 50 billion compared to your levels. [[It's a health contribution.]] Last year, when you left, it was seventy-seven billion zlotys, and now it's 120 billion zlotys, that's a huge increase in investment. [[Don't talk nonsense!]] Member, why are you yelling? [[Because it's hypocrisy.]] [[What hypocrisy? Honest truth.]] It's not proper behavior in this room. [[Voice from the room: This is just a speech.]] If we look at infrastructure expenditures and collect all these sources from which we finance infrastructure improvements, which was also very intense during COVID, replacement of equipment, replacement of ventilators... [[Respirators? Respirators?]] ...electrocardiograms, all these equipment, the construction of mucus, we'll see billions of zlotys spent on infrastructure investments. For many years we have systematically increased the list of reimbursement medicines, i.e. Forty-50 new positions per year, responding to the needs of patients. And finally, the salary. Now, I'm sorry, it's absurd. Let me remind you that, in your time, the presidents, who are now your greatest friends, I understand, had a frozen salary of 3,000. zł, like other public administration workers. I worked as a clerk at the time, too, and I also had a frozen salary. I'm asking for a little less hypocrisy and please remember how it was. Residents' salaries have only started to grow since 2016 and have increased by 72% during our governments, so I ask for a little decency in these statements. As far as medical education issues are concerned, there is a huge increase in the number of students in medical courses - 3 000. more in five years. We have more schools that educate doctors, the number has changed from 15 to 22. We've got close to $2.5,000. more places in nursing school, it's happening. Nor do I believe - and it is worth saying - that only financial expenditure can change the reality of the health system. In this system there must be a lot of changes, and it is not a matter of any magic wand, or one solution, which will suddenly improve the situation completely overnight. Financial expenditure, of course, but on the other hand, system solutions, which we also propose. After all, you will be considering the Health Quality Act in a moment, which, after public consultation, we will slowly want to direct to Parliament's work. We're working on a law on modernising hospitalization, such as a system reformer. We have put in place a lot of solutions that bring the patient closer and easier access to hospitals as far as possible, because we are all aware of the deficits we are dealing with. But, ladies and gentlemen, talking about what you didn't do and what we did... I think the public knows quite a lot about this subject, who is increasing the real expenditure, and who just said that he was doing something, and unfortunately it was just a matter of declaration. I would like to use this speech to present a little objective facts about the situation, because we have some kind of social dispute. I absolutely do not deny that each side has a point of view, but I think that the presentation of facts will allow me to make a conclusion on the origins of this dispute. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let us begin with this plea, which you also mentioned to the President, that there was no dialogue. When we were in the second wave apogee, which was still December, basically the third wave started to push around in February to achieve this apogee at the level of March and April, even then we predicted that reducing the number of diseases, reducing the burden of hospitalization would mean that we would have to withdraw from the so-called. COVID allowances, COVID allowances, which, I will remind you, doubled the salaries of doctors. That's when we invited everyone to the table. It was February. The first such meeting, so to speak, after this decision has been taken at the initiative of the government. We have invited all trade unions: OPZZ, Solidarity, Trade Union Forum, as well as employers, because we have a full composition, representing various organizations, to discuss what we will do after the COVID allowances cease to exist. And we all came to the conclusion together that we need to rule this by a minimum wage law, which we did very well. I would like to point out that this was the first law that, after the third wave fell, was approved in the sense of the health care system as just showing that we are withdrawing from the allowances, but we are still moving forward with the level of pay. The beneficiary of this solution was over 250,000. People. It wasn't like no one was gonna get it. 100,000. nurses, i.e. almost half of nurses who work in Poland. 16,000. Doctors. They were all beneficiaries of this solution. On the same trialogue, we agreed to continue this conversation, but first we will deal with the 7% bill. GDP, which is really going to increase expenditure, and then we're going to split it up as part of the next step of increasing the coefficients in the minimum wage bill. From 5 February, practically every week or 2 weeks, we met at such a full forum, talking not only about minimum salaries. In addition, of course, there were a whole bunch of meetings that were bilateral. We have always sought to ensure that the arrangements are comprehensive and are in a trialogue so that we do not make the same mistake that you have made, getting along separately with each group and working out solutions that are island, which are not systemic. So in terms of dialogue, the charge is completely missed. Completely unhappened. Not to mention the appointment of a special minister, the other invitations we recently addressed to the protest committee. These were invitations formulated in Karpacz, here in Warsaw. The state did not come to both meetings, although the intention was to clarify this (the bell), which we discussed. [[Do you hear yourself?]] I will yet allow myself to introduce one thread, namely the postulate. Well, the demands that have been presented to us have been estimated at 100 billion. Maybe it's not 100 billion points, because if we were discussing methodology, it would be plus minus a small amount, but it's 100 billion. That's more than you used to spend on the health system in your day, because it was seventy-seven billion. So the size of the postulate, which, in addition, is built on the fact that the minimum salary of a specialist doctor is going to be about 17 and 18 thousand, is simply obscene. It's just obscene. Therefore, as we add one plus one, i.e. the fiction of the plea of non-dialoguity and the size of the demands, do you know what this means? This means extreme populism or even cynical populism on the part of the leaders of this protest, which indicates that talking about constructive solutions is not a goal, is not a goal there. That is why we return to the formula of talking in a trialogue, where there are representatives of everyone. Of course, one of the unions that is in the protest, the Trade Union Forum, has also withdrawn from this forum, but the Solidarity and OPZZ are in this forum and they want to talk, and just after we finish our debate today, I am going to continue. So much for the lack of dialogue and the reality of the demands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u98	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, 56 people have joined the questions. We can make an appointment so we can try to make the question last one minute, and then everyone can ask the question, try, and we'll respect each other... [[Voice from the room: 2 minutes.]] ...or two minutes - and then less. I would propose that we try to fit in this 1 minute and give the Members who have put themselves to the question. Is the room okay with this? [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] Good. Maybe you won't get the question this way. Two minutes, please, to ask a question. I'm opening a discussion. As first Member, Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: Let's vote opposition.]] These two minutes are regular, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the Chamber: One Member will decide for the whole group?]] Only as a result of our mutual agreement could we move in a minute, because 2 minutes are in the regulations, according to the regulations. You're welcome. [[Two minutes tops.]] [[Maybe one and a half at least so everyone gets a chance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u99	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very much for this speech, as well as for his presence in the debate, which is entitled: Current information. [[It's the minister's duty.]] Mr President, your ministers did not come for current information. Here's what I'm gonna say. You know, I've been here long enough to tell you the truth as I've been. [[Our ministers came.]] Very rarely - I am not saying that at all, but very rarely - there were constitutional ministers in the processing of current information, but let us leave this. I understand that screaming from the courtroom, ladies and gentlemen, is the attitude of the opposition. Screaming from the hall is a form of dialogue. So, Mr President, taking as a good coin your words in the part where you spoke about dialogue, I propose that we really have this dialogue, but that it be a real dialogue. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to conduct a dialogue, one must stand in the truth, and the truth is what the Minister has already presented in part. Let me remind you that your proposal from over 6 years ago meant working as a nurse until 67 years of age, without the increases that were, yes, taking into account the Zembalowe, or 400 PLN, which was adopted just before the parliamentary elections. That was the reality of that time. Of course, it was 4.5%. gross domestic product. Today, we're increasing this effort, that's 6%. , now there is a law within the Polish Order - 7% gross domestic product. But also, ladies and gentlemen, let's have respect for each other. It can't be that as we increase to 7%, you're going to say 10%. Talking like this is not a form of dialogue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u100	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice. [[No, no. What do you mean? Now I'm supposed to be.]] [[Why? Hoc...]] Excuse me, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! Maybe we should draw up a situation. We have the first such protest in history, the protest of all the medics. At the same time, paramedics, nurses, physiotherapists, doctors, doctors, all of them, the whole medical community, protest at the same time. We have a situation where we're three o'clock, but before the fourth wave of pandemics. You could say we don't have time anymore. President Latos says nurses were forced to work until they were 67 years old. 27% The nurses are over 60 years of age. If they retire, there's really no one to look after us. It is similar with doctors, and it is actually similar with all medical professions. The situation is dramatic, but I have the impression that the rulers are playing balls with each other. At a time when we have such a protest, a special deputy minister for conversation, Mr Bromber, a man actually without any political strength, without experience, a man who has not been in this ministry and has not had any conversations. I have a basic question: When will the rulers take the protest of the medics seriously and the threat facing us against the fourth wave of pandemics? When will he meet the protesters, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki? His task as prime minister of the Polish government is to alleviate such conflicts, it is to bring about a situation of agreement, even before the fourth wave explodes. If someone doesn't make serious conversations in the prime minister's position... We're talking about big money, really it's about 7% next year. GDP, not 5.3%, is not a question of 100 billion, only thirty and a few billion zlotys if we are to speak honestly. It is at this point that only the Prime Minister of the Government can decide such decisions. That is why I ask: When will Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki meet with protesters? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will it be today, or will it be tomorrow? 'Cause it might be too late next week. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u102	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u103	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, I would like to ask you how you refer to the concerns of the nursing community regarding the introduction of the law on unfair and wage-setting chimneys. We said in the course of our work that the difference between the basic salary of a nurse with a secondary education and the salary of a nurse with a higher education is far too much, but then the government was against our proposals. Will the government therefore take the initiative to amend this law on reducing disparities between these professional groups? Is the government also planning to introduce a new, more professional and objective category of posts involving employees employed under the rules set out in this Act and the resulting correction of labour coefficients resulting from this new category? Will these changes, Minister, involve nurses, midwives, or paramedics? The nursing community, the medical emergency environment, the health care community is waiting for the ministry to move on this matter. We have raised such reservations during our work on this bill. Unfortunately, our reservations have bounced off the wall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u104	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jan Łopata, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u105	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In public space, you have already informed the public that there is no progress in the negotiations. Yes, there is the Prime Minister's refusal to meet with protesters: these are unspecific demands, these are unrealistic demands. The amount of PLN 100 billion is here next year, as you have just said, and this year it is still the amount of PLN 24 billion. Minister! Literally a few dozen minutes ago, I talked to one of the ladies, a nurse with over 40 years of experience, right there protesting. Believe me, there wasn't a single sentence about the money in the conversation a dozen minutes ago, about these amounts. She was talking about something that Mr Kosiniak was just talking about. The most important point: that we discuss health protection over political divisions, so that the government and the opposition will lean on this right problem. She talked about training nurses satisfied that the number of places for training nurses is increasing, but considered that nurses were not fully prepared for jobs, that the training with the patient should be increased. She also talked about the abolition of employment standards during the COVID. Is that a permanent rule? Will patient and nurse safety be restored or not? I think that the recognition of medical staff as public servants is not subject to negotiations with the Prime Minister either, but this can be done in consensus with the opposition. This is an important element in ensuring the safety of medical personnel, and we hear more and more about attacks on leaving ambulances, on leaving doctors. So that, Minister, it really requires good will (the bell) from you... Thank you very much, sir. ...not throwing it on the rulers a few years ago. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u106	Thank you. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u107	God's happiness to all hardworking, honest doctors, all suffering patients. May no one stand in their way to the doctor, may this field of our lives remain minimally, if at all, politically respected, that medical secrecy be respected. In the meantime, God help us as long as this field of activity of our state is under the responsibility of the man taking the place in this jury, unfortunately not the jury of the accused, the government jury. The indictment - I hope that before the tribunal, when the Republic returns with all its power, its majesty - will contain information about a hundred dozen, and the clock ticks, thousands of excess deaths, will contain information that a third of the suicide attacks among children and young people have increased in one year. These are war losses. The people responsible for these war losses are war criminals. War criminals in Nuremberg terms are not necessarily people who shoot guns in the occipital and push them down with lime in Palmirach or Katyn. These are, according to the Penal Code, people who create circumstances in which people die. And they're dying massively. You don't study it at all, you don't answer questions sent to you. You don't know, because maybe that's not your goal at all. I'll just ask about NOPs, NOPs, which are 1/3 in the United States, because they're still there. Some researchers are miscarriages. [[♪ The bell ♪]] No... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you very much, sir, time has passed. Please, Mr Wojciech... Two minutes, sir. You're gonna hang like... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u108	Sir, please... Mr President, how do you behave in the Seym? This is an outrage. It's just that. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: No. What's this?]] [[Don't be an accomplice...]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: No...]] Mr President, this is a great scandal. [[Voice from the hall: Go back to Moscow.]] [[Voice from the hall: Moscow.]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Formal conclusion.]] Please, Mr Kosiniak-Kamish, with a formal proposal. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u109	The proposer of this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we must protest as we are here. I don't agree with the Minister in a lot of things, he's been telling the stupid things about this lecturer... [[The voice from the hall: No, what nonsense?]] ...but I'll protect you from those lines. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[Stupid? Your Marshal...]] Mr Braun, you must never say that to anyone. You can't do that! [[Applause]] It's a criminal threat, it's just a terrible thing. The Lord often speaks of God's blessings from this pulpit. How can you say such words to someone? [[There's art. 191 of the Penal Code, sir.]] How can you? How is it Christian, how is it Christian? [[...my name...]] [[Are you saying God's blessings, sir?]] Really, you can't. [[Art. 191 Penal Code.]] [[...the consequences.]] [[The voice from the room: scandal of what you did.]] I'm asking for a five-minute break so everyone can calm down to control their emotions, because it's unacceptable what happened just now. [[Your marshal, my name...]] [[Voice from the hall: God's greetings...]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u110	You're welcome, Mr. Chairman... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. Chairman, three minutes' break. [[But...]] Mr... [[In Ripost mode.]] [[The voice from the hall: But I... it can't be like this...]] Mr President, for what you have done, a request will be made. You have no right to behave like this. [[I have rights...]] You have no right to use such words and it will be placed... [[Voice from the hall: The minister said.]] [[...the name came from that bleacher.]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] Your case will be placed on the Bureau of the Sejm. This is a big scandal. [[Voice from the room: What did you say?]] [[In the meantime, I'm bringing...]] All right, let's take a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 50 hrs. 11 min 52]] I'm reopening the session. I address Mr Braun. First of all, you don't have a mask on your face, which is against the rules of the Sejm. You behaved outrageously during today's deliberations. I'm excluding you from today's proceedings. [[Applause]] Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm refer you to order and I find that you are preventing the proceedings from being held. You're out of today's session. [[Voice from the room: Please leave.]] Please take the floor... [[I'm appealing to the Bureau.]] Go appeal. I ask the Professor to speak. And Mr Braun should leave the room immediately. [[Voice from the room: Move!]] [[May I?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u111	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In addition to time or in time, I would like to express my regret that the House, which requires great culture in situations of even conflicting views, of not accepting, has heard such voices unworthy of parliamentaryism at all. To return to the point, I would like to say that the Minister's statement as a respected economist, like the four other Deputy Minister in the Ministry of Health, as well as the economic preparation, is a matter of wondering, given that it was of course purely political and did not touch the merits of the problem. There would be no crisis in health care if health were a real priority for the government. This is not a special situation. Despite the announcements in the exposé of Prime Minister Donald Tusk, a very good program has not been completed at all. The sound announcements of the PiS for six years have not led to any results, nor have they prevented the crisis. Collapsing with the unexpected crisis of the pandemic at the moment shows how huge the problems are, because the exam has not been passed - already as a whole government, this is not just a matter of the minister - in preparing society for resilience. 50% Inoculation causes us to bump into the dramatic problems that die from COVID in a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, our distance to the health services of the developed European countries is growing. And that's the truth. Don't use those big words, big numbers. This is only a consequence of the health contribution, on which we have successfully persuaded Prime Minister Szydło not to cancel. The social sensitivity of the Civic Platform as previously as today the PiS is only (the bell) faked. Question: "When will health care be a real priority for the government?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u112	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Sosnierz, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u113	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Pandemic is an excellent experimental ground testing the health care system. Therefore, it is possible to draw conclusions on the basis of what has been happening, as well as to make decisions that change and improve functioning. Here is the question to the Minister: Did the Ministry, the Ministry's management, learn from what was happening during the outbreak, and what conclusions? The main features and main problems are the enormous disintegration of the health care system, which was already apparent and now it has come to light. Family doctors opened up in one way, closed up, hospitals, ambulances had to drive, alert centers were out of order, the health department was stunned, as if it weren't there. All this indicates that the system is disintegrated despite progressive centralization. Centralization through the sole authority actually paralyzes the system. That's another point that would be worth noticing. The National Health Fund's troops have become insurmountable strongholds and completely dull. Waiting for the central decisions, they could not manage directly. Today's protests, wage negotiations, which are the result the disintegration of the wage system as a result of successive governments negotiating with professional groups and regulating wages only in professional groups, has resulted in a complete disregulation of the system. And one more point. The government should develop a meaningful management system, because currently managing a crisis like a pandemic with residual knowledge, because you don't really know anything, you don't know how many people have been sick, how many people have died of COVID... And please avoid finally this lie about the information (the bell) that the government has increased... Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. ...the cost of health care. The government hasn't increased. [[Applause]] [[Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u114	Please, Mr Ryszard Galla, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u115	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I apologize for the situation that took place here in plenary. I am very sorry that we have such Members. I hope that your marshal and other marshals will respond to this situation. But that doesn't change the health situation, Minister. Here I would like to speak very strongly to you in a situation where we really have a state of emergency. The government has not decided, but I think it is a very difficult situation. I would like to refer here to the situation in Polish psychiatry. As you know, for months now, you will be presenting hospitals to you with problems in psychiatry. Many hospitals in Poland close or suspend psychiatric wards. Reason? No staff, no staff, no financial underestimation. You've set up a committee about months ago, which has calculated how much money you'd really need to give to psychiatry. We know what the score is, but the decision is zero. We know very little about the lack of doctors, and yet the national fund introduces actions that cause hospital doctors to leave, go to private clinics, because it's easier there, for the same money and without responsibility, to work. Minister. I am the chairman of the Social Council, who two weeks ago adopted a resolution approving the closure of the psychiatric unit and the appointment of a psychiatric ZOL. These kinds of decisions are very difficult, but we have to make them. My question is, what are you doing (the bell) to make the situation of psychiatry better? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u116	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When I listen to the rapporteur's voice and look at his attitude, I immediately think of the phrase from the Holy See: the Nightingale on the mouth and the fox of intentions in my heart. Even the attitude of the rapporteur who defended the Minister... First, he said the minister was saying stupid things. That's the incoherence of the courts. Of course, there is such a rogue law that total opposition can condemn and criticize, but is such behavior appropriate in discussing health care problems that are of the highest social value? [[Lying is the right thing to do in a situation like this?]] Of course, democracy can be protested, but are we sure that during this particular period of pandemic, when we see a sharp increase in spending on health care? Currently, this increase amounts to PLN 1.2 billion as regards the valuation of health benefits for hospitals, of which PLN 750 million was allocated to county hospitals for an increase in salaries. The so-called valuation increased. Percoquettes - 1.4 thousand. zł in the case of an ambulance and by 1 000 zł in the case of an ambulance. We have regulated the lowest salaries for health care professionals. Physiotherapists, the labs received a raise of over 1,000. Zloty's full-time. In addition, there were COVID accessories. We've raised the pay of doctors and nurses. We introduced a patriotic and loyalty voucher. Although many outsiders claim that everyone should work free studies in Poland as a duty. I'm addressing the medics who are participating in the protest. What's your point? To reactivate an extended retirement age, namely the work of nurses and doctors up to 67 years old? To implement the idea of closing hospitals announced by the Senate Marshal or the strategy of the former Minister of Health who said, "Dude, close the hospitals and come for 200 million dollars?" To make hospitals mandatory into companies governed by commercial law, and then their possible privatisation, i.e. to hospitals only for the rich? Do you remember when you didn't get a penny raise? There was no law to increase spending on health care. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u118	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to say that as an opposition, we are all opposed to the disgraceful speech that has just taken place. We'd like to speak with you in substance. I wanted to say yes. I listened to you. Ladies and gentlemen, the PiS has been in charge for six years. You've had enough time to fulfill your election promises. Unfortunately, they were not fulfilled. Let me remind you, Minister, that money spent on health care is not to be boasted of, because it is money from taxpayers' contributions. [[Voice from the room: What he has...]] [[And then they weren't?]] I'm not discussing this with you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the courtroom. Ladies and gentlemen! If it's so good, then why is there a white town? If it's so good, explain it to us. [[That's a good question.]] Ma'am, learn some culture and don't interrupt. Please, ma'am. [[Applause]] Your Marshal, please extend your time by one minute. You're welcome. Madam, I ask you very much to remain calm. [[Why? Because I'm looking at your MP?]] Mrs... You're welcome, sir. No, you tell me and you bother me because I say uncomfortable things. Please, ma'am. You sit here professionally, and you bother me every time. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the biggest death rate of Poles in three years. Where are the consequences of your actions? I say this with full care about Poles and health care. I'm a doctor myself, and I can see what the problems are today. I see and appreciate that the basic promises you made during the election campaign have not been fulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen, the scandal was the behaviour of the previous minister when it comes to preparing for the first wave of pandemic. You ignored her completely. On 3 March, when you knew about the pandemic for 2 months, there were only two laboratories in Warsaw and Poland, which performed 500 tests. [[You shouldn't have privatized...]] Ladies and gentlemen, in a panic attack, you've introduced a lockdown. Today we want to sit down and talk to you, ask the Minister (the bell) what you intend to do about it. The fourth wave of pandemic begins. The workers are on the streets instead of hospital beds. Paramedics go, nurses go. I ask you to sit down with us, and your position... [[Applause]] Thank you very much, sir. Last sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the Health Committee meeting, we were trying to propose a dissertation that... [[Your Marshal...]] ...would have asked the Prime Minister to meet with the protesters. What have the PiS Members done? They wouldn't even let me discuss this dissertation on the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u120	Thank you very much, sir. Madam President, I have extended your time for your exchange of views. Please don't bother each other. [[But I didn't mention...]] [[Voice from the room: All the time...]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are taking the chance to ask other colleagues a question. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left. [[I said, "Good question."]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u121	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We all see how difficult the situation in health care is these days. Unfortunately, we also see a lack of willingness by the government to talk to protesters. Many times the Ministry of Health and the government repeated information on the good financial condition of the National Health Fund. We all know health is the most important thing. Hence the very simple and important question from the point of view of health of Poles and Poles: Will the current rates of medical care be increased in the near future? If so, when will these measures be transferred to individual medical units? I'm also asking for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u122	Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u123	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! What Mr Braun has said is scandalous. It's a shame for all of civilized Europe. The threat he has expressed against Minister Niedzielski should have his immunity removed as soon as possible and should be judged. I'm sure we'll vote for that. But let us be very clear: the only Member who immediately responded to the threats against the minister was Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, and you from PiS sat quietly like a trust and did not respond when your minister was insulted. [[Applause]] [[That's not true!]] What is it? Are you afraid to attack the Confederacy, your coalitioner on certain matters? How about your future coalition boy? For me, it's all coming together. [[Come on, man.]] As far as the facts are concerned, let's get to the point. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] Don't worry, or you'll get tired. [[Voice from the hall: This is culture.]] Let's get to the point, Mr. Minister, if you want to talk about facts. Minister! If you want to be substantive, don't go back to the old piss song about some old government. You're in charge of six years, and it's your governments that have reduced the number of hospitals, and your governments have decreased by over 5,000. number of beds. What's gotten bigger? Long hospitals up to 16 billion PLN. The waiting time for an appointment with a specialist increased to 4 months. These are facts. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] Indeed, when we are talking substantively in this Chamber, and PSL is able to do so with you in substance, it is possible to negotiate, determine - and Minister Niedzielski in this speaker agreed with Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish - that there is a need to implement allowances for the work of COVID in non-medical professions. It's about $5,000. Minister! A question of substance for you, sir. Many complaints affect our parliamentary offices that many hospitals do not pay these allowances. Do you have a way of solving this problem? Second thing... I'm sorry, sir, unfortunately... Marshal, 10 seconds, please. No, because my colleagues are waiting, sir. The second thing is the Medical Fund. [[What's it like?]] Please, sir... He's been operating for a while. Many children are applying for surgery abroad, and their parents and families are raising funds for this purpose. Why is the government unable to finance these very expensive gene therapies abroad? Please answer the question. [[Two and a half minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u124	You're welcome, respect each other. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, there is no ad vocem. [[I wasn't talking to the Member.]] Excuse me, gentlemen... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] There's no ad vocem, you haven't been mentioned by name, it's not for discussion. Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. There's no envoy. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u125	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, In the first words, however, I will address the president, the doctor, Mr Kosiniak-Kamish, who asked the government if he was afraid to go to the protesters. I have a question for you: aren't you afraid to play with such populist slogans, with such information, in this way presented, on the eve of the next wave of pandemic, which is progressing, before the increase in the number of diseases? Aren't you afraid of bringing about these escalations that are also manifesting themselves in this House through criminal threats against the Ministry? [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Is that me?]] (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. PSL was in government not only eight years before the Civic Platform, not only for eight years, but also before. You're responsible for the fact that many nursing schools have been closed down. You're the ones who prepared for those doctors who graduated from medical school, a good, easy way for them to go abroad. [[Your messenger screamed, "Let them go!"]] You're responsible for those years when there were no raises, when both doctors and nurses were embarrassed to pay. And today, you're in conflict. That was a good question. I just said yes, that's a good question. The question is, why today, when these raises go... [[They can't come.]] When we finally give the doctors their rightful place when we've restored their retirement age and the nurse doesn't have to work until she's 67, you guys are causing conflict? It's about conflicts between doctors themselves, between certified nurses who are just before retirement (the bell) and nurses who graduated from higher education have specialized. [[You're going to the white town with these arguments.]] Thank you very much, Member. Why such a debate? Why aren't we really talking about this... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...what to improve, what to do so we can have access to doctors?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u126	You're welcome, ma'am. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but you disagreed, and I want as many Members to ask a question as possible, so I'll keep an eye on time. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u127	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! 6 years is a really long time to make a good, real change in the health system. However, the effects of these six years have been seen during the epidemic period. Dramatically excessive death rate. Chaos in management. In the last 5 years almost PLN 5 billion has increased the debt of hospitals. There's been a fall in the percentage of outpatient care. The number of specialized medical rescue teams has fallen. 80% Doctors spend time on bureaucracy, 20% - to contact the patient. Where are the medical secretaries? Where's the extra staff that could unload and rebureaucratize the entire system? The average age of surgeons is 60 years. 25% out of them exceeded the retirement age. The average age of nurses is over 53 years, the midwives are 50 years old. Soon, because in a few years, over 40,000. They're gonna be a quitter. Who's gonna fill this gap, Minister? We're an ageing society. However, in the Minister's speech instead of wanting reconciliation, dialogue with those who are protesting - this protest did not fall from heaven, these requests were made much earlier - instead of wanting dialogue and resolving the situation before the fourth wave of pandemics, we see only dislike and contempt. And it's terribly painful, because the lack of management in health care, the lack of raises, the lack of spending sooner or later will affect each and every one of us. So, Minister, my questions: Which of the demands of the people participating in the protest are you planning to meet in the first place? It is both about financial demands and about systemic changes. Can we even talk about any form of dialogue with those health professionals who care primarily about us, patients, and about the quality of medical services? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u128	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe this idea that brings out the citizens' environments to do psychological or psychiatric research before running for parliamentary elections is a good idea. We would not then have the examples of the scandalous behaviour that Mr Braun has shown us. It's an absolute scandal that something like this could have been said from the Parliamentary Speaker. But ad rem. Minister, the health care situation is really in very bad shape. A lot of people, a lot of parliamentarians have talked about it. However, I would like to draw attention to another element. I would like to draw attention to the problem of people who have very difficult vaccinations, i.e. they have so-called. NOP. Minister, I have a question: What is the support, is there any support for these people at all? I was approached by a resident of my constituency, who was very difficult to get through the NOP, and she said that I could even show her body. She's all swollen up after the vaccine, and I have to tell you, Minister, there was a huge problem for this patient to report this fact through her doctor to the health center. Moreover, I ask, Minister, is there any chance that you could run a group of lawyers in the National Health Fund who would help provide free legal assistance so that those who are very hard to get vaccinated can effectively demand financial support, compensation from the companies that produce these vaccines? Personally, I'm in favour of vaccination, I'm inoculated, my family's inoculated, but every once in a while, every few thousand or every several tens of thousands of vaccinations, we're dealing with a complication. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then the Polish state should stand at the level of the task and provide legal assistance to this... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u130	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm solidifying with you because I don't think what came out of that bleacher is acceptable. We should say the word "sorry" on behalf of everyone so that such situations do not take place. But there's one thing I want to mention. We - as PSL, Coalition Poland - initiated a health pact just before the elections in 2019. He was also signed by the then Minister of Health. We agreed that this is an area in which we should not fight politically, but agree to certain things that will continue regardless of what coalition will rule. Minister! Is there anything we can do about it? That's a substantive question. Has anything been done to find a trans-political, trans-party agreement on this matter? This could also be of great help in the current situation. We do not want to conquer the emotion drum that Mrs Bartus is talking about. We really don't need this. But, ladies and gentlemen, this process actually exists. If we don't say there's a protest in this room, will he disappear? If I were to advise the Prime Minister, I would say: 15 minutes of meeting with representatives of protestors is not an excessive price to pay. I know this is difficult, emotionally difficult, but it might calm the mood a little bit. It is clear that the Prime Minister would still tell the Minister and the protesters: the Minister of Health, on behalf of the Government, must discuss all these matters with you. It's natural. I would encourage that approach. Of course, I cannot order or order anything from the Minister, but I would encourage such an approach. That would weaken... Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is difficult. With over 5,000. Nurses who graduated last year, 3,000. They didn't take the job. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It means we have a big problem, and we have an epidemic and county hospitals that would like to know what's going to happen to them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u132	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Sjojka, Law and Justice. Is there a Member? [[I'm here, I'm here.]] There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u133	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In recent years, we have seen a systematic increase in health expenditure. Between 2015 and 2020 this steady and significant increase in health expenditure is a 50% increase according to implementation. In comparison, in the previous years, in the PO-PSL regime, this increase was significantly lower and amounted to around 14%. Today, the fact that there is a health protest is proof of democracy in governments. It's important because when the opposition ruled, not all strikes were possible and not all strikes allowed. Unfortunately, what we are seeing today is political, not substantive. It's transparent, it's identical to the movement of eight stars, it turns on Agrounia, and we see that the opposition has everything calculated for political gain. We have also seen this in Members' speeches today, such as the PSL. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the previous protest of the Residents' Agreement in 2017, the Government of Law and Justice has proposed an increase in health expenditure higher than that claimed by the Residents' Agreement. The rule of law and justice in response to the problem of lack of medical staff significantly and substantially - about twice - increased the number of places in medical studies. It offers solutions to facilitate the arrival in Poland and work in Poland for doctors, nurses from abroad, which in some groups causes outrage and scepticism. We see clearly that when Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki proposes to raise his health insurance contributions, the opposition is against. Few of them, the opposition Senate marshal and Rafał Trzaskowski, postulate the closure of hospitals at meetings. On the one hand, the opposition blocks the increase in expenditure on health care, which is a fact, proposes the liquidation of hospitals, and on the other hand it absolutely warms the atmosphere among the strikers. I feel like there's no logic at all. We remember the advice of the Minister of Health, Mr. Arłukowicz, from the Civic Platform, who advised that hospitals should be closed to the place of budget support. I understand (the bell) that the opposition's dream was private hospitals, but I ask... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u134	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Marek Hok, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u135	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Listening to all of those pissants, I feel like it's actually like Barei's movie, "Luke-Dub," "Long live the club president," everything's great, [[Applause]] financial expenditure is incredibly increased, of course at the expense of contributions. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't really buy respect, you can't buy seriousness, you can't buy respect for employees from all social groups, in this case health workers. They must be spoken to, Minister, and words such as those at the beginning of your speech, about the organizers of this protest, about extreme populism, about cynical populism, really do not encourage conversations with this environment that await these meetings. By the way, to begin with, I wanted to join in the outrage of Mr Braun's speech. I'm embarrassed, actually disgusted, with this level of performance. That should never happen. My speech yesterday, my jokes about the need to examine all possible candidates for parliamentarians who would sit here... Today it has been confirmed that such studies are probably necessary, because such behaviours do not take seriously the situation. I think that we should not only talk about financial expenditure, but, above all, we should go back to changing the organisation of the health system, mainly hospitalization. After all, what's happening today is one big scandal. In fact, most medical services, most medical services are performed in hospitals, emergency rooms, SORs. Where's that health pyramid we talked about 20 years ago? Basic health care was supposed to be the basis of this pyramid. There was to be care for all patients, then there was to be a specialist doctor in outpatient care, and the hospital - at the end. Over 50% Health fund funds are transferred to hospital clinics, while we are talking about the number of hospitals, the transformations. Yes, we need to consolidate, we need to transform, we need caring, rehabilitation, an ageing society needs it (the bell) and we expect it. Let's talk about this... Thank you very much, sir. ...not just about the money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u136	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. There's no envoy? [[I'm here, I'm here.]] There it is. [[But hurry up, because you're taking your time.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that's right. I would very much ask Members who see that they will be asking questions in a moment to prepare themselves. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Indeed, the situation in health care is dramatic. I would like to ask, without heating the atmosphere, because local government officials are asking, what exactly will the government take to extend the county hospitals. We have nearly PLN 15 billion in debt and the ruling of the Constitutional Court. Secondly, the lack of action will result in no nurses or midwives in sick beds. There's less and less doctors. The average age of nurses is 53 years old, the midwives are 51 years old, and at the age of 51, 60 years old is 35% Nurses. What concrete steps will the government take to change the situation? Apart from those that are obvious, that is, beyond improving working conditions and wages. My third question is addressed directly to the Minister. Mr Buda, who informed about the technical consultations on the National Plan for Reconstruction yesterday as a success of the government, noted: long-term care. The Commission called for the number of long-term care beds to increase by 35% by 2026. Finally, in the negotiations, the commitment is that there will be a 6% increase in seats compared to 2019. We had the chance, with the advice of the committee, to increase the number of long-term care beds with the money from the Reconstruction Fund, and the Minister thought it was a success to reduce this number of beds. Was that agreed with the Minister of Health? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u138	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u139	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I am very sorry that we must debate in an atmosphere where the principles of culture and culture of words are not respected. I appeal: ladies and gentlemen, let us respect one another. There's two years of pandemic behind us. Many thousands of our compatriots have lost their lives, their health. Families have lost their loved ones, often their achievements. This time has all the more shown us the importance of health care: doctors, nurses, all the white medical staff, medical rescuers. Many times we have said that health care needs to be financed. The President of the Polish People's Party Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz asked this from this place many times, who as a doctor was on duty at the COVID hospital. Today we stand before the fourth wave of pandemic. The number of infections grows overnight. I have a question for the government: How is the government prepared for the fourth wave of pandemic? I also have a hint for the government. Well, the local government of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship at the last meeting committed PLN 120 million from the COVID pool of the EU project. This will allow more medical equipment to be delivered to hospitals. The local government also plans to finance medical rescuers through COVID accessories. Maybe the government should use this pattern. Let me repeat my question: How is the government prepared for the fourth wave of pandemics in the time of the great protest of the medics? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u140	Thank you, Member. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u141	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One member of the PSL said from this speaker that we should talk about health protection over political divisions. I understand that this appeal was addressed to the President, who exclaimed many false facts at the outset from the speaker. Mr President, you know very well that doctor training lasts for several years, and you said that the government has done nothing to increase the number of medical personnel. We did. I'll let you know that for six years, we've increased the number of medical schools where doctors are trained. [[Is that why you were dismissed?]] You also said that the health package is not being implemented, so I'll let you know that the NFZ has already contracted over 270 psychopsychotherapeutic clinics that carry out these tasks. The process is ongoing, the repair of health care will take several years, as you yourself have made clear. Of course, money is needed, which the Government of Law and Justice has guaranteed. You're proposing to transfer funds from the pension fund and use them for salaries. You know perfectly well, as former Minister of Labour, that these are the funds that are earmarked for payouts for workers who lose their job. You're trying to take it away from them. You want to take the funeral benefits. You want to take all those benefits that are financed by the Social Insurance Fund. You are also talking about the use of sugar tax for wages, and it is you who voted for a law which states that sugar tax is intended for the prevention of civilizational diseases, including obesity. [[But just a little bit.]] Tax, excise duty on cigarettes and alcohol also go to the budget, but they are devoted to supplementing health expenditure. [[What's the percentage?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think the situation really requires (Bingle) seriousness and silence and a substantive conversation... Thank you very much. ...not causing negative emotions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u142	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Barbara Nowacka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u143	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm listening and I don't believe it. You had the reputation of a decent man, Minister. What you are saying is so completely separate from the reality with which a Polish patient, a Polish salonist and a Polish medical emergency worker are confronted today, that we have a sense of either a great deception or a great cognitive dissonance. Minister, you'll go to the E.R. someday, you'll see what health care looks like today. You go to the children's psychiatric hospital and see what it looks like. [[Two weeks ago, he was in the E.R.]] You'll see what childhood cardiothoracics look like and what drama is going on there. [[I took him myself.]] You're gonna see all these online rehab fundraisers. You're still yelling about how bad it was and how good it was in your day. [[We went to the S.R. Two weeks ago, three weeks ago.]] Minister, stand up for yourself. It's not good, and patients talk about it, doctors talk about it, health professionals talk about it. We don't want your propaganda, we want real answers to the question of what you're going to do, so that there's more specialist doctors, so that the line is cut short for the salons, the paramedics, the midwives want to stay in the country, so they don't listen to yours: let them go, they just want to stay here. That's not there. There's arrogance, complacency, and a story that was wrong. Polish health care has never been very good and it has to be made clear, but is this an explanation of omissions? Do you want well for the Republic of Poland, or do you want to live in the delusion that it used to be bad? Do you have the right to do wrong? You do not have that right, because in the middle of all this political dispute there is a patient who simply cannot be forgotten, who is a citizen, a citizen of the Republic of Poland and who, according to the Constitution, deserves health protection instead of fairy tales about how great you rule. Because he sees it, she sees it every day in every hospital, every clinic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u144	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Within a few 15 minutes, we are absolutely not able to discuss, and all the more so we are not able to propose solutions to very numerous health problems and risks for patients. I'd like to refer to the particular moment we're at. I'm talking about the current protest, the white town. I think this is a special moment for the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health, for all of us, to lean on the health issue. This is not a political protest, because the environment of various health professions did not want this, but, on the other hand, of course, it is political issues, which is reflected in today's discussion. [[Everything is political.]] In a way, yes. On the other hand, there are eight postulates. We focus on the great wage expectations of various professional groups. By the way, praise to them for the fact that even though there were such attempts, they were not able to conflict with each other - because then the government would be easier - almost the whole environment works together. These are also matters concerning working conditions, dignity, safety at work. And in the background of all this is security. All of us, patients, because that's what this is about. And now if a government with superiority, with a certain - contempt it may be said too much - arrogance treats these demands, it is very bad, it is a terrible signal for medical professionals. And we're probably gonna have to use private health services, because private ones are gonna grow, and nurses are gonna leave (the bell) or they're not gonna take a job. Thank you very much, sir. Doctors, paramedics are gonna change jobs. That's the game right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u146	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u147	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2015, i.e. in the last year of the PO-PSL coalition, the expenditure on health protection amounted to PLN 77.2 billion. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[And that's what the auditor says.]] [[It was six years ago.]] By 2020 they have been increased by more than 50% and for 2020 amounted to PLN 116.3 billion, which represents 5.5% GDP. In this respect, it should be noted that every year from 2015 we are dealing with a situation caused by various causes, so the implementation of the budget, i.e. actual expenditure on health care, is higher than originally planned in the budget law. The government's planned and expected value of health expenditure is 6% GDP in 2023 and 7% GDP in 2027, i.e. increase to PLN 217 billion. My question is therefore how to increase expenditure to 7% GDP will translate into effects felt by patients, by the Polish society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u148	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Riad Haidar, the Civic Coalition. I wanted to tell you right away that we have to stick to time. The last question will be asked by Mrs Daria Gosek-Polish from the Left. That's where we're gonna shut down asking questions to fit in time. [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] [[Voice from the room: How?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u149	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! It was bad. It's worse. We always like to go back to history, and that story's already written down and no one's gonna change it. But we're here now. Minister! I just want to emphasise one thing for historical justice. So-called. Zembalowe was the most real raise for nurses, actually felt in their pockets. [[Applause]] As a longtime employee and a doctor, I've seen these nurses really appreciate it. That's by the way. Minister! The voters are asking us, and now I'm asking the question. It is very hurtful to view this current protest as a protest about material matters only. It's hurtful for protesters. This isn't about money in your own pocket, because it's said that doctors make good money everywhere. Yeah, doctors make good money, but at what cost? At the cost of their health, at the cost of their time, at the cost of their family health. The issue that we are now protesting as medical professionals is how to actually make sure that there are real healthcare expenditures so that there is adequate equipment so that Kowalski doesn't have to wait six months or longer in line for a specialist so that helicopters don't fly. to banal calls. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, Minister, from this point on, I demand that you really take this to heart. And the Prime Minister and the Minister are able to resolve this conflict. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u150	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u151	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I feel like we live a little bit in two worlds. There is a world of self-satisfied Minister who claims that everything is wonderful, and the world of people who use and work in health care. People wait years for treatments. They die of diseases that we would be able to cure if we had a better health system. They're collecting millions for surgeries and medications that should be refunded. Reality cannot be enchanted because the reality of health protection is reality. All of us. We were, we are, we're gonna be patients and we're gonna be patients. You can see how bad it is during the pandemic. 100,000. excessive deaths. The expenditures on health protection, which - the Minister here so beautifully stressed, are raised - are counted two years back. You can count military expenditures for this year, health expenditures you can't count properly. This is how you cheat voters, voters, citizens, citizens, mostly patients and patients. 7% - when is it to be achieved? In 2027, in six years. During these six years, we'll still have underfunded health care. Even in six years, we won't have good health care, well-funded, because you're counting by lying to us about how to calculate. There's no diagnostics bill. There's no medical salvage bill. [[What do you mean, it's gone?]] A new law on which work was carried out... [[There's a law on lab diagnostics, and I took over 15 years ago. I was driving it myself.]] ...at the Ministry of Health, which is waiting for diaphragm and diagnostics. There's no medical salvage bill waiting for the paramedics. [[There's no law on lab diagnostics? It's a massacre. I was driving it myself.]] The minister says he's in dialogue. The effects of this dialogue can be seen on the street and in the health system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When will the Prime Minister finally decide that the health system deserves his 15 minutes? 15 minutes of Mr. Prime Minister's precious time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u153	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to address the words of Barbara Nowacka. From what I've heard here, everyone's working badly. Nurses work bad, doctors work bad, doctors work bad. Recreate what you said. [[Voice from the gym: You don't understand.]] Member, this is not the way to say. Doctors, nurses... [[Voice from the room: Where have you been?]] ...the saloons, they all work above their own strength. [[The voice from the gym: But she didn't say that.]] They help all patients with great effort. Member of the Commission, the previous colleague also says that there is no such thing as that. We need to see if there are any of these laws, see if they're there. [[Why are you lying?]] I'm not lying, sir. [[Voice from the Chamber: That is not what the Member said.]] Please check and listen to the wording of Barbara Nowacka's statement. Please listen to me. [[The voice from the room: No, she didn't say that.]] That's what I heard. [[That's not what you heard.]] There was a statement that everything was wrong. In the cardiology wards bad, in the children's wards bad. No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not bad. We're doing everything we can to make the best of it. Everyone's trying - those who work hard. The government is trying. [[It's not an argument that it's not bad.]] From the budget we transfer money to health care, to COVID allowances, to salary increases. 8 billion next year only for the increase in wages. We know there's a lot of sick, injured people. I wanted to ask you, Minister, how many more resources will be transferred to post-COVID rehabilitation and how the government intends to help those who have come out of a very severe illness, especially those who are struggling with mental problems, because not only COVID itself, but also closure and loneliness have caused (the Bell) that many people feel... Thank you very much, Member. ...very bad mentally now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u154	Thank you. In corrigendum mode... [[Voice from the room: There is no correction.]] Excuse me. [[How can there be no correction?]] The Member was called. I let you in this situation, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u155	Dear Miss Fellow! I'm terribly sorry that either you didn't listen carefully or you didn't quite understand. [[Applause]] I repeat, the situation caused mainly by financial issues, but also by staff shortages... [[I think it's the other one.]] ...in many departments is dramatic, and you know it. Children's psychiatrists are missing, children's psychiatric wards are missing, children's cardiac surgeons are missing. There are human dramas every day - not because the few people who are there are working badly because they work very well, very often overpowering and beyond human capabilities, saving lives, just because they lack money and lack specialists. Often, as in the case of cardiac surgery, there are also no international agreements, so that transplants can be carried out in many European countries. We're only on one show. I want you to know that cheap manipulation isn't gonna help your patients much. Because respect (the bell) for doctors, nurses, salons, midwives... Thank you very much, Member. ...is also expressed in how much you pay them and in what conditions they work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u156	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Tomasz Nowak. [[Your Marshal, twice you appear, and I wanted to quote Mr Donald Tusk and I cannot.]] Were you mentioned by someone in the O.R.? Ladies and gentlemen, please read the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, it will be easier for you in this Chamber. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to ask you about a lump sum for hospitals and its implementation for 2020. In October 2020, you issued a regulation on the transfer of 1/12 lump sums to hospitals every month for verification, first by mid-year and now by the end of 2021, but the lump sum cannot be done. Meanwhile, the NFZ has already asked some hospitals, when it was six months' execution, for a lump sum for defaults. Minister, tell me what the scale of these non-executions is. What will be the debt of hospitals at a time when it will not be possible and this lump sum will have to be repaid? Will the Ministry of Health just punish hospitals for fighting COVID? And what's important, what about the new lump sum? Will the reference be 2019 or 2020? The white town, which at the moment is a proof of the dramatic situation in health care, gives us terrible information about the fact that young people do not want to do specializations in which there is a high risk of medical errors, e.g. Surgeons or vasculars. 300 hours work, because there are more or less specialists working, causes fatigue, and fatigue often results in medical errors, and medical errors are a responsibility. This raises the question of how the Minister intends to deal with this situation and how to make young people work. I'm also asking about the nurses, the paramedics. Finally, was the Deputy Minister for Contact and Dialogue in the white town? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u158	Thank you very much. And the last question, unfortunately, is asked by Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, the Left. You're welcome. We're just running out of time to ask questions, which is why we have to follow the rules. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You were talking about the COVID additives. I'm asking you to go, for example. to Gorlice and met with the halls who, although working on dialysis with COVID patients, did not see a penny. Why? Because those conditions that were to be fulfilled were that very many doctors didn't get it. And that's the truth. You're talking about programs, you're talking about support, you're talking about dialogue, but you'd rather hang out with trade unions instead of midwives, instead of saloons, instead of nurses -- alone in the ministry and the Prime Minister's office. So, yes, go and tell the hospital staff more about those COVID supplements they didn't get. A white town crashed under the Seym on Saturday and medical personnel's demands haven't changed in years. They demand higher salaries, better working conditions, reconstruction of the whole health system. They point out that in the case of nurses or midwives, we do not have a stable replacement of generations, i.e. more nurses retire than they do. And the problem is trash employment, both in terms of ambulance staff and, for example, those midwives I mentioned at the very beginning. And in this crisis situation, in the fourth wave, the Prime Minister has no time to meet the protesters. Luckily, he had time to see the president of PHPN. As I understand it, that's where the Prime Minister should direct all his forces. So I call for real dialogue, for listening to the health workers' problems, because they protest and fight for our health. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u160	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. [[Voice from the room: Again, twice, and we wanted to discuss.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a pity that the debate is over, because there are still a lot of people willing. I hope we have a chance to repeat it and continue. So there is a need for this debate, despite the voices that were cast by the representatives of the ruling party, that there is no need and that everything is fine. But you have taken an active part in this debate, and I thank you. That means the need is very big, because the demands are. I'm the one who brought them up. You can be insulted at me, angry at me, even insult me, but you can't be insulted at society and at those who protest because you're a ruling party, you're responsible for social dialogue, for listening to all those who think differently, to all those who think differently, and who don't think that the good is happening in health care. Ladies and gentlemen! Know the proportions, my lord. It was literary, it's literal, sir. I'm going to refer to this appalling situation. Two minutes, Mr Braun spills his slopes on the Minister of Health. He ended it with a criminal threat. I respond by saying that we will not allow the Minister to be insulted by being in a far-reaching political dispute with him. [[The voice from the hall: But you said it was stupid.]] [[That was good. That's a good reaction.]] Because he says things that are false, with which I disagree, which because of their presentations are hypocritical in many places. This is my political assessment, and I have a right to it. Is that offensive to the Minister? I think what Mr Braun has said is dangerous to society and offensive. I have not seen your collective reaction - apart from Mr Latos - how to me the threats were directed by the anti-vaccine groups, the pro-epidemic groups. I didn't see you guys getting upset and reacting. Then know the proportions, my lord. Political dispute, intense debate, even a tough exchange of views - yes, it is parliamentarianism. [[The voice from the hall: And when the pack was reached, it was you...]] Did I say that? Mr President, because now you are quoting not from the PSL environment, not from me, and you are trying to assign something to me, really. About history, because there's always a lot about history. This, my dears, what was the budget of the National Health Fund when Prime Minister Kaczyński ended his office as Prime Minister of the Republic? 30 billion. It was a lot less than what happened when we were done. So? We are now to return to the reign of PiS, to the years 2005-2007, that it was a few times less for health care? [[Applause]] And it will improve health care, it will help those people who are protesting today, those paramedics for 3800 zlotys who are making statements? The problem is. [[Voice from the room: 100 billion.]] You guys can really lie about the reality that there's no problem that everything's okay, but an ambulance 150 meters from the emergency room doesn't leave, but there's an emergency chopper going there and landing in the middle of the street. Is this normal, or is this crazy? Is that the way it should be, or should an ambulance go? More data. The number of hospitals falls by 33, in 2005 and 2007, by 208 in 2007 and by 7 in 2015 and 2018. The number of hospital branches between 2005 and 2007 - your governments - falls by 9, in 2007 and 2015 by 964, in 2015 and 2018 is also increasing, but at a lower rate, because by 295. I'm telling the truth. As it grows, I say it grows. So? Number of hospital beds? Between 2007 and 2015 as we rule, 11 thousand. up, in the years 2015-2018 5 thousand. Down. Watch Health Care Foundation barometer: on average 2 months waited for a specialist visit in 2013, in 2019 - 4 months. [[Voice from the hall: What about cataracts?]] 9900 million was the debt of hospitals in 2010, in 2015 - 10 billion, in 2020 - 15 billion PLN. It's a 5 billion-dollar increase. These are facts, these are data. Minister! Please also refer to this, not just talk about your program. We have an idea of how to finance health care: with excise duty, shift the pension fee because the number of pensioners is falling. You may not like it, but this is a solution proposal. Once again, a specific invitation to the Minister: Are we going now, after this debate, to the white town? Are you gonna go in there? Then tell me you don't want to go, that you don't want to talk. I'll understand. You don't want to have a dialogue that way, you're not ready for it, and you don't take that responsibility, but you have to admit that you can't invite the protesters effectively, and you don't want to go out to them. Are we going to the Ministry after this debate (the bell) and sitting down for the implementation of the Health Pact? Are you ready for this? I am. We're good to go. Let's get one person from the Platform, one person from the Left. [[Applause]] Let's go. Are we doing this? [[We still have the Health Committee.]] The Health Committee will sit and adopt this bill that we will negotiate. We invite representatives of the protest committee. Thank you very much. The problem isn't gonna go away since reality whispers. [[We have a health committee meeting in ten minutes. Come on in.]] This debate is an opportunity to raise these demands and show that the demands are, sufferers and medical staff are looking for support and assistance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u162	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Mask!]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Aha...]] Now please take the floor of the Minister of Health Adam Niedzielski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start with the president. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I never would have let myself tell you the way you turned to me, which means I'm saying stupid things. I can't imagine a public debate that maybe is being broadcast, because I don't know exactly, being held in a convention where grown men, for apologies, challenge each other that way. [[Applause]] This is embarrassment number one. This is Mr Braun, who behaved outrageously. [[Voice from room two?]] I wanted to leave the room, but here you pointed out to me that I absolutely should not have fallen to this standard. [[It's usually the perpetrator of violence who should leave the room.]] I think that from the point of view of the ministry, but also every guest and every representative of the government who's going to be here, it's just totally unacceptable. I expect the Bureau of the Sejm to take firm, strict steps in this area, because, ladies and gentlemen, we've just been nodding lately... [[But you can also thank your marshal.]] ...that scandalous things are happening, and there are no tangible steps taken towards what Mr. Braun has done. [[Voice from the Chamber: Your Marshal has removed the Member.]] Him. removal from the debate for 15 minutes is not an appropriate punishment. [[You don't know the rules.]] [[Voice from the room: Until the end of the day.]] [[Voice from the room: Exclusion.]] This is an outrage. It's just a scandal. [[This is exclusion, he won't be able to vote. You seem to be able to thank your marshal.]] Thank you. Of course, I also wanted to thank you all for your clear attitude, but I do not want us to stop at the fact that we are only denying and not drawing consequences. We'll either be assertive, or we'll just nod. Turning to the questions and statements that have often been raised here, ladies and gentlemen, from the beginning of my speech, I have pointed out that I do not want to throw myself through these historical arguments, because I believe that here the right is simply on our side. You probably have another point of view that you were trying to prove, but I think that many people at that time knew how their salaries developed and what happened to their salaries after 2015 or 2016. It's just that everyone in their house budget knows what was going on, and I know what was going on in my budget, because working as a civil servant in the past days, I had frozen wages, and then these freezes were unfreezed. The same applies also to the medical sector, which is best illustrated by the salaries of residents, which were also frozen at the level of 3 000. with a piece, and then they just started growing systematically. I also wanted to draw Mrs Lubnauer's attention here not to cross out Minister Bromber, who is to deal with social dialogue. This is a person with a lot of experience... [[Voice from the room: And what will Mrs. Semeniuk do?]] [[Maile check.]] ...who has worked in the health care system for many years, first at the marshal's office in the health department, then as director of the Lubuskie branch of the National Health Fund. It can be said that these are decades spent in the system and very good knowledge of the reality of the operation of this system, moreover, also participation in solving social problems, which include. concerning the Zielona Góra Agreement, which originates from there. The chance to talk because these conversations are open all the time... I would like to point out that I cannot now, after our debate, go to the town, as proposed by the president, because I am going straight to the meeting of the trilateral team, which was also invited to the protest committee. Are they here? Of course they won't come because that's not the intention. [[Then take a step and go to them.]] The intention is simply to escalate, escalate, not solve problems. [[Terrible union guys, huh? Minister?]] As regards the issue of the Law on minimum remuneration, which was discussed here in many contexts, I would like to tell you, firstly, that this law was agreed on in this trialogue. There the only abstention took the union, the Trade Union Forum, which then withdrew from the table at all. But the element that was involved in diversifying the pay of nurses according to their education and incorporated nurses with a Bachelor's degree in this category, where there is a higher education, is also an element that was jointly agreed in the forum. If you are asking whether changes to this law will take place, it will happen, because that is why I am now going to a trilateral team meeting to discuss further changes to this law, because subsequent changes in this law are already partially agreed in different areas, for example with medical rescuers, where we agreed to separate this profession to show and appreciate its status, so that it is not included in some position: the others. And this will happen, as will certain adjustments to the growth path of those indicators that are in the bill, because I will remind you that we have indicators based on the average salary. What does that mean? It means that every year, when the average wage in the economy is going to rise, it's going to call automatic indexing of the minimum wage. It is not like in the minimum wage in the economy, that there must be some increase here, which is a concrete amount, and it must, I don't know, agree with the government. Here is the automation of salary increases, and we don't stop at it, we just say: we're the indicators that mean automatic indexation anyway, we're going to increase even more. Another issue is the issue of public officials. Well, ladies and gentlemen, doctors, nurses and paramedics have in their laws a record of being a public officer and being subject to similar protection. What we did recently in connection with the events in Zamość, where, you might say, there was some kind of attack on the vaccination site, we expanded it to include all the other workers who also helped with the vaccination. As regards the question of what we will do post-covidoly, because here we also have such questions, we rarely agree with Mr Sosnierz, but I agree with this diagnosis that one of the main conclusions is that the system has too much disintegration, that here it is necessary to consolidate this system, which means that such fragmented health services cannot function efficiently, to act effectively if we have very little resources. That is why we need to consolidate, we need to eliminate some kind of competition when it comes to highly specialised services, we need to build comprehensive offers, and that is why we are preparing a law on modernising hospitalization - that is exactly what we intend to do, exactly what we have in mind. And the fact that we are negotiating systematically - this is also what Mr Sosnierz draws attention to - in the forum of the trilateral team, all the remuneration rates, we are doing precisely to avoid talking to single groups of interests when each of them simply pulls the cart in its own direction. The Tripartite Team Forum is an appropriate forum to adopt, agree, agree a solution that will be comprehensive, systemic, and not one that suddenly draws one professional group in the healthcare system before parentheses. Ladies and gentlemen! There was also a problem of psychiatry, too few specialists. I would like to say very clearly that the solutions we are implementing are just the answer to the fact that these specialists are not enough. We want to reduce the burden of responsibility and psychiatric care, which rests strictly on psychiatric specialists, which is why we are expanding environmental care. We do this for both children and young people. These are not declarations, this is 318 environmental care centres established throughout the country. [[In schools...]] We want psychologists, therapists and non-clinical specialists in every district to be a kind of a hallmark of specialized care just to remove the burden from those hospitals that had to deal with all the previous reports. We do this both on the side of children and on the side of adults. As far as price changes are concerned, there is also a question here. Ladies and gentlemen, we have systematically raised these valuations for a long time. A week ago we declared that by 7 more (Bingle) percentage points we will raise the valuations just in hospital roar, i.e. each point in hospital lump sum will be valued by 7 percentage points. Moreover, this will be done from 1 July, i.e. it will even be done backwards, which will greatly improve the situation of district hospitals, because they are primarily beneficiaries of a lump sum. We did the same thing with the extracarret, that is, with this rate, which concerns the operation of medical rescue teams, because as we raised the minimum wage, it was for the employees, and now we are making movements related to the price of the rates that can be directed to the people who are on the contracts. As far as the other issues that followed are concerned, this is a question of debt. Indeed, debt was growing, and I will not deny reality, but we are actively looking for a mechanism to make... We're preparing a bill on the modernisation of the hospital that I've already mentioned. This law is already on the final stage, we have engaged the biggest authorities in Poland in terms of restructuring processes, and we will be through the hospital development agency just leading this extension, but the extension, which is carried out on rational, economic and simply tightening logically. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as questions are concerned, there were still important issues such as the issue of the benefit pyramid, which is actually reversed in the sense that, above all, the benefits are implemented at the hospital level, but also the whole strategy of action... I recommend reading the paper policy that we have submitted to the European Commission, in terms of the absorption of funds, so that these actions in different funds are consistent. There we have all the objectives very specific, translated into projects. One of these objectives is to rationalise the benefit pyramid, which on the one hand means to consolidate at the hospital level, to increase outpatient valuations, so that there is no exodus of specialists to the private sector and on the other hand to increase the responsibilities that will be imposed on primary healthcare, especially with a view to increasing the scope of diagnosis. We have with the whole environment - it is so about dialogue - family doctors, an ensemble or such a group, we can say more widely in which we are preparing the reform of the POZ. The head of this team is Professor Mastalerz-Migas, National Consultant. Family medicine. There are representatives of the Zielona Góra Agreement and all other environments in the team, so in this respect we also care about the complete representativeness of the environment. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude this debate, she will not leave us with a good memory, unfortunately. It is a pity that this incident will cover up the substantive discussion that we could have, but unfortunately I think that before we reach a certain standard of conversation and culture of discussion, we must take decisive steps towards those who do not respect these values. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And when there's a meeting...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u164	Thank you, Minister. I wanted to say that as Marshal of the Sejm, I could not take any other action. This is the greatest punishment a marshal can bring to a Member. And, of course, at the meeting of the Sejm Bureau, we will deal with this matter. We will also take care, I hope, of the ethics committee, and I also think that the prosecution should address this issue and show that such action should not take place. [[Applause]] [[Definitely.]] [[Of course I do.]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For years, the health sector has needed to increase its financial resources. Following the 2015 parliamentary elections, the Law and Justice Government gradually and dynamically increased its financial expenditure for health care in Poland. In 2015, these expenditures amounted to PLN 77.1 billion, which was at that time 4,7% GDP. For 2021, the government has planned health expenditure of over PLN 140 billion, i.e. 6.17% GDP. Health expenditure is expected to reach 7% in 2027. GDP. These very large financial expenditures were accompanied by large increases in health workers' salaries. Doctors with the second degree of specialisation achieved an increase in wages from around PLN 8000 to over PLN 13 600 in 2020, which represents an increase of 70% in 2015. Doctors with the first degree of specialization received a salary increase during this period from 6800 PLN to 10 800 PLN, i.e. 60% increase. Doctors without specialization received an increase of 64%, from PLN 5200 to PLN 8600. Nurses and specialized midwives received salary increases from PLN 3800 up to PLN 6570, i.e. 69% increase. The other nurses received an increase in salary from PLN 3400 to PLN 6130, which represents an increase of 80%. In this period, rescuers also received an increase in wages from PLN 2800 to PLN 4077. This level of increase in financial expenditure on health protection has never taken place before.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u166	We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws (Prints No 1508 and 1543). I ask Mr Jerzy Paul to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u167	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws in print No 1508. On 14 September, the first reading of the project took place at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, as requested by the Marshal of the Sejm. The aim of the project is to implement Directive 2018/645 of the European Union amending Directive 2003/59/EC on the initial qualification and periodic training of drivers of certain road vehicles for the carriage of goods or passengers and Directive 2006/126/EC on driving licences. Implementation of the provisions cited above. directives only regulate the rules for professional drivers, i.e. those who already carry out road transport on a daily basis by trucks or buses. These are training and examinations carried out after obtaining a driving licence, aimed at the safe, efficient and lawful pursuit of the driver's profession of heavy vehicles. The most important changes will be to digitise the circulation of documents in the process of training professional drivers and improve the quality of training of professional drivers. The new rules will ensure that training is properly conducted without the possibility of their illegal shortening or forging a certificate of completion of training, as well as eliminating paper medical and psychological certificates for electronic entry. Then, allowing part of the training for professional drivers through e-learning will speed up the implementation of training and to some extent allow flexibility for both professional drivers and trainers. By amending the rules, a driver qualification card will be introduced allowing for easier employment of professional drivers from a third country, ensuring that all training and research necessary for the safe execution of road transport will be carried out and confirmed in Poland on the basis of Polish documents. The next amendment will concern initial qualification exams for professional drivers, which will be transferred from the regional offices to the WORDs. This will reduce the costs of exams and increase accessibility for citizens. After the amendment of the regulations, cooperation between the voivode, the Road Transport Inspection and the State Labour Inspection will allow to check whether the driver actually completed the training, whether he was at that time, for example. somewhere on the road. Thanks to the amendment of the Act, the possibility of verifying data concerning Polish and foreign drivers will be introduced during the inspection by the relevant services. This provision will improve the detection of persons who drive vehicles despite a ban or who do not have the right to drive. This provision will apply to Polish and foreign drivers. The new regulations will give the possibility of regaining the Polish driving licence by persons who have withdrawn their driving licence abroad. Drivers will be treated equally with others who have withdrawn Polish driving rights and will have to meet the same conditions in order to recover them. The Act abolishes the regionalization of medical and psychological examinations in voivodship occupational medicine centres for drivers. This provision will contribute to the fact that persons who are to be tested at a voivodship labour medicine centre will be entitled to choose any centre that is able to carry out the tests as soon as possible. Another change will be for drivers driving under the influence of alcohol. After stopping a driving licence under the law they will be required to undergo a medical and psychological examination and conduct a training course. Changes will also apply to persons who will be suspended and who will be entitled to drive for that period. This will allow them to draw consequences for driving during the detention of a driving licence, as for persons without a licence. High Izbo! The Law and Justice Government has been working for many years to increase safety on Polish roads, introducing new regulations and some adapting to the requirements of EU law. The bill we are working on is the best example of this. High Seym! The Committee on Infrastructure supports the abovementioned. amendments to the draft law and asks the High House to adopt them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u168	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice, will be the first voice in the debate. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u169	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club Law and Justice a position regarding the draft law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws contained in print No 1508. The project was the subject of work by the Infrastructure Commission on 14 September 2021, when the first reading took place. The proposed amendments involve the implementation of Directive 2018/645 of the European Union amending Directive 2003/59/EC on the initial qualification and periodic training of drivers of certain road vehicles for the carriage of goods or passengers and Directive 2006/126/EC on driving licences. According to these proposals, the provisions of the above-mentioned legislation have been implemented. directives only regulate the rules for professional drivers, i.e. those who carry out road transport on a daily basis by trucks or buses. These are training and examinations carried out after obtaining a driving licence, aimed at the safe and lawful pursuit of the driver's profession of heavy vehicles. The changes concern: improving the quality of training of professional drivers - persons intending to carry out or carrying out road transport on the driver's post, e-learning training method, introducing a driver qualification card, digitising the circulation of documents, initial qualification tests, increasing supervision of the training of professional drivers, introducing the possibility of regaining the Polish driving licence for drivers from abroad, abolishing the division of medical and psychological examinations, procedures applied to drivers under the influence of alcohol and suspension of rights. The Law and Justice Club, given that the proposed amendments to the Act are an adaptation to EU law and have been positively accepted by the Infrastructure Commission, will vote in favour of the bill. Mrs. Marshal! Following discussions in the Committee on Infrastructure, following requests made by drivers' training centres, the Law and Justice Club makes an amendment, which I will read on the grounds. This amendment concerns the simplification of the procedure by removing the consent and the requirements necessary to obtain it for distance learning using computer and Internet techniques. For conducting classes in WW. form, i.e. e-learning, no consent will be needed, no decision will be taken. Only a 3-year traineeship will be required for the running of a training centre in road transport. Each facility will be able to run e-learning once this condition has been met. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u170	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u171	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the government draft law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws. I'll split my speech into two parts. In the first part, I will present what is actually enshrined in the Act, and in the second part I will talk about the course of the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee and the comments made by the social side. In line with the solutions proposed by the government, professional drivers will have the opportunity to receive qualification courses and periodic training using computer and Internet techniques. It's the so-called. e-learning. The online form can only be used after obtaining the consent of the voivode at the request of the entrepreneur. It will be possible to obtain a training centre which has been established for a long time and meets the additional requirements for its infrastructure and teaching staff. In addition, these centres will have to carry out traditional activities not covered by e-learning. Other solutions include: limit or minimise the fictitious presence of drivers in the training documentation. The qualification course and periodic training will be open to the person who has a professional driver's profile. He'll be handed over by the governor or the president of the city on county rights. After completion of the qualification course and training, the head of the training centre will be able to complete the driver candidate profile accordingly. There will also be changes in the reporting of courses and trainings started and carried out. A new document will be established. This will be a driver's qualification card confirming the right to work as a driver. This solution will apply to those drivers who cannot be issued a driving licence due to non-compliance with the condition of residence in Poland. The proposal also introduces the possibility of withdrawing the certificate of professional qualifications. This is to be done after the voivode has determined that the certificate has not been issued in accordance with the facts. As regards the social side, several comments were made during the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. I would like to refer to some of them. The first raised question concerns the purpose of training professional drivers for several months. The social side says that this period can be shortened if there is really a good training staff, a good training centre. The social side also critically evaluates the sanctions proposed, inter alia. for shortening the duration of the training which will be imposed on the driver. Of course, the social side also talks about good solutions, e.g. opportunities for distance training by means of ICT devices. However, there are criteria and the need to obtain additional consent or other restrictions, e.g. owning at least one vehicle in the case of a business activity for a period of 3 years. The social side is in favour of applying other solutions in this case as well. It is also incomprehensible why drivers who have made procedural errors during training will be denied rights. I know that Mr Suchon will make such an amendment to give the driver 30 days to catch up. If he makes up for this backlog, then of course those steering powers will remain. If he doesn't make up for it, then those privileges will be received. However, it is not understandable that the driver suddenly ceases to be entitled to drive overnight. This period of 30 days should be introduced. I am counting on you, Minister, to accept this amendment, which we have tabled together in the Committee on Infrastructure. Now it will also be submitted during the second reading. The training environment also calls for a transitional period to be maintained in the law to comply with its requirements. These centers want it to be a little longer to be able to prepare calmly for the implementation of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u172	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Maciej Kopiec, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u173	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws amends the Road Transport Act. It is intended to implement European Union law. The laws on road traffic, the service of occupational medicine, the drivers of vehicles, the Penal Code and public documents are also being amended. The project concerns the transposition into Polish legislation of Directive 2018/645 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 April 2018 and Directive 2006/126EC on driving licences, amendments to, inter alia. training of persons who intend to or carry out road transport in the driver's post, supervision of training centres and adaptation of the circulation of documents and training data to the needs of the proposed changes. The project introduces a professional driver profile, i.e. the obligation for a driver candidate to have a profile containing a set of data identifying the applicant for entry of code 95 confirming the issue of the professional qualification certificate, the driver qualification card and the performance of medical examinations. The profile is also to include updated information on whether the allowances have not been revoked. The Act introduces the digitalisation of the circulation of professional drivers' documents and the elimination of medical certificates in paper form. This draft law also provides for changes in the training of professional drivers by defining rules for the operation of e-learning and the possibility for training companies to conduct such training. The project moves exams from the regional offices to the WORDs, which according to the government's commitment is to increase availability and speed up the acquisition of powers. It also empowers WORDs to issue professional qualifications certificates, which are also to be issued in digital form, entered in the central register of drivers and the professional driver profile. A new document appears, i.e. a driver qualification card issued to persons who cannot issue a Polish driver's license with code 95 in it. The rules implemented are intended to give the police the opportunity to fully verify the data during the driver checks. The Act abolishes the regionalization of occupational medicine centers. The driver may choose a centre which has free time limits to speed up the authorisation procedure. The Act enhances the control of drivers' training centres and introduces the possibility of withdrawing driver privileges which have been trained at a training centre which has not conducted the training in accordance with the required time or has not had adequate training powers. We support the opposition amendments tabled at the committee meeting by Mr Suchon, which say that drivers should not be punished by immediately withdrawing their powers and give them time to complete the missing training and documents. We also support the amendment which removes the obligation to own a vehicle from training entities in the e-learning system. Unfortunately, when observing the work in the Infrastructure Committee, it should be noted that many issues that are raised by practitioners, businesses that are also covered by the Act are not taken into account. Adapting the right to reality would be very beneficial, but the project is unfortunately processed quickly, while the content of European Union law has been known to the government since 2018. There are little points that could really help implement a good project because the government's position is in advance negative for some of the social comments. I hope and hope that this process will improve in committee. The Left Club will support this project in keeping with the above reservations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u174	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u175	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives in relation to the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on road transport and some other laws, print No 1508 and 1543. The aim of this project is to implement European Union law. Other laws are also being amended on this occasion, but the project mainly concerns the transposition into Polish legislation of the European Parliament directives on initial qualification and periodic training of drivers of certain road vehicles. This applies to the training of persons who intend to carry out or carry out road transport. All those issues which have been presented by the previous speakers should be adapted by: establishing a new document in the form of a driver qualification card as a document confirming the driver's entitlement to work in a driver's seat which cannot be issued with code 95; exchanging information on issued and withdrawn certificates of qualification; introducing a professional driver's profile as a set of data identifying and describing the applicant for an entry in the driving licence; extending the suspension institution to drive and limiting the use of driver's referrals to tests or courses. This is really going to help with training through the use of e-learning, remote training. This is probably even more important at a time when we are dealing with a pandemic and when candidates in many places had to wait for these courses to be conducted. Taking into account the amendments tabled by the opposition Members and listening to the social side, we will support all these proposed amendments. We will support these changes because it is, as I said before, an adaptation to EU law, but it is also intended to improve the conduct of these trainings and courses. This is, of course, a collection of all relevant data in databases to facilitate these activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u176	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mr Dobromir Sosnier, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u177	We're trying here to dig into a system that's completely to change. We maintain a purely fictional system like many other certification systems run by the state, such as: periodic examinations at work or tests before the driving licence course. We know what it looks like. This is pure fiction. You come in there, cover your left eye, cover your right eye. Are you okay? Yes. You get a pass, you move on. The worst spent dozens of zlotys in my life are those spent on a test before the driving licence course. It was a few hours of work for me at the time, and I got the advice I could get from a friend. It's the same here. These trainings are in many cases pure fiction. The best system that always works is when it trains interested in this training, i.e. the employer. If we'd left... Remember, we're not talking about driving licenses here. It's just an adjustment to the profession. The licence shall be issued separately. What we're talking about is adjusting to work. It's the best thing an employer can do. Absolutely enough, and it will also be enough for the next employers. They mostly have state-of-the-art vehicles, they're most interested in entrusting these vehicles to someone who doesn't hurt, they're interested in giving them practical knowledge and they have experience. On these courses present, remote times, where the student only scrolls slides, he is supported by a guide who often has no driving experience at all. After such a course we have a man who doesn't know how to fix a load, doesn't know how to turn on a tachograph at all in a modern vehicle, can't handle this modern vehicle, because vehicles in training centers are often knocked down because nobody cares about it, they have no motivation for it, they have the motivation to release the student and nail the stamp, not prepare him for real work. Therefore, such a student is then retrained by the employer and all this is completely pointless. Increasing the number of hours of initial qualification - 280 hours the trained person there exercises on the simulator, which is often nothing, and these simulators are also obsolete, has nothing to do with working under real conditions, and does not learn the basics, such as fixing the load. Periodic training should be kept to a minimum, because these trainings, which must be carried out by drivers, only strengthen the belief that this is all pointless. When he comes once, the second, the third and listens simply to theoretical lectures in these trainings, it only strengthens his conviction that it does not make any sense at all. Remote teaching in this case It's also some complete fiction and aberration. If we were to remain in this system, we would need to make major changes, such as the obligation to have new vehicles, such as 3 and 5 years old in these schools, so that it makes sense and that the instructor must have a driver's background. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But it seems to me that reforming such a system is simply pointless because such systems do not work. Let the employer train the employee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u178	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u179	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the government draft law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws, included in print No.1508, after the presentation of the report of the printing commission No. 1543. High Izbo! The main objective of the draft law submitted by the government is to transpose the provisions of Directive 2018/645 of the European Parliament and of the Council into Polish law. This Directive includes changes in the initial qualification, periodic training of drivers of certain road vehicles for the carriage of goods or passengers, as well as in the driving licence directive. The aim of this project can be said to be the general objective of this project is professionalisation in the field of professional training of drivers. In general, we evaluate the spirit of the project and the direction in which the project is going, positively. This professionalisation will certainly have a positive impact on road safety, and therefore these provisions should serve this very well and increase the professionalisation of road transport. However, this transposition, this draft law contains a number of elements, which can be called too strict, too bureaucratic. In order not to go far - in order to conduct e-learning training, the resort must meet a number of different requirements that really create complications in today's world rather than facilitate life to any extent. We will therefore be making amendments. I would like to thank Mr Truskolas, in particular, who has already supported these amendments during the committee meeting. The first amendment will concern the possibility for the driver to present documents relating to his professional qualifications if the voivodship or pedagogical supervision were to inform that there may have been irregularities during the training process. Today, the government is proposing that this driver loses his license. This is absolutely disproportionate, which is why we propose that it be a period of 30 days, at least 30 days, to provide evidence of this training. We believe that this is justified and we ask for support for this amendment. We also propose to remove the requirement that the vehicle be owned by the training centre. This is absolutely unnecessary today. You can have this vehicle on the basis of a (Bingle) rental contract. We also respond to the waiting of driver training centres and propose changes in the qualifications of instructors. We propose that instructors do not have to legitimize themselves with 10 years of international transport experience, but that it be 5 years. This is very important... Thank you very much, sir. ...postulates of training centres for drivers, organisations of training centres for drivers. Thank you, sir. We support it and request that these amendments be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u180	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. And please, the first question is asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, During the debate on this law, the issue of excessive bureaucracy or rigour was also raised in relation to training actors. In view of the above, does the government, in any event, share the view of the need to delete the article. 39gb, where it is said that the operator of the training centre may apply to the voivodeship for permission to conduct training in the framework of the qualification course and periodic training in the form of distance learning, using computer techniques and the Internet, in the area of software blocks specified for particular driving licences? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u182	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Małecki, Law and Justice. Are you an MP or not? There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u183	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. The training centers of drivers, the centers industry and the representatives of the centres claimed that such highly sophisticated requirements in the field of remote teaching could result in small Polish centres being pushed out of this market and, in turn, these centres can be replaced by large international, transport companies, which will conduct these trainings in a remote formula. Question: "Was this analyzed by the Ministry?" Because if there were really a situation where small centres would be pushed out, many of them would have to fall, because for many of them the income from vocational training is very important. Therefore, the question: Was this raised during the consultation? Have such amendments been made? [[♪ The bell ♪]] If the former and the Ministry did not take them into account, why? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u184	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have two questions. The first concerns the liability of drivers for errors in training. The provision in the draft law states that if deficiencies are detected in the training of drivers, they result in the loss of the driver's licence. This record is extremely drastic and unfair. I wanted to ask the Minister: Why? And what is the reason for this? Because it's just shocking. Second question, more general. During the public consultation, a number of comments from the stakeholders involved were not taken into account because the comments were outside the scope of the submission. But these are important issues regarding the implementation of this project. I have a question: How is the Ministry going to solve these problems? Because everything points to it (the bell) that they will occur. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u186	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u187	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I would like to ask how the Ministry of Infrastructure will respond to the amendments made at second reading. Would you agree that the driver should not be punished immediately for the fact that the course, the training was not properly carried out, and that he would have 30 days to catch up? Secondly, I would like to ask you about the second amendment, which is to own a car, own a truck. But won't you consider that the company can rent a car like this? As you know, now many companies, instead of leasing or buying on credit, car rentals. Wouldn't it be better to just make these changes? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u188	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u189	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask, what are the conditions behind the law prohibiting one driving school from taking advantage of the opportunities and facilities of another school. This is an obvious hit on small or single-person companies operating in this area. A random situation, such as a vehicle's illness or damage, forces the course to be terminated, the return of money and can lead to the insolvency of the entire company. In addition, the recipe hits those companies, which, for example, they have developed a theoretical teaching base and use the services of external driving instructors with their own companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u190	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have three questions. The fact that the project adapts Polish law to EU legislation - okay, we understand that. But apart from the fact that you are adapting Polish law to the EU, you are still making it as complicated as possible and do not take into account the practical comments of the industry. Namely: the professional driver will have to submit an application for a professional driver profile to the communication department of the municipality concerned. The communication departments will be filled with applications, and this will extend the training process. Exams have so far been available in training centres. You transfer these exams to the voivodship centers, which will disorganize, fall asleep, block the work of the WORDs. State exam, ladies and gentlemen, only in Poland (the bell) is required. A national examination is not required anywhere in the European Union. This bill and the records you're making are bureaucracy, disorganization, and the worst part is that you don't take into account the attention of the transport industry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u192	Thank you very much, Member. The last question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have talked a lot about drivers in Poland, it is about Polish drivers and possibly drivers who want to work in Poland. Because it is an alignment with European Union law... Will the situation of Polish drivers who work abroad improve, or can there be at least some problems during the transition period? I would ask the Minister for brief information, to refer to the situation of Polish drivers working abroad. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u194	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u195	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the discussion that took place on this bill and here in the plenary room, and earlier at the committee meeting at first reading. I would like to thank all parliamentary clubs for their very detailed presentation of this draft law and what they are implementing in relation to road transport. Maybe I will not duplicate this information due to a certain time - we have a slight slip on the schedule of today's sitting - but I will focus mainly on those issues that have been raised by you and which raise some doubts, I understand. As regards the issue of e-learning, because this issue concerned the speech of your Members - an amendment has also been tabled - we are implementing the possibility of remote learning to the maximum extent. We allow in this project as much as the Directive allows. We see that e-learning is a forward-looking learning method, we know it worked out during the COVID-19 pandemic and we do not intend to block such a learning method or such a training method, also as regards the training component of professional drivers. We discussed in the Ministry of Infrastructure after first reading in the committee on how we can improve this e-learning procedure in the case of driver training centres. After reading the amendment of the Law and Justice Club, which has been introduced in this respect, as well as meeting expectations, we find that this is a positive solution, a solution which is that the training centre of drivers will not apply for permission to study remotely, but will inform the voivodeship office that such a teaching will lead. On the other hand, the only condition is 3 years of experience in this type of driving school. Why 3 years of experience? I think that because the driver training centre, which operates on the market for 3 years, has already established its position, is a reliable economic operator, has experienced staff as well as appropriate equipment and is able to train theoretically, remotely. We therefore support the amendment tabled by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice and thank you for the suggestion and for finding such a solution. As I say, in my view, this amendment is more liberal than the amendments that were tabled at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure. This is the first case. Case number two. With regard to the amendments tabled by Mr Suchon, I would like to say that we are just reading them. I think that we will respond precisely on this issue at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, which I think is due to give an opinion on these amendments today, and there we will present the position of the Ministry of Infrastructure. On the other hand, I am afraid that they deny the words which the Member has said here, that the project is moving towards the professionalisation of drivers who are subject to periodic training. If we are professional, we have certain expectations about the quality of the training, the quality of the staff and the quality of the vehicles that the training centre has, If we do not have such expectations and do not introduce rigors, then we do not fully professionalise. I think that what you have been able to present - and we will see - excludes the intention to focus even more strongly on ensuring that the training of drivers is carried out in an appropriate way, and we must say that road transport has been developing very strongly in recent years, and we hope that it will be so in the years to come. Professional drivers are not enough, we estimate that about 100,000 are missing. drivers, when it comes to heavy categories or running buses in Poland, this is the deficit. Companies feed on foreign drivers from countries outside the European Union. Okay, we don't see any problem here, but on the other hand, it is our duty to ensure that these drivers really operate heavy vehicles safely both in our country, in domestic transport, inside our homeland, and when they carry out international transports and drive in other countries of Western and Eastern Europe. In my view, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure to draw up legislation that will make it possible to ensure that the training of professional drivers is as high as possible. The next issue, which was raised by Mrs Wcisło, concerns exams in voivodship traffic centres. They will be more accessible there than are currently available in driver training centres. That's one thing. WORDs, as I know, are experiencing a crisis right now. Due mainly to the demographics of these exams in voivodship road traffic centres, there is much less than a few years ago, so that these new customers who appear will not block or block the voivodship road traffic centres. In addition, the fee for the exam will be much lower than currently. I think that the amount of PLN 50 per exam is not a knock-out amount, and at that level we determine it, so that the availability of these exams will be higher, and the cost of conducting them will be lower, and they are currently taking place in driver training centres. So much for the issues that have been raised. I know that the Committee on Infrastructure will evaluate and evaluate the amendments. The Ministry of Infrastructure will present its position on the amendments that have just been tabled by Mr Mirosław Suchon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u196	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Social Policy Committee and the Family on the draft law amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days (prints Nos 1446 and 1453). I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u197	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and some other days, print No 1446. According to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm Marshals of the Sejm addressed on 3 August 2021 the draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading and examination. The Act of 10 January 2018 on the restriction of trade on Sundays and holidays and on some other days entered into force on 1 March 2018. The main purpose of the Act was to gradually reduce trade in such a way as to enable trade workers, mostly women and mothers, to spend Sundays with families - a day which these families also have free of work. The assessment of the impact of the trade restriction on Sundays by the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology in 2019 shows that these restrictions did not have negative effects on trade. On the contrary, there has been a development of tourist services, catering services, accommodation services, which has increased the number of beneficiaries of the positive effects of this law. This undoubtedly brought Poland closer to the Western model of life, where trade facilities on Sundays and holidays are closed for a long time. The solidarity of our fellow countrymen, who, according to the data provided by employers' organisations and trade unions, shop from Monday to Saturday, is not to be underestimated. This amendment aims to eliminate the problem of circumvention of trade bans by certain establishments through the use of the exemptions contained in the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 point 7 of the Act, i.e. possession of post office status. At the same time, the current amendment responds to the expectations of entrepreneurs, extending the possibility of receiving free assistance from a spouse, own, adopted children, parents, stepmothers or stepfathers. There are also additional exemptions here, among others. for fishing holdings, agricultural products buying-in centres, and during the period from 1 June to 30 September, for establishments operating exclusively, with the emphasis on the word "only', trade in agricultural machinery or spare parts for such machinery. The proposed amendment will undoubtedly restore the principle of fair competition expected above all by businesses complying with the statutory restriction of trade. It will remove the current ambiguities and doubts regarding the application of the provisions of this law. September 14th this year the committee after a very thorough and long discussion, during which both MEPs and trade union representatives as well as employers presented their positions, carried out the first reading and considered the project. According to print report No 1453 the committee asks the High Sejm to adopt the bill submitted. I would add that the proposal was adopted with one abstention and no votes against. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u198	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. You will be the first to speak by Janusz Śniadek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u199	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on printing No 1446, a draft law amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. As early as February 2018, this law entered into force after long, turbulent discussions in the committee. As the rapporteur has already mentioned, she has gradually increased the number of Sundays in which there was a reduction in order to tame society with a new situation. As usual, it turned out at that time that this new law has some shortcomings, and already at the beginning of 2019 a preliminary amendment was prepared concerning above all the gap which created the possibility of carrying out postal activities only on the basis of the law - Postal law, which proved to be a huge gateway to increasingly widespread abuses. There, too, it required some clarification of what is happening now, that is, the identification of family members who can provide assistance free of charge. Some provisions on the agricultural sector were also required to be detailed. The outbreak of a pandemic, the launch of a lockdown, the change of the term of the Sejm caused a delay. Only now do we return to this law by means of this amendment and order primarily, I think, the insulting seriousness of the State's abuse of using - yes, according to law, someone will say - this gateway which is absolutely contrary to the intention of the legislators and which violates the principle of elementary fair competition, when more and more actors pretending - because this postal activity is very often apparent, even small - post offices, open on Sunday. This has started to increase especially recently, the growing networks have even declared in public, in the press readiness. Some of them, I suppose, were damning. The idea was to force Parliament to implement this amendment in order to block the solution that only allows unfair competition, as it may prove to be contrary to EU law, which requires regulation to guarantee fair competition for all operators in the economy. This is an additional reason for forcing or forcing this law to be introduced. The dispute that is taking place in connection with this law is a civil-cultural dispute. What life model will we choose in Poland? Is Poland supposed to be a neocolonial country, only a market for western goods, often worse quality, and sold at a higher price than Polish ones? Or do we, like in the Western countries, have to use various kinds of goods on Sundays: tourism, cinemas, theatres, sports, etc.? I'm not gonna do the math. The research carried out by the Ministry of Development at the beginning of 2019 absolutely confirms that both regional railways and gastronomy, tourism has benefited greatly from these solutions, at these limitations. This is confirmed by associations, business associations, micro-entrepreneurs who express their great satisfaction with this solution. And right now, they're asking for this bill to be sealed. In short, the sealing of this law will consist in the fact that those companies that wish to use the gates, the records that speak of the overwhelming activity, will be obliged to keep income registers and, as far as the sum is concerned - because it is possible to sum up various activities - that is to prevail, over 50% of all turnover... To check compliance - in the last month - this criterion (the bell) is authorised to inspect work, which will finally find an instrument to control this situation. Thank you very much, sir. Of course, the Law and Justice will vote in favour of this bill. And I'd like to make a few more adjustments for your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u200	Thank you very much. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u201	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The nature of the ban is that it's either in force or not. It's a simple construction. It's the same as in the Decalogue: you can't steal and there's no exceptions here that you can steal a little. The changes contained in the draft of this law, i.e. the tightening of trade restrictions on Sundays, prove precisely that this ban was already, by its very nature, a fiction. The legislator himself created the gates of lawful circumvention of this ban, because the inclusion of 32 exceptions in the original act - let me remind you: the law consisted of seven pages, of which three parties constituted exceptions - indicated that this was fully permitted and sanctioned. And this original law has generally translated, I ask you, into a restriction of economic freedom, a restriction of consumer freedom, and at the same time a preference for those who, on the basis of these 32 exceptions, could work, among others. fuel stations. There, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the range, regardless of the surface, it is possible to trade - until today, because this project, which is currently being examined in the High House, does not change anything in this regard - everything you want. There on Sundays you can sell and buy alcohol, cigarettes, ice cream, cookies as much as you want, and there are supposedly even gas stations where meat and meat are traded. So what is equal between entities and the law? I would like to remind you that from 2016 to 2019 more than 14 000 disappeared from the market. small grocery stores, Polish, family stores. [[Voice from the room: Polish.]] There were over 55,000 of them, and now there are 41,000 of them. Who, then, did this ban on trade serve on Sunday? Are you sure he served those who could open the store? Of course not. [[Voice from the hall: This is a lie.]] This project does not improve the situation of workers either, because this situation can only be improved - and this is the most effective, broad and universal, applied to all workers - in the context of the change of labour law. And then there's no question of whether someone turned their market into a post office. It is simply the law that should provide - we have tabled this amendment in that term, and we will also make it today - the right to more Sundays free. This is the only way to improve the situation of workers. [[Let's do this. Let's do this.]] This bill is a fiction, intended only for its entities. As far as petrol stations are concerned, I would just like to remind you that Orlen is moving forward with expansion, ladies and gentlemen, and by 2030 he wants to invest PLN 11 billion in the form of retail sales. [[Voice from the room: And very well, because it is a Polish company.]] [[Voice from the hall: And those shops weren't Polish?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u202	Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mrs... I would very much like to ask your fellow Members to remain calm in the courtroom. [[Voice from the hall: And women can work on Sundays?]] [[Polish women can work on Sundays.]] Ladies... Please, Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u203	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The answer to further measures restricting economic freedom, freedom of choice... [[Voice from the hall: But keep it down, please don't yell.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] ... Poles who want to decide themselves and say clearly that they are in favour of abolishing the restriction on trade on Sundays... 54% Poles and Poles say your bill: no. [[What was the question?]] Our answer to this is the amendments in which we speak directly: we abolish the restriction of trade on Sundays and at the same time provide a minimum of two free Sundays a month in workers' rights. These are also employees' demands. Tens of thousands of students cannot work, tens of thousands of shops, galleries, Polish shops run by Polish families cannot work. [[They can, they can't.]] Tens of thousands of Polish companies practice fiction, which allows the provisions of the previous law, and becomes post agencies so that they can earn bread so that they can guarantee their family income. [[What are you saying? Really.]] We are above all in favour of completing the article. 22 Constitution, which speaks of economic freedom, which is subject to protection, and Article. 65, which gives everyone freedom of choice. It can't be that your shifts are being used by Orlen, it's 2.5 grand. The station becomes a grocery store. [[Voice from the room: And Shell and BP don't use?]] What are you leading to? [[Voice from the room: You're talking stupid.]] [[You guys are in pain.]] I'm sorry. I'm asking you to calm down. Okay? We are in favour of giving all Poles and Poles free choice. [[Voice from the hall: I take Sundays.]] [[Voice from the room: Stupid talk.]] To give everyone freedom of choice. We don't want to limit anyone. Countries such as Spain, Greece, the Netherlands and even Hungary, which you are proud of, have restored trade on Sundays. They've gone away from the wrong solutions they've put in place. Listen again to Poles and Poles and give them the freedom of choice that you are restricting right now. That is why we are making amendments on this. We want to restore trade on Sundays and guarantee in workers' rights a minimum of two free Sundays for all who work on Sundays. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice in the O.R.: We reject.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u204	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left. [[Voice from the room: Chadecka party.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Sundays free of trade were introduced 3 years ago. It is a solution that allows employees to plan family life and regenerate after a week of hard work. This is the basic and most important argument for maintaining and sealing this provision. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] The trade ban on Sundays, according to the creators, had among others. support smaller shops, make them competitive against discounts and large-area markets. Those who expected that only for this reason small shops would suddenly stop disappearing, in my sense of expectation they had naive expectations. For decades, small companies have had an uneven fight with corporations. Large networks benefit from tax relief, they can employ specialists from so-called. tax optimization, they generally avoid compliance - the best example is the ban on trade on Sundays. Smaller shops are local companies, they don't make profits to tax havens, and they spend their income in the country. That is why we must support them by introducing a progressive tax system. We need to make it easier to run small businesses in such a way that the rules are clear and transparent and that small businesses are primarily able to offer good working conditions to workers. The trade ban on Sundays is not and will never be enough to support the owners of small shops, but it is certainly beneficial to them. If it hadn't been for him, the number of small stores would have dropped even faster. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[That's right.]] On the other hand, workers' well-being was at the heart of the establishment of free Sundays. In the debate on the surveys and public opinion held at the last meeting of the committee, on the functioning of the trade ban on Sundays and holidays, the lack of analyses on the quality of life and working conditions of those concerned, namely the employees of supermarkets and large-area shops, is striking. Such studies were carried out by NSZZ.Solidarity. They make it clear that only 2% employees are in favour of introducing additional payment for work on Sundays. The overwhelming majority of those asked about the opinions of trade workers claim that they need Sundays free. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: What do you say, Mr Boris?]] I recommend reviewing the results of this study to colleagues from the Civic Platform who stated at the committee meeting that they are in favour of freedom of choice for employees. [[Voice from the room: Employees, owners only.]] We have heard a lot of warm words from Members of the PIS at the committee meeting in relation to countries such as Spain, Belgium and France where the ban on trade on Sundays is valid. It is good that you sometimes look at the countries of Western Europe, but it is only a pity that so rarely and so selectively. [[Voice from the room: Always, always.]] The countries you have invoked not only offer, but also enforce much more favourable workers' rights than Poland. Western discounts, which in Poland are dulling trade unions, in those countries would not dare to raise their hands on them. [[Voice from the room: We'll figure it out.]] Many of these countries introduce a shorter week of work, guarantee higher rates for overtime and work on weekends. In the meantime, we are looking forward to the reform of the State Labour Inspection, which would allow us to enforce the law already in force in Poland. In the years preceding the ban on trade on Sundays, with a certain regularity, the media drew attention to the scandalous practices of commercial networks, hypermarkets and discountes vis-à-vis workers. We have heard about red dots on the floor, where employees had to wait for the manager's permission to go to the toilet, to wear pampers to work, not to pay overtime, 10-hour changes, the number of products scanned during a minute, mindlessly arranged graphics and 7-day weeks of work. Large commercial networks have largely avoided the Labour Code, employing workers in trash cans and using outsourcing, i.e. employing them by external companies. Free Sundays for trade workers were primarily intended to guarantee them a minimum rest, which their employer would not be able to take away from them, bypassing the rules, a minimum of time that they would certainly be able to spend with their family. This is the basis of this provision, we must not forget it, nor must we ignore it in this discussion. Today, larger trading networks with the same efficiency and - let's call it by name - the insolence with which they mock workers' rights are avoiding the ban on trade on Sundays, claiming that they are e.g. post offices. Once again, they're trying to rob their employees of free time... [[A voice from the hall: Aren't you ashamed?]] ...from the possibility of rest, family life, spending time with friends or whatever they want. That should be their choice. [[Voice from the hall: Shame on you.]] The left has always stood clearly on the side of the workers and has consistently fought for their rights. It is therefore clear to us that it is necessary to seal the rules in force so that all workers are confident that the law will also be respected in their workplace. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u206	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u207	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present to you the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days from print No 1446. Today, after 3 years of validity of the Act, we can say that it was not well prepared, it was defective, it was holes, it should be sealed and amended. From the very beginning, the Act has caused various emotions, has even become a political problem. This law has further divided the world of workers and employers. Surely, the statutory trade ban on Sundays gave thousands of workers of large networks and shopping malls a rest, who are guaranteed a holiday day off work. Many workers were expecting such solutions. This solution was accepted, well accepted by Polish families, families of those workers who have been waiting for them for years. However, it is not true that the proposalor's statement contained in the justification for the amendment of the Act is that, as a result of the introduction of the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays, positive aspects related to the situation of micro-entrepreneurs and small shops have been observed, because within 3 years of the ban on trade on Sundays, 6.5 thousand have been lost. Stores. The biggest drop was made by small facilities, so the ones that were banned were to help. The act created a habit among buyers of buying more goods in large-scale shops on Fridays and Saturdays, which is also encouraged by active advertising campaigns. The thesis resulting from the justification of the project is not entirely true, which says that as a result of the introduction of the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days, the development of tourist, accommodation or restaurant services has been observed. In this respect, no studies or analyses have been submitted, ladies and gentlemen. We remember that it was a time of pandemic, so there were a number of restrictions, and the tourism, gastronomic or cultural industries were fighting for survival at that time. A lot of these companies went bankrupt, too. There's a third party to the dispute. They are representatives of discount and franchisees who, of course, are in favour of restoring trade every Sunday. Research shows that Poles are also divided on this issue: half is in favour of opening up trade and the other half is against. After hearing the opinion of many trade unions such as NSZZ.Solidarity, representatives of the Społem, Leviathan, the General Council of Trade and Services Associations, it is concluded that, in addition to the proposed amendment of the law, it is also necessary to extend the catalogue of aid to Polish small entrepreneurs, so that this entrepreneur, who stands behind the counter on Sunday, can have aid in the form of even further members of the family who could be employed, not only those proposed in the amendment of the law. Or maybe it's worth a compromise, ladies and gentlemen, and leave one commercial Sunday... [[No.]] ...in a month, what would be a good solution for the economy? This amendment proposal on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party will be placed on the hands of your marshal in a moment. On the other hand, the discussion on this law has shown that there is still much to be done about improving the social working conditions of large-scale shops and more. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party makes appropriate amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u208	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u209	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 towards the parliamentary bill amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. High Izbo! I think we all agree that this bill doesn't work. It does not only work because there are exceptions in this law and these exceptions allow you to observe these regulations, but also does not work because it hurts many employees. Every Sunday several hundred thousand people who are not covered by this law work hard, work every Sunday, every Sunday every month. It is, of course, absolutely unfair that these laws, which the Law and Justice presented, embraced relatively little of what is happening today on the market, working on Sundays for a group of people. [[Voice from the room: We need to expand.]] Of course, it is also necessary to say openly, and I think very strongly that there is no going back to what was. There is no return because the rules that were in force earlier did not provide an adequate balance between working life and private life. It was very necessary, so we have no doubt that what happened should not come back. On the other hand, there are a lot of arguments that convince us that this state of affairs today, this ban today, is simply wrong. You don't have to be Either for or against, there's only the third way. You can find a solution that will benefit the employees, benefit the companies and benefit the market. First of all, I want to take the young people's side here, because they're not going to work at the pharmacy today, they're not going to work at the hospital, they're not competent. Many of them worked in commerce, thus making money for college and banning trade on Sundays of these young people just hurt. We need to be clear about this. You can also ask trade workers if they support this ban. This study was conducted in 2018. It turns out that 40% He wants to work on Sunday. For the next 20% It doesn't matter. [[A voice from the room: No!]] [[Bullshit! Where's the data coming from?]] What's more, if we get a proposal that I'm about to talk about, which is an extra salary on Sunday for work, we'll find that only 15% Trade workers would not have taken up work at that time. This means that trade workers want to work, only want to be treated, respected and well paid. And that's what's missing today. I want to tell you that Poles have also seen that this ban is not good. In 2016, in one study, 61% supported it. , today as much as 55% He wants his trade back on Sunday. 68% of Poles think it's a good step after the pandemic. We need to listen to these voices, so we make a good proposal, we put a thoughtful, reasonable solution on the table today, two Saturdays off on Sundays... [[♪ The bell ♪]] two free Sundays mandatory for employees free each month and 50% supplement the lowest wage to be paid... Thank you very much, sir. ...always when a salesman works on Sunday. Thank you very much. That's the right thing to do. I present them to your marshal, and I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you, sir. She is good for everyone and meets the expectations of the citizens. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u210	Please, Mrs Agnieszka, go after the Polish cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u211	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Cases Parliamentary Circle regarding the proposed bill, which is to seal the Act on the restriction of trade on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. Ladies and gentlemen! The law operates over a year of time, had two main objectives mentioned here: the social, cultural goal, one that would give people who work in trade, rest and somehow strengthen family relationships, allow the various other branches of the Polish industry to have a chance to develop, and the second, very important from my point of view, from the point of view of Polish Affairs, one that would give the impulse to strengthen small Polish trade. I say: small Polish trade, because I regret that we cannot say that Polish trade or large Polish trade at all, because there is simply no such trade. For many, many years such privileged laws or solutions for large companies and large commercial networks in Poland have led to the fact that really Polish trade has simply disappeared. I say this from the position of the city of Krakow, the city of merchants and merchants, where all these small establishments disappeared regularly. This law introduced some exceptions during operation and these exceptions caused many problems. There were also exceptions that really allowed the small Polish trade to be strengthened. There were even some brave small entrepreneurs who took up the challenge of competing with large networks and actually strengthened themselves, and they were very positive about it in some way. Unfortunately, something collapsed, and it collapsed when - I have to say it with regret - while celebrating the most this law, the single-member company of the Treasury of the State Post Polska simply signed a contract with large networks, with Biedronka, with Lidl, against the provisions of this law. And that's how this amendment was made. I dare say that the ban on trade and the ban on postal services, the total ban on trade at all, would not interfere with these large commercial networks at all, did not disturb them at all. And they didn't do the bypassing to boost their income, because, as the data showed, these networks just made more money during this trade restriction, which was better, they made money on Saturdays, they had money. But this breach caused them to come up with a brilliant idea: how to finish off this emerging competition actually. Just causing this disturbance, using the Polish Post and leading to such total sealing, so as not to give oxygen to these small shops. They're gonna stand it, they're gonna have profits for a year of time, and those who competed are just gonna disappear. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] That's why I'm making an amendment... [[That's great.]] That's why I'm making an amendment that will allow these little entrepreneurs to get oxygen... [[Polish, Polish, Polish.]] ...keeps Polish because it is very important, Polish capital that we need. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I'm asking for your support, because it's really gonna be... [[Polish, not capital.]] ...the extra effect, and it really doesn't create a breach to limit. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Well, that's the first time I'll approve of you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u212	Thank you very much, Member. [[Member, that's great.]] Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? Do it. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice. And I'm asking you to cool your emotions in the courtroom. You're welcome, sir. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to speeches, especially by Mr Boris, I come to the conclusion that he does not sense the needs of Polish families when it comes to Sundays, especially the employees of commercial networks. Well, if you were polite to look on the Internet, you would find on every page, on every portal that employees do not want to work on Sundays, do not want, do not want more money, prefer to be at home with children on Sundays. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Another day a week for who? For a single mother because her husband's at work and the kid's at school? This is ridiculous. Trade on Sunday, limited by the Solidarity Act, has proven itself. However, I have a question to ask your applicant: Will the too far-reaching freedom of interpretation of the rules be sufficiently effectively sealed, also so that the controlling labour inspectors have important tools to check their income records? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u214	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to recent surveys, as has already been mentioned, there is 55% for restoring trade on Sunday. Poles, 14% He doesn't have an opinion, and only 30% are in favor of maintenance... [[Voice from the room: What was the question in the survey? What was the question in the survey?]] It is no wonder, therefore, that the Poles are avoiding your ban, because that is just how they feel. Small shops are getting worse. [[Have the employees or consumers been asked?]] It was also said that 14,000. The shops have already fallen because of your reforms. The inflation gallops, and you continue to make life even more difficult for Poles. This expensive thing that you've led to will only keep going, because these stores must somehow make up for the loss of taking away their right to earn money on Sundays. And contrary to what you say in your populist narrative, the ban on trade does not protect anybody's rights but limits them, because instead of providing workers who expect it... [[The right to earn money on Sundays, my God...]] ...free Sundays, you banned everyone, including those who want to work on Sundays. There's a lot of them, because they're like students or students. Why don't you introduce, as we suggest, the rights to two free Sundays for every employee in a month instead of coercion that doesn't suit anyone? Why do you (the bell) take the opportunity to work for those who simply want to work then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u216	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. [[Voice from the room: What is this nonsense?]] [[Voice from the hall: What nonsense?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing in the colloquials. The Member asks a question on the floor. I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, As a Member who also acts as a legislator, I feel it is my duty to protect the weaker. Protecting the weaker in dispute with this great employer is to stand on the side of the employee, his right to rest, to be in the family, just to be able to arrange all these relationships. Unfortunately, the greats have found a suitable gateway to celebrate the resolution of this law by means of the creation of postmarks. The employees of security companies were also intervening in my parliamentary office, saying that in the industrial centre, those who celebrated this right, using these solutions, were also violating their rights. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why it's important to seal this law and... [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u218	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u219	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To begin with, a small correction, because I heard that I did not express myself very precisely in the position of the wheel. It was, of course, 50% of the hourly rate resulting from the minimum wage for work. On the other hand, I have a question for the Member of the applicant. During the last year 1600 small shops disappeared from the commercial map of Poland. These are, of course, not only grocery stores, but also small clothing stores, often located in shopping galleries, because small entrepreneurs, because small Polish companies did not stand this ban and fell. And as if another element connected with this law is that Poles, and this is the result of research, are increasingly choosing international large commercial networks, they are shopping there, while in fact small shops use the least. And a question for the Member of the applicant. Do you really think that this helps small Polish companies - this is the situation in which they fall? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u220	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One of my previous speakers put an interesting point to the discussion, that it might be worth introducing a regulation on half of working Sundays and half of free Sundays. He also offered to raise his wages in these working ones. I wanted to ask, Minister, whether there have been studies carried out on whether Poles would choose to do so, because we heard from one of the Members of the PiS that all Poles want to spend Sundays with their family. I congratulate him on knowing almost 40 million Poles, but I doubt he has time to question everyone on the fact that everyone really wants to spend this day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u222	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Richard Galla, not associated. Are you an MP? There's no envoy. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u223	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am a person who purchases both in small family shops and uses these large shops, because sometimes you have to be there too. Then I talk to the owners of the small shops and the employees of the big ones. In general, I have to say that everyone was very pleased with the changes made and, similarly, everyone was dissatisfied with the fact that this provision was being avoided in such a typical business way - that a gateway was introduced here in the form of this unfortunate mail. These changes that we are proposing at the moment are very positive by these people. And I'll give you an example. My wife works in a big shop, my husband works at the Ostrowiec plant in a four-brigade system, and before that they met once every few weeks on Sundays. I have a question, Minister: Will the changes made (the bell) be tight? Will they really allow them to be avoided? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u224	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u225	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, after these 3 years, we are seeing very negative effects of the law. You've made a lot of entrances that have led to this ban on trade not being a ban on everyone. They're better and worse. There are those who can work, and there are those who can't work. There are those who can relax on Sundays with children, and yet others work. What is your justice? It is worth noting that according to public opinion polls almost 52% of Poles think that the ban on trade is unnecessary, 28% of them noticed that this caused financial problems for companies, 25% Says it's a reason to close down the stores. 68% Poles believe that the restoration of commercial Sundays would make up for losses from the lockdown closure and your epidemiological sharpenings. The presented project, instead of helping, will only deepen the negative effects, such as (The Bell) closing small shops and thus job losses, as well as imposing additional obligations on entrepreneurs related to sales records. Thank you very much, Member. Why does the PiS government, instead of improving workers' working conditions, re-submit a project against them? Where is your concern for them?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u226	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u227	High Izbo! Free time and rest of employees is a value. I wanted to start with something else, but I have one sentence to say. Three years ago, big business and its political representatives said that the introduction of free Sundays would bring economic armageddon. [[That's what happened.]] There is no economic armagedon, and that must be said here and from this platform. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You can have different opinions, argue on different subjects, but in this Chamber, one thing should be obvious: the law we make here should be serious. If we're dating some rules, they should apply. If they're being avoided, it needs to be prevented, and this bill needs to be fixed. This is something that I think should be clear to all of us. But I must ask the question, not to the Members of the applicant, but to the Government: What year is it, Minister? How is it that the labour inspection from the very beginning has been signaling problems since 2018 and it has been 36 months before we took care of it, and it is only because it is a parliamentary project? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How is it, Minister, that these problematic regulations that have opened the door to the big trading networks to bend the law have appeared in the law? Thank you very much, sir. Although they were not in the civic project, they appeared when the government packed them to a large extent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u228	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice. Is there a Member? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u229	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law on amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays is a very important project, socially expected. First of all, it aims to eliminate pathology, bypassing the law by owners of large commercial networks. In order to trade on Sundays and force workers to work against their will, they introduce delivery and parcel collection services in their stores and thus become a post office. [[Through the Polish Post Office.]] This is a clear avoidance, the exploitation of the right to its particular interests, because these services are, in fact, you know, fiction. You are well aware of this because the appeals of the "Solidarity," an independent self-governing trade union, have also reached you. The trade unionists in these appeals have just claimed that these rules are being used and avoided in order to trade on Sunday. They were outraged to write to you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm afraid you're not listening to this. Thank you very much, Member. They also wrote about the over-normative workload at work. Minister! I would like to ask you to what extent these regulations actually seal... Thank you very much, Member. ... trade restrictions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u230	Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! I don't think anyone had any doubts that from the beginning of the trade ban project on Sunday was purely ideological and mainly because of the imposition of the way in which Poles should live, you introduced this solution. [[For you, family is an ideology.]] If at any point it was about employees' rights and the right to spend time with your family, why did you choose Sundays instead of Saturdays? [[Voice from the hall: For this is a holy day.]] Why not introduce a solution - if it is an obligation - so that two Saturdays and two Sundays are free for each employee? It's very similar... And it should be obvious to everyone that if someone wants to work these days, they can work for a higher salary. If you were thinking about employees, you'd make the rules that it's a better paid day and that two Sundays, two Saturdays a month, every employee has a day off. [[Voice from the hall: Do you have an open parliamentary office on Sunday?]] Yeah, I worked Sundays, I worked in blind studies. [[Let's go!]] Remember one thing: students, a lot of people... [[Voice from the courtroom: But does the parliamentary office...]] ...who either work or learn in a week, they wanted to work on Sunday. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You just want to decide for people how to live. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u232	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to calm down. Mr... [[Your Marshal, that side is still in the way, all the time.]] Ladies and gentlemen, because I really... Quiet in the courtroom, please, okay? Please, Mrs Marcelina Zawisza.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u233	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Sundays were in a sense something that Poles and Poles were just waiting for. Studies show that people spend their time in parks, playgrounds, places where they can spend it with their family. Those trade workers who had a problem meeting their families earlier use that time exactly like this. However, there were gaps which signalled trade unions, the State Labour Inspection. A country that allows such holes in the law to exist is a country that is ridiculous. That's why I'm glad we're working on this project right now. Question is, when are we gonna patch the other holes? When are we gonna get rid of the garbage deal? When we introduce a real law that allows people to get paid on time and not (the bell) when the employer... Thank you. ...does she feel like it? [[Applause]] Thank you very much. We have a lot of work to do and we need to do it now. [[Voice from the room: But we do...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u234	Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u235	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Civic Platform wants to fully restore trade on Sunday without restrictions, arguing this free choice of Poles. What a perverse thing to do. [[Voice from the room: Interesting.]] What choice will be made by trade workers forced to work on Sunday, workers of which 80% are women, including mothers? [[Applause]] [[Yes.]] Members of the Platform here, from this speaker, also speak untruth, because the bill stopped the decrease in the number of companies in Poland... [[She prevented the slaughter.]] ...and the buyer's voice is this: If the government pulled out of free Sundays, then all we have to do is steal their stores. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Yes, because the bill saved small Polish shops from falling. [[Applause]] [[You're lying. You don't know what you're saying.]] I have a question, Minister: How did the law restricting trade on Sunday affect the economy of leisure time? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How it affected the tourism area, the hotel industry... Thank you very much, Member. ...and the restaurant sector? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u236	Thank you very much. Please, Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u237	The Festival of Hypocrisy crosses all limits. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: True.]] Your Marshal... Defenders of workers' rights... [[Voice from the room: Hypocrites.]] ...they're not in favour of introducing a minimum of two Sundays free to the Labour Code, which would guarantee... [[Voices from the O.R.: Four!]] ...all of them... [[But we want four!]] ...and not depending on the whims of the legislator, that they will be free. Marshal, I understand that a little longer I can... [[We want four.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the courtroom. ...because they take such a serious subject so seriously and make a hump out of it, especially the Member who keeps making the theater here. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have a question for the Member of the applicant. Why, for example? in bakeries, bakeries, ice cream shops you will need to keep records of whether half the minimum income is obtained from bakery and confectionery products, and this does not need to be done at fuel stations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't you have to do that at hotels? And I have a question for you because you're close to the trade unions, NSZZ.Solidarity. How many hotel establishments does he have in his wallet? [[Voice from the room: What does that have to do with anything?]] Thank you very much. Because then, too, it may be clear why this privilege is for hotel establishments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mr... [[What about the stigmatization?]] You're welcome, sir. Members on the floor, if they do not violate the dignity of others, have the right to express their views, even very critical, with which you do not agree. [[Mrs...]] And you're welcome to listen to this. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u239	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will start with the Minister because the PiS Members are asking you questions here. They say small shops have been saved. And it's known that 1,600 stores were killed. They ask you how it affected tourism. The lady who justified this project said it affected tourism. Nice lady, I think we live in two countries. 32% last year people employed in hotels lost their jobs. [[Voice from the room: But the pandemic... Mr. President.]] The companies have fallen. And you're saying that this project makes them perfect. [[Didn't you notice there was a pandemic?]] Minister, I'd like to know... [[Mama's pandemonium.]] ...what is the government's position regarding this bill, the whole bill. Are we going on a sealing issue, or are we going on a sealing issue? Because if you're sealing up, we should propose (the bell) appropriate regulations regarding the Labour Code. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u240	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u241	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! How many words the opposition uses to process this bill. Namely, we break the Decalogue. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lack of awareness and knowledge of the Ten Commandments. The third is clear: the holy day is holy. [[Applause]] You have some kind of déjà vu. On the one hand, you strive for this, you say that Poland is a country... [[Game in the O.R.]] And now you're in the way. Ladies and gentlemen, please... ...is a country that constantly deviates, does not take an example from Western countries, Germany, Spain, the Netherlands. What happened? After all, in these countries there is a total ban on trade on Sundays. And you want to make your mothers happy at all costs. [[Voice from the room: Women.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the family for the Government of Law and Justice is the foundation. And that mother - and women in 80% They work in commerce - he wants to be with children that day, is it so weird for you? You want to segregate, you want a woman's bell... Thank you very much. ...to make them happy to work in supermarkets? Shame. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Lidka!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u242	Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition. And I'm still asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The effects of reducing trade on Sundays are undoubtedly multiple and not fully diagnosed. But it is absolutely certain that the objectives pursued by this law and, in particular, the objective of strengthening small businesses in the field of trade and services have not been achieved. Conversely, at that time, the number of small businesses, generally family businesses, decreased by 1/3 and by almost 1/3, the number of bankruptcies increased. I have a question, ladies and gentlemen. Why didn't the government monitor the consequences of the implementation of this law in this respect and why didn't the government try to prevent this adverse phenomenon? Thank you very much, Member. To whom did this project serve, and why did it not serve small businesses? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u244	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u245	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Lawmaking generating change and economic and social change should not at the same time generate derogatory behaviours of the state. And it wasn't taken care of. Trade networks have painfully mocked the legislator and, as I understand it, it pays off and generates big profits. There's no problem shopping on Sunday, except maybe a terrible crowd in supermarkets. So I have a question. In the context of restoring this seriousness to the state and sealing and radically separating the possibility of carrying out commercial services from the possibility of carrying out postal services, you plan to restore the seriousness of e.g. Polish post office, restricting the sale of devotionals, cookies, candy, juice, toys, mediocre literature, cobblers, soaps and bushes to the post office? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The voice from the hall: That's funny.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u246	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u247	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2018, a citizens' project on reducing trade on Sunday, which signed half a million citizens, was launched by the Government of Law and Justice. The project has largely met the expectations of its creators, while the law has been ignored in a disgraceful way. Today we seal it and cause that this law will not be circumventd. We're not doing anything else. The State of the Civic Platform, on the other hand, is making the same arguments that you made three years ago, sucked out of your finger, which are not based on any economic data. Ladies, you say you defend women's rights. I'm asking which women? That's $300,000. employed in commerce, in Biedronka... [[Voice from the hall: In Orlena.]] ...who were sitting on the money with the pampers? Are you defending these women's rights? What you're talking about is simply unimaginable. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're talking about data and closing small stores. In 2011, more than 30,000. companies were closed. The trend has been stopped. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u248	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u249	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today you admit that three years ago you introduced a legal bubble, which just entrepreneurs, and it's from these large trading networks, most often with foreign capital, just skipping by. You admit your mistake. We have said that it is best not to introduce such a law at all, that it is better to amend the Labour Code so that employees are guaranteed in the Labour Code two Sundays off. [[Four Sundays.]] Minister! I'd like to... [[In the Labour Code, this is already guaranteed, apart from trade.]] I didn't bother you... I'm sorry, 'cause one side gets the other's attention. Ladies and gentlemen, in a moment, I will literally pay attention to everyone. What's all this for? [[Voice from the room: 'Cause you're lying.]] I didn't bother you, so I would also ask you not to bother me either. [[Voice from the room: Sorry.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to answer the question, Minister, what is the difference between a worker who works in a private shop, a family store, from an employee who works in Orlena or another commercial network that sells on Sunday. With what? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why does this employee have to work on this Orlena, and at a small grocery store she can't? Therefore, let us guarantee two Sundays free for employees. They won't be able to work in Orlena either. [[What about Shell?]] You're really afraid of this because you know you're doing another bill for Orlen employees, not small shops, family businesses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u250	Thank you very much, sir. I ask that we respect our fellow speakers. Please, Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u251	The restrictions on trade on Sundays and holidays aroused and controversial. They dominate the views, and the left, and from the law that we should protect our family businesses, small traders. Therefore, I have a question of why in the article. Article 6 (6) (a) The 4th proposed exemption law is only about the children of the owner, and there is no mention of the child of the married couple. They should be up front and down. At that time, these arguments fell. If he were an older man, If the lady who runs the store could hire a student on Sunday, a learner, a granddaughter or a granddaughter. Conversely, a young man could hire his grandmother or his grandfather in good condition. As far as families are concerned (the bell), it would probably be necessary to add the siblings of the owner, not just a very limited part of the family. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u252	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u253	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I have a question for Members of the Civic Coalition, who are so fighting for open shops on Sundays, whether they have parliamentary offices open on Sundays or whether they are taking in stakeholders on Sundays. [[Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] I have experience with District 11, from Sieradz. Unfortunately, my colleagues from the Civic Platform have closed these parliamentary offices. Ladies and gentlemen! In the history of the Polish parliament, parliamentarianism were disgusting cases of Members who sat in this House, but did not represent Poles, but external interests, interests of the stronger. And I think that today, unfortunately, we are also in this House. Representatives of the Civic Coalition seceded PKN Orlen, the national good, encouraged the boycotting of purchases at this station and the services of this station, accusing and insulting journalists of the Polish Television (Dawn) and at the same time openly advertising one of the foreign stations. There's a complement to it today. You defend the interests of foreign corporations, not Polish children and mothers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u254	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u255	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS changes trade rules again on Sunday. The solutions so far have proved to be leaky and full of contradictions. You didn't listen to the social partners, who a few years ago pointed out that the bill was broken and that it wouldn't achieve its goals. It's the same now. Perhaps it would be better to give citizens the right to decide when they can shop and that workers are entitled to two free Sundays, all workers, not just from the commercial sector. [[Voice from the room: It's a civic project.]] The first time, ladies and gentlemen, you almost shut down the cemetery trade, so absurd was your bill. It's a good thing someone read it before you voted it out. And my question to the applicants: Do you have any expertise showing that the privilege of trade on Sunday is not a form of state aid? And the second question: Do you have any prioritising expertise (the bell) that the rules introduced do not infringe European Union law, in particular Article. 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the right of establishment? Thank you very much. [[It hasn't been done yet.]] [[In Germany.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u256	Thank you very much. I ask you to remain calm, my fellow Member. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen, one party requires the other to behave culturally, please follow these rules. Please, Mr Maciej Necessary, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What's there to talk about? We agreed that trade workers, shopping malls, markets are free on Sundays. And it is very good that we agreed to do so because Poles work too long. This balance between work and private life is very disturbed with us. Actually, thanks to these free Sundays. Poles can go out of town together with their loved ones, they can go to a game, they can go to church, they can spend time together. [[Voice from the room: Whatever they want.]] And that's a good law. But now what's happening? Ladybug comes out and says, "Look at me, I'm the mail. Lidl comes out and says, look at me, I'm the mail. This is a mockery of the Polish state. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] And this hole obviously needs to be patched up. And there is only one question: Could this be avoided? Was it possible to prepare this law without obvious gaps? [[You couldn't have.]] And if these gaps appeared at the stage of government work, I ask: What devils have worked here, and is it not possible that these devils may not allow government work next time? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The point is, it's not the lobbyists who dictate what the law is, and it's not the lobbyists who put holes and holes in it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u258	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Leszek Galemba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u259	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, please answer if there are two Sundays in the Labour Code that belong to an employee. [[In a month.]] [[In a month.]] In a month. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Members here deny it. I also have a question for those Members who are so asking for this trade to take place on Sunday. Are you working on Sunday? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] Yes? You're working and resting. Because, in the previous term of office, a Member on the left was leaving and asked that the meeting be held on Friday at the end of the day. 12. And several times, I remember that. [[From Kukiz.]] No, it's more like Modern. Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment orders and protects the family above all, because families deserve free time on Sunday. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At least that's the duty of all of us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u260	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Do you equally care about all women who work in commerce on Sundays? No, because the state doesn't care about the ones that work at petrol stations, for example, and they also work in commerce. [[Voice from the hall: This is service.]] Yes? Service? There is service there, but in another trade it is no longer service. Why do you not care about other workers who work, for example? In the maintenance services, the doctors, the drivers? Why don't you write it down for them in the Labour Code on two Sundays off? Why don't you? [[But they are, they are.]] [[Voice from the room: It's written.]] In this bill, ladies and gentlemen, you have introduced 32 exceptions, and it is actually very easy to circumvent. Therefore, we ask you again and we explain to you: leave it alone, stop treating people like this, give people a chance to choose and also give workers equal rights. Do not choose one group at the expense of others. [[Applause]] [[The employee is out of the question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u262	Thank you very much, Member. And here you are, Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It is clear that the debate on trade on Sunday is an ideological issue. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] You can see the liberals and you can see the fierceness of the people of faith. [[Voice from the hall: But the communists are sick of it too.]] But I wanted to ask you another question. There were three phenomena in terms of the huge turnover of trade on Sunday in the case of foreign networks. The first is to take money abroad, for many years not controlled at all. The second is an open door, even a gate for goods from abroad, which were sent to Poland. Whether they were better or worse than Polish. However, this phenomenon was very visible. Polish goods were missing there. Finally, exploitation of workers, as the Left says, is a serious problem in terms of human dignity and workers' rights. In the initial phase... I will say again: for several years (the bell) it was common. I wanted to ask if these phenomena exist today and on what scale. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u264	Please, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have a question and a request to the Minister because he has more time than I have, a few seconds to tell you what's going on here. Yes, it's Sundays, but it's really more than that. Today we see here a dispute between two visions of the state, as we see in the audience. 20 years together here in the Seym we practiced this, all political groups have touched these roots of evil, this extremely neoliberal or liberal ideology that has caused great harm and harm. Yes, in this camp, in the left and in the middle. And now we see: a party that calls itself Chadeca, a party that always had closer to the rich, strong, to the capital not necessarily Polish, in fact here today discrediting itself still explains that these free Sundays have harmed the small business. Mrs Beyat explained to everyone here that if it weren't for these Sundays off, it would be the slaughter of small Polish companies. [[Exactly.]] Understand this (the bell), this is the element of economics. I have to go, but the Minister will explain. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u266	Thank you very much. I would now like to see Mrs Claudia Jachira. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u267	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Security Committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Socialism is a system in which difficulties unknown in any other system are heroically overcome," said Stefan Kisielewski. [[Speak to the marshal.]] First you introduce a law against work, and then you're surprised that people don't care about this non-life ban in different ways. He cares about them because they want to work, because unlike your party nomenclature, they have to keep their family alive because they have to pay for their studies from work at the register. [[Applause]] Maybe work is a punishment for you because you'd rather steal and avoid responsibility... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You're talking about your experience, I think.]] ...but for millions of Poles and Poles work is a possibility of professional development, an opportunity to realize dreams, an opportunity to meet friends, a way to live a decent life. It is your Soviet mentality that the company has to become a post office to conduct trade, and surprisingly it does it better than that to feel sorry for God for your state mail, which trades in deviants, organizes elections, but does not deliver shipments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm gonna end one more classic thought. [[Voice from the hall: Go all the way!]] Politics shouldn't disrupt ordinary people's private lives. Therefore, instead of this hopeless right to seal, bear the cause of it and give people peace on Sunday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u268	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Anna April. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Well, we're about to leave it alone.]] We ask you very much to allow Mrs April to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u269	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My predecessor has just challenged all the Western countries from the Soviets because the shops are closed on Sundays. [[Applause]] And women have a chance to take care of their family, spend time with them, with their children. Ladies and gentlemen! Very often, colleagues from the opposition - I am speaking here to colleagues from the Civic Coalition - speak loudly about how they care about women. I appeal to you, ladies, to take care of women working in commerce. 80% The employees are the women there who work at the register every day. Believe me, very often, before this law entered into force three years ago, it was these women who demanded free Sundays. They want to spend these Sundays with their husbands, their children, their moms and their dads. And let them have a chance not on two Sundays, but on all four Sundays off. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u270	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Magdalena Filiks to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In general, I would support any bill that would really support the majority of our society, because I believe that this is the role of politics to carry out not its fictions, but the will of society. It's just that in this discussion, I'm gonna have a little bit of trouble all the time. The ban on trade introduced by you on Sundays from month to month, as you look at research, from the very beginning raises growing opposition and social resistance. And I will refer only to recent studies that say that, depending on the research, between 55% a 59% society is against it, and in large cities it is between 64% a 70% , depending on the tests. I'll tell you why not in the country because I've been living in the country for six months. That's where all the grocery stores are open, which is why this percentage is smaller. So I'm asking you why we want to make people happy against their will. You are not right that society supports this. And that's my question... [[But a spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises.]] Please don't disturb me. That is the question I have asked here, Mr Sniadek. He simply said that this is actually a civilizational and neocultural dispute, as he called it. [[Cultural.]] And that is why I believe that this is simply your manifestation of the Catholic system of values (the bell), which you want people to force to celebrate on Sundays. You don't follow the public and listen to the public. [[Applause]] And because you interrupted me, I'm gonna ask for a second, because I can't talk, you can't talk like that, you're screaming here all the time. If you really wanted to help these workers - and I would support any such project - we would sit here in the Sejm and talk about how those people who do not want to work on Sundays and have hard work, provide even three free Sundays a month, because I was a supporter of three free Sundays and even everyone in corporations where there is such hard work, and we would talk about something else. But we are arguing, as Mr Cymanski said, is a civilization dispute. That is what I wanted to say to you, sir, only that you are losing this argument. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Because civilization is on...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u272	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Mr Tadeusz Wozniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We're dealing with different views of reality. We can look at reality in accordance with the Liberty principle of doing what you want. We can look at reality in accordance with the St. Augustine love and do what you want, We can look at reality in accordance with the principle of liberalism, also economic liberalism, which comes from the assumption that, absolutely every person is guided by the principle of material benefit. And I tell you, not everyone follows the principle of material gain. People work to live, not to earn money, especially at the expense of others. [[Exactly.]] I am a follower of the philosophical trend, which is called solidarism, as well as personalism. The most important thing for me is man, and the most important thing for you is class. The most important thing for you is the mammon (the bell), and the man for you is only an element of exploitation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The insults, the insults, and this is the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u274	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I keep wondering why on such an important point, an issue that is important for millions of Poles, we cannot talk in this room without emotion, with mutual respect for the right. It seems that, with the support that society makes for shopping on Sundays, the proposal that trade would be possible every other Sunday - and every other Sunday the employee would be free - and on a Sunday where trade would be possible, the worker would make a lot more money, which would also enable students to work, seems to be a very compromise solution. It also seems that we can really do this after these 3 years of experience, so that, on the basis of research, on the basis of an expert study, which also has a ministry, we can carry out actions that would lead us to good results. I call on us in this room to use less emotion, less ideological, and more rational arguments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u276	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Olichwer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u277	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! While one of the reasons for banning trade on Sundays, which gives Poles the opportunity to spend more time with their families, may seem right, the other arguments are not. The ban didn't have any intended effects. He didn't help little independent groceries. Their numbers are still dropping. In the implementation of the regulations also lost employees... [[That's not true!]] ...doing weekend work, mostly students. Moreover, because of the pandemic, they did not benefit, as originally assumed, from sectors such as tourism, hotels, gastronomy, recreation or culture. Importantly, as research shows, most Poles are currently demanding that trade be restored on all Sundays. Therefore, I have a question: What are the real reasons for further tightening (the bell) the rules on the prohibition of trade on Sundays? However, perhaps the most opposed are right, claiming that this is the next step in restricting our freedom.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u278	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Małgorzata Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS Members have drawn up a bill that is yet to tighten up the ban on trade on Sundays. Don't PiS Members understand that if Poles celebrate the ban on trade on Sundays, this means that they do not want this ban? 55% Poles recently advocated the restoration of trade on Sundays and 61% believes that after the pandemic it would be a good idea to improve the economic situation of many companies. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, it is necessary to guarantee at least two free Sundays for workers. Economic freedom and freedom of choice. Everyone has the right to use cinemas, theatres, walks or church on Sundays. You raise this argument all the time: the holy day is holy. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all Thank you. [[No. What a stupid thing to say to you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u280	Thank you very much. [[Just now you're...]] The question will be asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Pay no attention.]] Excuse me, please do not discuss in the Parliamentary benches, because there is already a Member on the stand who wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The project strengthens the rules on the prohibition of trade on Sundays. [[Seal.]] Seal, tighten. Don't correct me and don't censor me. The existing rules eliminated around 14 thousand from the Polish market. small, most often family, companies, and those that remain today have to deal with unfavorable regulations and commercial corporations, with networks that have used the gap in regulations, signed agreements with companies of the State Treasury, with the Polish Post, created postal posts. And today we're investigating this bill. Only that these commercial networks will manage without commercial Sundays, and Polish, domestic companies will not, while they pay taxes in Poland. Of course, the rule does not apply to all, because it excludes certain entities, e.g. fuel stations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's where the workers work - if you're so worried about the workers - women work there too. This bill is cynicism and hypocrisy, it is a nail to the coffin of Polish trade, and an eldorado for fuel stations, of which there are more than 2.5 thousand. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u282	Thank you very much. I would like the floor of Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall:...Polish children.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u283	Excuse me, may I speak? Excuse me. [[I know what I'm talking about.]] [[Voice from the room: You seem to be.]] Member, wait a minute. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I recall - these words are addressed to the President, then I was a member of the Social Policy Committee - that all these arguments actually sounded. There were dozens of exceptions back then. One of you said today: you're talking about the same thing. What are we supposed to talk about? This change today certainly makes us believe that we were right. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Of course we did. I would like to ask you the following question. Wouldn't it be easier - instead of scheming, Mr President, and so that we don't make changes again in a year, two years, three years - to make sure that the post offices work on Sundays? Why open some fake door in the form of post offices in stores? You want to help women? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Have the gas stations sell on Sundays. It's just fuel. After all, it is very simple, and above all, ladies and gentlemen - which may be difficult to imagine - this is how the world works. After all, Mr President - I'm sorry, I'm just gonna finish - remember perfectly well that we were talking about writing two Sundays in the code, about increasing the wages of people who want to work because there are people who want to work on Sundays. I know families where my dad wants to stay with his kid, and my wife wants to go to work and work because she wants to fix the budget. Weird? I'll surprise you even more: I know families who would like to spend time with their family at the store on Sunday or noon. Are they worse? No, maybe they have a different view of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u284	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Darius Rosati.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u285	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I am listening to this discussion, which unfortunately dominates, I must say, an ideological blur from both sides of the room, but actually I'm not quite sure that I will get the answer to the question of what is the difference between the shopkeepers that you are so looking for here, from, I don't know, receptionists in hotels. The gas stations were mentioned, waitresses in restaurants, nurses, etc. I'm also not entirely sure if you're really talking about the saleswoman and whether they're free on Sundays, or whether you're talking about the 30 million Poles who aren't supposed to go to the shops on Sundays. Unfortunately, I have for the initiators of this seal - indeed the seal shows the absurdity of all this legislation - the bad news: you will not simply seal it 100%. Poles will find ways to trade on Sundays (The Bell), and it will last as long as people want to buy in Frogs on the pretext of going to the post office. You can't just stop it. The sooner you understand it, the better it is for you, but above all, the better for Poles. Leave this choice to Poles, let them decide what they will do from Monday to Sunday and from morning to evening. You don't tell them what to do on Sundays. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u286	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank Janusz Śniadek and our members for this initiative, because today we are not discussing restricting trade on Sunday. We've passed it, and that bill is in effect. Today we are discussing clarification and amendments to this law. And the question we should ask ourselves is: Why are we doing this? Why are we sealing? Was it, as some say, a legal boob? Or not? Were there any other reasons why we were making such a change? I can tell you with all my responsibility that the employers have failed. They're not customers. whether the employees are avoiding this right. Here the employers failed because they are not using the gap in the law, as some say, but the situation, imposing certain solutions that are absolutely unacceptable, hence this attempt to seal. I'm going to go back to history because most of you worked on this bill. We created these exceptions, among others. to help small businesses in this area. There were no post offices in the original version of the bill. They appeared at a time when it came to the fact that in European law there is a provision that postal services should be open. And that's what we did, but no one thought there'd be dishonest action, that it would be avoided. Can you imagine that in other European countries some foreign network is introducing foreign institutions and parties in Parliament support these activities, as we hear here? This is ridiculous. [[Applause]] This is completely absurd. [[Who are you defending? Unfair defenses.]] Today we want to seal this right in such a way that this does not happen. Our ministry's position is clear, which is why we thank you. The question was: Why our resort? We were prepared for a change, but the pandemic stopped this work because there was a difficult situation when it came to trade, and we did not want to make these changes during this period. I will be honest: at that time, even before the pandemic, there were several meetings with a very wide group of trade representatives, employers' organisations and trade unions to find a thread of agreement to work out the best possible solutions, and that is why these other issues arise. Let me remind you that it was a civil project, not a government project. I thought there was an agreement that there would be such an agreement that the forces responsible for trade, trade unions and employers, would work together. It turned out after months that unfortunately not. Perhaps it is also as one Member said, that this is an attempt to eliminate small chains of shops from our country. As far as economic matters are concerned, the data you spoke of in the opposition concerning the decline in turnover, the closure of the networks, etc. have absolutely not been confirmed. Absolutely not. From these data from the report prepared by the Ministry of Development and Technology, it is absolutely clear that the opposite is true in this respect that the situation has improved. Yesterday, the Member was at a meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, former representatives of the Polish Chamber of Commerce, the Congregation for Trade, and there was evidently said and shown for examples, which during this period, even during the pandemic, was the relation of the fall of small traders and their rebirth. This is where we go on the plus side. More small shops come in than they fall. After all, this data was reported yesterday at a meeting of the Social Policy Committee and we take it very seriously. Also these movements, which you are talking about, that, by restricting trade on Sundays, shops have fallen, are absolutely untrue. Small or medium-sized stores fall through other activities, through the entry of discounting, other things. It's because of this yes, it's definitely in this area... Thank you very much to the Left for this vote, because of course we are talking about family matters, but also employees. I think it would be worth looking at - what unions are paying attention to, as well as an inspection of work in their reports - how in large networks or large wholesalers workers work. Even if we are discussing even increased penalties for non-compliance with labour rights, it is a powerful resistance. In other countries, these penalties are greater. We're calling for polls. After all, ladies and gentlemen, today we live in a different time. Most citizens want a free Saturday, Sunday, weekend, etc. [[And he wants to do some shopping, Minister.]] I don't want to, sir. Mr President, what are you saying here? Mr President, this is not the case. There's no such thing as people actually want to go... [[Let him do it on Saturday.]] Will you be able to speak to the Minister? Mrs April... [[You won't tell me when to shop.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: If we have a choice today, we have other attractions, then people choose, they go on trips. Various studies show that these offers are expanding. You will see that when the pandemic is over, there will be an even greater interest in culture or leisure, which is needed. If we ask you who wants to trade on Sunday, sitting behind the counter, I don't know if anyone would be so eager to sit and sell on Sunday. [[Mr Boris.]] You wouldn't. You see, yes, but it's Sunday free, that's how it is. The code says we have to have at least one Sunday every four weeks. If employers are so willing, they can give the second Sunday free, they can give the third Sunday free, they can give the fourth. It's in the code. At least one Sunday in four weeks can give. You have a strong translation into employers. Tell your employers to add more Sundays to your employees. [[Applause]] [[Then free up the trade.]] It's gonna be okay, and it's gonna be okay if you want two Sundays to be for the employees. Bring it in, it's a code possibility. So that everything is, just like I say, for sure, even if we had your request... Do not believe that this will change the situation of the workers. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And unfortunately, in our country all the time... Mr President, you have been a MEP, you know very well that we are still treated as cheap workers and we are fighting against it, and that is what the Government of Law and Justice is fighting against, so that we become normal workers, well paid, and not treated as cheap workers, and foreign networks treat us that way, and that is what we want to leave. [[The person at the register earns more than the Polish appointed teacher.]] I'm not here to argue with the O.R. My colleague Peter Boris, please allow the Minister to speak. [[Yeah, a little culture.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: So that, as I said, Poles want to have weekends off, they want to have Sundays off and, of course, if possible, they also ask questions about petrol stations and others. If we want to cut it down and shut down the gas stations, we'd all have to agree that we're filling up on Saturdays, we're not filling up on Sundays, but I don't think we're talking about closing it, and if we're selling gasoline, then we're selling something, too, so there's no bigger problem here, I think. Surely it is worth going in such a direction, that where we have the opportunity, let us limit the possibility of working on Sundays, because this Sunday is needed, the family needed, the trade of women, mothers, because they are the most there. Many people work because they have to, because they work in the service, because they also work in small services or in hotels, because that is also a requirement. Like I said, let's be glad that we have this bill because it gives us a chance to use it well. Let's seal this bill, and that's the purpose of this change. We're not talking about other changes. And we'll see. We hope that this sealing will help, which does not mean that no attempts will be made, because we can see from the example that this is the case in this respect. But yesterday's voice of the employers' representatives at the committee meeting was quite, I would say, interesting, conciliation. I hope - I said at the beginning that I was disappointed in a group of employers who skip the rules and try to use them - that here we will come to an agreement, because there is no other way than an agreement between those who manage shop units and those who represent employees, because this is the best way to work out the best possible solutions, because they will help all of us and at the same time fulfil the main condition that family, women, workers have Sundays free where possible. Thank you very much, sir, again for this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u288	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u289	Dear Marshal, Thank you very much. Minister! Colleagues of Parliamentaries! I am very pleased that there are MEPs in the Chamber, perhaps also future MEPs, and I would very much like this debate not to be held on the basis of this: we, you guys, if you do this, we will do that, because we are actually in the 21st century. And in this 21st century, I would like to ask if anyone in this room knows what happened on 28 November 1956. Probably not. Then, ladies and gentlemen, Western Germany introduced a law on the closure of shops - 1956. [[But they won't tell us in foreign languages what to do.]] I wish you wouldn't tell me what to say either, because I didn't bother you. Of course, there was a situation that, after 1956, most Western European countries began to introduce a law similar to the German law on the closing of shops. It was not just about workers' rights, it was about protecting the domestic market for individual countries. As a result, however, workers were also covered by the protection of workers' rights. Work on all holidays, on Saturdays and Sundays was left as a certain remnant of the block of eastern countries. She has established herself quite strongly at a later stage, unfortunately, I have to say with regret, also in the 21st century. I'm gonna say a few words about this in a minute. But first of all, I would like to refer to the fact that... Now we are talking about the 21st century, but I will return to 1980, the year loved also by our political adversaries. We all remember the August celebration of Solidarity, we in Silesia in a special way on September 3rd, when we are celebrating the anniversary celebration of Solidarity in Hawk in 1980. Well, the miners in Jastrzębie were those signatories who added one postulate to Gdansk's demands under the motto: Sunday of God and ours. [[Applause]] These are the only agreements you're going to read about the fact that the workers want Sunday off. I'll say two words now. Only to all of my friends from Solidarity who are watching us because they were commenting live. Remember, my dear friends, the free Sundays, the hawk agreements, and the implementation of this important request 38 years later. Remember, thanks to which we have managed to reduce trade to a significant extent on Sundays, because let us stress: this is not the law on closing shops, this is the law on restricting trade on Sundays. I'm so happy with our fellow Members from various benches... I also see friends there from those years. [[It's changed.]] You lay flowers under monuments, accept our slogans, humbly and with dignity you refer to the people of those years. I'm one of them, too. But with these demands, you have problems. Hypocritical? A delusion? Call it what you want. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1919, the reborn poor Polish state is setting up the first institution in Europe to protect the worker - the State Labour Inspection. England is the only one ahead of us. In 1919, the Polish poor country introduced the first standards of protection of working time for women and the ban on child labour in Europe. I read this story proudly. I would also like to read the history of my being in Parliament with pride. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: You have to read with understanding.]] Believe me, I have no doubt less difficulty understanding than you, Madam Member. [[Applause]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Well, I assure you...]] You're referring to the right to choose. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: And on October 28, you praised that Gomulka came to us.]] [[Voice from the room:...about the media.]] Can I do it now? You're referring to the right to choose. Yeah, I'm in favour of the right to choose. Ladies and gentlemen, we, with the employment of women, mostly women, but not at all trade workers, have no choice for them. They get a schedule, often on Friday afternoon, that next Sunday will be Sunday when they're supposed to work. That's what happened before. In exchange for this voluntary choice, what did you propose? [[Let's change that.]] Until 2015 minimum wage - PLN 1680 together with all allowances. Since 2022, this will be PLN 3010 excluding internship allowances. You didn't want to talk about the hourly rate until 2015, you didn't want to listen. Why? Because people worked for PLN 1.50 an hour... [[What PLN 1.50? What are you saying?]] ...and the masters - the Minister can confirm - were those who got less than a zloty. [[$1.50 an hour?]] [[We have a deal.]] In 2016, we introduced an hourly rate. We're successfully increasing it. Today it is PLN 18.30 and since the new year it will be PLN 19.70. And I stress: this is the minimum wage without internships. So that you don't stall, so that you don't think that I want to use absolutely all the time, I'll say yes. Your prescription: change your job, take credit, go abroad. And revolutionary changes in human protection in the working environment, with record wage increases, introduced by the United Right government now, are not only supposed to keep our employees in Poland, but we are also doing everything we can to encourage them to return to their homeland, to have a decent job here, a decent pay and to make them feel like protected workers in our country. It is very difficult to reconcile business interests and employers' interests. You'd say you can't. I've been a negotiator over and over again in collective disputes. I assure you, we can. We have very reasonable entrepreneurs, we have very reasonable and really highly educated trade union representatives and we can reach an agreement. Moreover, representatives of employers and entrepreneurs spoke about this agreement yesterday at the committee meeting. And I stress: this law is a restriction law, not a ban on trade. [[Exactly.]] [[Exactly.]] This law also provides - let me remind you only - for holidays and Sundays in which trade in all shops is acceptable. And we're not gonna change that. I am aware that you have such liberal tendencies. We found that out when you called us here from twats, and in the 250-thousandth anniversary we marched in Warsaw, saying that we did not agree to an extension of the retirement age. But the 21st century is not the time to make people work until they die... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...to make people work for miserable money... [[And Sundays.]] ...and, above all, give them an illusion of the so-called. choice, because this choice is not a choice. This choice would be coercive. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u290	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that in time... [[In corrigendum mode.]] But the Member was mentioned? [[Yes, I was.]] [[Voices from the hall: It wasn't.]] [[It wasn't exchanged.]] [[Voice from the room: It was replaced.]] [[I was.]] [[Voice from the room: His name didn't come up.]] [[I was. If you don't mind...]] [[Voice from the room: He was many times.]] [[Voice from the room: It wasn't.]] [[I've been mentioned many times.]] [[It's a transcript.]] [[I've been replaced.]] Excuse me. I understand that these cries, especially that of Mr Cymanski: the transcript must be treated as an invitation... [[Yes.]] ...for this 30-second correction. [[Mr Bożen Boris-Raccoon: But you have nothing to straighten out, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Questions were for me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u291	Corrigendum. Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister Boris-Raccoon referred to the Germans. And do you know what happened on March 15, 2015? [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Yes.]] You know, right? Viktor Orbán abolished the ban on trade on Sundays after a huge failure under the exact same arguments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: The Germans still have it today.]] [[Voice from the room: So?]] [[You Hungarians want to plead?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u292	Excuse me, just a minute. Can the fellow Members stop a discussion that should not be discussed in this way? [[Room voice: Bravo, Boris!]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Support from you.]] Can you at last make it possible for Mr Sniadek, too, to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u293	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! A few questions were asked to me as an applicant. I reach so far with my eyes and most of these people... Although you are Mr. Rosati, whom I wanted to answer. [[I didn't ask, but I can listen.]] But you were very critical of this situation, complaining about the lack of freedom, claiming that we are taking away people's freedom. Can you imagine being a world-famous shopper in Belgium, France, other countries on Sunday? [[In Germany.]] You didn't say the words you addressed to us in those societies. Why? [[...take an example, too.]] The question has been raised as to whether there are expert opinions that state that the law does not infringe European Union law. I declare that I have a great expertise of a serious professor from one of Warsaw's universities, in which he states that the law absolutely does not violate European law to any extent. In one place, however, it indicates that if we leave a gap... [[Yes.]] ...allowing unfair competition - it is about using the exception for post offices - then there may be a charge that this law does not guarantee fair competition. I didn't use that expertise because it's a very big bounce. Several times, the question was whether this bill would be sealed. I declare that it has been consulted with the State Labour Inspection and, to the greatest extent possible, we have tried to ensure that. There were accusations and questions, different numbers. Mr. Boris gave me a figure of 1.5,000, and it was 5,000, as well as a higher one. It's about the stores that were disappearing. I was interested in this phenomenon and worried much earlier. Already in the years 2018 and 2019 - I will tell you more about this organization - I asked the representatives of the merchants what it is. For years in Poland approx. 5 thousand disappear each year. Stores, facilities. At the same time, it appears as much. Simply rotation in this environment, in this industry is so big that many new shops disappear, and in their place other ones appear. In fact, some meaningful information may be an analysis of whether the number of facilities is increasing or decreasing. Any reference to the pandemic period, up to 2019 and 2020 and this year, is wrong. Let me put it this way, if someone seriously recalls the processes or phenomena occurring during this period, it is not fair. I'm saying this with full conviction. Now I'm gonna call the organization. The General Council of Trade and Services Associations is an organization or, let's say otherwise, a association bringing together - as they say themselves - about 20% of the Polish trade market. This chief council is the co-author of the citizens' initiative in relation to the previous law. That is why we have frequent contacts with them and thanks to them I have extensive knowledge of this subject. About a year after this law came into force, the chief council assessed the things that had happened. It turned out, as they said, that in many small shops the turnover increased by up to 80%. The Council awarded me a statuette, a prize: well-deserved for Polish trade. The effects of this law have been extremely positive over this incomplete year. In this study, which I referred to, some trends were identified, which show how well the changes served other industries, e.g. hotel industry, gastronomy, culture, cinemas. [[Culture.]] Let me put it this way, today, of course, there's no way to prove anything based on data from three years of pandemic. It wasn't the trade that got hurt the most, but it was those industries. To support them, to help them, sealing the bill is as deliberate and useful as possible. I wanted to invoke this as an additional argument in favour of the need for sealing. The principles of fair competition should apply in Poland. This bill doesn't force anyone to work, it creates some opportunities when it comes to opening small shops. All you have to do is meet one of the criteria that are given there. On the other hand, non-compliance with this law is simply a violation of the principles of fair competition, it is an act of dishonesty. Once again, on behalf of the applicants, I strongly urge you to vote in favour of this law. I would like to thank those of you who have declared their support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u294	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government draft law amending the Law - Aviation Law and the Law on Border Guard (prints No 1448 and No 1499). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u295	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Joint Commission: Administration and Home Affairs and Infrastructure to submit a report on the work on the government draft law amending the Law - Aviation Law and the Law on Border Guard, prints No 1448 and 1449. The regulation we are dealing with today is related to the application of the European Commission's implementing regulation from 31 December 2021. The Regulation is of November 2015 and concerns specific measures for the implementation of the common basic standards on aviation security and was amended by the Implementing Regulation on 23 January 2019. I will refer here to some general issues and make some comments on, in particular, the issues raised in the discussion on the project. Firstly, this amended regulation instead of the previous background check and pre-employment checks of persons performing certain activities in the air transport sector introduces a standard and extended background check. With regard to the change in Aviation Law, the project shall in particular specify the scope of the activities undertaken as part of a standard and extended background check, the categories of persons subject to such verification, the entities responsible for carrying out past checks and the frequency of such checks. If we refer to the whole regulation submitted by the government, it will result in its adoption and implementation into national law in order to adapt to the new European Union legislation, which is amended in order to harmonise and simplify aviation security measures, to improve the transparency of the law, to harmonise the interpretation of the rules and, above all, to ensure the most effective implementation of the common standards for civil aviation security for the European Union. With regard to these issues that have been addressed in the discussion during the work, I would first of all like to refer to the allegation that certain provisions of this regulation are not precise as regards the verification of past information from criminal records. I would like to point out that, in view of the fact that the subject-matter of the investigation is not able to obtain information from criminal records on the person to whom such verification is carried out, in the draft national legislation, i.e. the law which is the subject of today's proceedings, it has been decided that the verification in this respect is to be carried out on the basis of information obtained from the person checked, with no information being obtained from the National Criminal Register in the case of an extended background check, as in this respect the Border Guard is carried out within the framework of the findings of the existence of the so-called. negative indications. Secondly, there were questions in the committee on the extension of the catalogue of persons to be checked and the frequency of checks in the context of the regulatory burden of the checkers. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the draft identifies categories of persons subject to standard background checks, most of which are subject to a background check, also in line with existing legislation. In relation to the so-called. a standard background check of the minimum scope required by European Union legislation has been extended in the proposed regulation to persons employed at commercial or service points located in publicly accessible parts of aerodromes, or to persons performing obligations in that zone related to the operation of the aerodrome. This is due to the obvious need to strengthen the protection of public areas of airports which are particularly vulnerable to acts of unlawful interference. I do not need to explain the reasons behind the introduction of those provisions which clarify the procedures used so far on a European scale and not only. The new solution is to include an extended background check of the entire professional group of air traffic controllers, which results from the key role that controllers play in civil aviation and their access to key air traffic systems. In addition, the project, as I said at the beginning, provides for the implementation by the Border Guard of an IT system enabling operators to submit a request for verification of the existence of negative indications in electronic form through a dedicated application. According to this amendment, this will be implemented by the Border Guard. There were also so-called issues raised in the discussion. negative indications concerning these checks. With regard to this part of the law and this discussion in committee, I would like to remind you that the European Regulation gives Member States the freedom to determine the extent of the risks and offences to be guided by the assessment of the past of the person checked, but the two directives mentioned should be the minimum of that assessment. As regards the 2015 Regulation, as I said, at least the offences referred to in Annex II to that Directive on the use of Passenger Name Record data for the prevention of terrorist offences and in accordance with point 11 of the 2015 Regulation are considered not to have passed a positive background check if all elements of the verification have not been positively verified. The existence of such negative conditions shall be established not only if the person concerned is convicted by a final judgment for committing the offence listed in the catalogue set out in the Act, but also if the person concerned is informed of the criminal proceedings currently being conducted against that person, and where the Border Guard is not able to obtain information which is necessary for the determination, or if such information is insufficient, because in such a case the person concerned does not give assurance of reliability and consequently of the appropriate level of protection. The one-to-last issue I will briefly address is the lack of legislation that makes it possible to refer to the Border Guard's information on the existence of negative grounds. I stress that the information on the basis of which the Border Guard makes findings on the existence of negative grounds is, in principle, always objective and not discretionary - taking information about the conduct of, for example. the criminal proceedings against the person concerned, or even more so the conviction of such a person by a final sentence for crimes or the lack of sufficient information on the findings - therefore such an appeal would be pointless. In case of new circumstances, e.g. the termination of criminal proceedings or the failure of conviction, according to the draft, the verifying entity shall provide information justifying the lack of grounds for establishing the existence of negative grounds for the Border Guard and shall request a review. The financial impact of the Act in 2021-2030 is a total of 15 314 thousand, of which 9314 thousand. will be spent during the first 10 years of validity of the Act. These financial consequences relate to the costs of the Border Guard. Additional appropriations for the Border Guard are planned to be mobilised under the Internal Security Fund, which is governed by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014. On the other hand, part 39 of the State budget will be the source of funding for the planned expenditure of the Civil Aviation Authority for the planned increase in employment and job equipment for new workers: Transport. It shall be increased by the amounts contained in Article. 6 of the proposed bill. So much for me, Marshal. If there are questions, of course we will address them in the course of the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u296	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would therefore ask that Mr Jerzy Polaczek also speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u297	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I will try to shorten my speech on behalf of the parliamentary club. Of course, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports these regulations resulting from the need to implement European solutions and enhance the security of the whole civil aviation sector, its security, etc. I would like to add, by continuing my speech as rapporteur, which took place just a moment ago, that, first, by adapting the Polish legal system to the said provisions, the draft law provides, as stated in the title, for the amendment of both the Aviation Law and the Border Guard Act. With regard to the amendment of the Act - Aviation law, the project in particular defines the scope of the activities undertaken in the framework of a standard and extended review of the past and the categories of persons subject to such verification. Here I would like to point out that the catalogue of persons subject to a standard background check lists most of the categories of persons who have been subject to such verification under the previous provisions. The minimum scope required by Union rules is extended in this regulation to persons employed at commercial and service points located in or performing in the area of a public airport. As I mentioned a moment ago, this is due to the need to specifically strengthen the protection of public airport areas which are exposed to acts of unlawful interference. In addition, some tragic examples have been provided in recent years. Another point: as regards the categories of persons subject to an extended background check, a new solution is also to include the entire professional group of air traffic controllers. I was also talking about it just now. It is also about what I have developed in my speech as rapporteur. I would also like to remind you that the project provides for a new way and mode for the Border Guard to determine the existence of so-called. negative reasons preventing a positive outcome of the background check and consequently the performance of certain activities in civil aviation. The Act defines the so-called. a new negative list of conditions taking into account the requirements set out in this European regulation, to which this amendment of the Law - Aviation Law and the Law on Border Guard refers. Part of the regulated regulation extends the competence of the Border Guard in relation to these tasks assigned to this formation in this law. I also mentioned the expenditure related to the implementation of this in the Polish legal system earlier as rapporteur. In general, the project responds to the needs arising from the need to ensure better protection of aviation infrastructure, ensuring a better level of safety. Such rules are also transposed into other national arrangements in the European Union. Today we deal with this in the Polish Sejm. In summary, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the government project and does not bring any new amendments after the discussion at its meeting on 14 September. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u298	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition will be presented by Maciej Lasek. [[Civic coalition, marshal.]] I'm sorry, I didn't mean anything by it. The Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u299	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The draft envisages amending the provisions of the Law - Aviation Law and the Border Guard Act by introducing new standard and extended checks on the past and checks against employment of persons performing civil aviation security tasks in order to ensure the application of Regulation 2015/1998 as amended by Commission Implementing Regulation 2019/103 of 23 January 2019. As has already been said here, the proposal contains regulations on the scope of activities undertaken in the framework of the standard background check, the category of persons to be checked, the bodies responsible for carrying out the checks and the frequency of checks. In addition, the consequences of the negative outcome of the background check have been identified. So far, a background check has been repeated at least every five years. These deadlines are now reduced to 3 years in case of standard verification and up to 1 year or constant monitoring in case of extended background verification. The new solution is to include the system of checking the past, among others. all flight controllers, air traffic. The project also identifies cases where negative grounds for civil aviation security may be identified. The existence of negative grounds shall be established in the event of a threat to the defence or security of the State and public order or of a criminal proceeding currently under way against a person or conviction by a final judgment of that person. However, a detailed analysis of the proposed provisions raises some doubts. The scope of the background check shall include obtaining information from criminal records from all countries of residence from the last 5 years. The experience gained from many years of operation of this provision points to difficulties in the practical implementation of this obligation. Given that different types of criminal records exist in different countries, which are often inconsistent, airport manager or other economic operator obliged to carry out a standard background check, there is often no physical possibility of verifying documents submitted by a person recruited from other countries. These documents are subject to a free assessment of the entities and may lead to erroneous conclusions from the background check of the person concerned. In the proposed legislation, the catalogue of offences considered to be criminal offences resulting in negative conditions has also been substantially extended to the current law - Aviation Law. The catalogue of crimes affecting the process of checking the past has been included e.g. crimes against the environment, crimes against the family and care, crimes against the property. The catalogue of offences adopted goes far beyond the recommendations of the Article. 5 of the Council Framework Decision of 13 June 2002 on combating terrorism, as set out in Article 5 of the Council Framework Decision of 13 June 2002 on combating terrorism. 1 sets out the minimum catalogue of terrorist offences. The catalogue of offences adopted in the proposed legislation also goes beyond the list of terrorist offences as defined in Directive 2017/541 of the European Parliament and of the Council. It should also be noted that a significant increase in the group of persons to be checked and the frequency of past checks may not only have a negative impact on the verification system but also have a significant impact on the continuity of the entities obliged to carry out an extended background check, e.g. managing airports, registered agents or the Air Navigation Agency. The legislator also recognises the very fact that the Border Guard has taken notice of ongoing criminal proceedings against a person as an indication of the negative outcome of the extended review of the past, and the consequence is the inability of the person to perform the functions or tasks to which he or she was or was to be employed, which in turn has significant consequences in the field of labour law. At the same time, the legislator does not provide for the participation of the person to whom an extended background check is being carried out throughout the process of this verification. This, ladies and gentlemen, violates a number of rights and freedoms of a person. Such a solution in stress situations may result in a refusal to hire a person after false notification of the possibility of committing a crime. There is also great doubt about the provision: where it is not possible to obtain the information necessary to establish the existence of negative indications. This is done by the Border Guard. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The checker should not bear the negative consequences of the service failure. Mr. Marshal, may I extend a moment more? Thank you very much. The fact that Polish services cannot verify a person for reasons we do not know about should not automatically lead to a negative decision for the person being checked. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Increasing aviation security in particular against terrorist threats is one of the main priorities in air transport. We all agree here. This is reflected in the legislation of the European Union as well as in this project. However, the proposed law shows a imbalance between the powers of the citizen and air business entities and administrative bodies such as the Border Guard and the President of the Aviation Authority. Such establishment of a relationship between the entity and the administrative authority indicates the dominant position of the State and disregarding the rights of other entities. In this context Allow me to appeal to Minister Horala, Minister of Infrastructure. Implementation into Polish law of EU legislation does not exempt from the creation of good law. Remember that. As the Civic Coalition, we will of course support the proposed project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u300	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Rafał Adamczyk to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft Print Act No 1448 amending the Law - Aviation Law and the Border Guard Act of 2 August 2021 was submitted to the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission and the High House more than 2 years after the publication of the implementing regulation of the European Union Commission of 23 January 2019. In view of the above, it was necessary to amend the provisions of the Law - Aviation Law and the Law on Border Guard. Unfortunately, when you look at all the legislative terms, you have the impression that in this case we are doing something again at the last minute. The deadline is the entry into force of the Union Regulation, i.e. On 31 December 2021, i.e. in a few months. As part of the changes made to the legislation, a new solution is emerging to include all air traffic controllers in the system of background checks. This is due to the key role played by civil aviation controllers and their access to key air traffic systems. [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, sir. Can the gentlemen on the left and with the law stop talking on the phone? This isn't a phone caller. We're interrupting a colleague. In the current legal state, only air traffic controllers who, in connection with their duties, hold temporary airport identification cards shall be subject to a background check. On the other hand, the proposed regulation provides for an extended background check of the entire professional group. So far, a background check has been repeated at least every five years. Those deadlines shall be reduced to 3 years in the case of standard verification and to 1 year or permanent monitoring in the case of an extended background check, in accordance with the provisions of the amended Regulation. In the event of an extended review of the past, the Regulation gives Member States the freedom to determine the extent of the risks and offences to be addressed in assessing the past of the person checked. Therefore, other offences related to the catalogue of offences recognised as serious crime in the European Union have also been included in the proposed solutions. The provisions of the bill significantly increase the responsibilities of the Border Guard. Under the legislative procedure, the draft law was consulted publicly in accordance with the procedure laid down in Resolution 190 of the Council of Ministers of 29 October 2013. And so: the public consultation lasted 14 days, and for represented trade union organisations and employees - 21. The information available to the project was provided to 113 entities. In the course of the consultation, comments to the project were submitted, inter alia. entities such as: Polish Air Navigation Agency, Port Lotniczy Gdańsk sp. z o.o., Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA, Port Lotniczy Łódź sp. z o.o., Bydgoszcz Airport SA, Ryanair Sun SA. According to a summary of 35 comments submitted by the entities mentioned above, one comment submitted by the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection was not taken into account, 23 comments, several were only partially taken into account. From the point of view of the safety of civil air traffic, this is a very important bill which should ensure the highest level of safety for travelers and we all know it very well. The draft law also has financial implications for the development and modernisation of information systems, which amount to about PLN 15 million. However, it is worrying that in the government project the costs of upgrading these systems were only planned in 2021, 2026 and 2031. At this point, the question arises: How will the Border Guard spend all the funds planned for 2021 in accordance with the applicable rules of law within a few weeks of the adoption of the law? Let us remember and let us not forget that the safety of all travelers is very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u302	Thank you very much, sir. Position... [[Mr. Marshal, a little more.]] Oh, still, I get it. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To date, the past check mode, which was 30 days, has already significantly hindered airport security management activities. All the more so that it is indicated directly in the provisions of this Act that until information on the absence of adverse conditions is obtained, the person covered by the request for verification cannot begin to carry out the tasks. It is all the more surprising that the project's records extend this time to up to 60 days. It's a matter of time for the Border Guard to process the application. This may result in human paralysis (Bell) in a given subject in the event of such special circumstances. Once again, I kindly ask the government party to examine these requests, which have been addressed, inter alia. by the Bydgoszcz Airport, because that's what I'm building my opinion on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u304	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Urszula Nowogórska will now present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the coalition club Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present the position of our club in relation to the government draft law amending the law - Aviation law and the law on Border Guard, Parliamentary printing No 1448. As it sounds in the title of the Act, it is true that this project concerns both civil aviation security and the scope of the Border Guard's work. Speaking at all in my speech on safety, I mean not only the hierarchy of needs according to Maslow, but operational security in civil aviation called safety, which clearly separates itself from security, i.e. security. The first focuses on non-intentional threats and the second - intentional threats, such as acts of unfounded and unlawful interference, e.g. acts of terrorism. This division is very important as it affects the means and instruments for reducing risks for these two groups, as well as the responsibilities of the various aviation organisations in this regard. Security policy, risk management and presumption of non-trust are part of a draft law which basically adapts Polish law to European Union legislation and introduces basic standards of civil aviation security defined at European level. All these activities are among others. the result of terrorist attacks at airports, including in Istanbul, Brussels and Burgas. High Izbo! In 2021 terrorism and other threats to civil aviation are a multidimensional and dynamic phenomenon, as terrorism is transformed and rapidly evolving. Psychology of threats, particularly terrorist threats, says that the firmness of terrorists and the lack of respect for their lives make the fight against these attacks and these terrorist events very difficult and a very serious problem. Therefore, the current fight against international terrorism is a fight to eliminate the effects, not their causes. This is why actions which in the draft law extend the catalogue of crimes and indicate the scope of activities undertaken within the framework of a standard and extended background check of persons working at civil airports. This applies to the categories of persons subject to a background check and the entities responsible for carrying out the checks and their frequency. New categories of persons subject to a background check appear in the draft law. These include persons employed at commercial points located in a public airport area, persons performing their duties related to the operation of aviation, and air traffic controllers whose work is related to access to air traffic systems. Controllers with temporary identification cards are now checked, and after the change the entire professional group will be covered and the whole professional group will be subject to scrutiny. The whole verification system, in addition to standard elements, will include obtaining information on the existence of negative grounds for civil aviation security. All of these actions will probably extend the time for checking, but it seems that, in the face of new threats, the strategy proposed in the draft law seems reasonable, especially since awareness of the existence of risks, their identification and minimization of the likelihood of them being present are key actions. A number of questions were also asked at the committee meeting, including: on the manner in which the financial tasks related to the purchase of information systems verifying data in relation to the Border Guard are carried out. I understand that, due to the delays and obstacles that have arisen in the implementation of this law, these explanations have been made logically. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! After examining this bill, I will recommend voting for this bill to my club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u306	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj will present the position of the Confederation's circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u307	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This submission is an implementation of EU law. As such from the vending machine we do not arouse our great enthusiasm, but the aim of the project, which is to increase safety in air traffic, in civil air traffic, is considered to be the right direction, beneficial. The way is to increase the requirements for the conditions of control of civil workers working precisely in the field of security and control at airports. In particular, the Act provides for an extension of the catalogue of indications which prevent the taking up of work in certain professions, inter alia. with security control at airports for virtually all offences, provided that the offence has been committed intentionally and the upper limit of the statutory threat of imprisonment for that offence is at least 3 years. The obligation to control employees more frequently for negative reasons has been introduced. The background check has been expanded. It is to be held every year and a standard report of the past - every 3 years. Penalties have been imposed for non-compliance with the obligation to monitor employees regularly for non-compliance with these negative conditions of up to 2 000. Up to 20,000. This penalty will be imposed by the Border Guard Commandant responsible for the location of the airport. In accordance with the provisions of this Law, by 30 October 2021, the Chief Border Guard will also create an application to control it electronically. The Polish Air Navigation Agency and the President of the Civil Aviation Office will have access to this application. Two qualities should be appreciated in this regulation. Firstly, the preventive dimension of reducing employment and increasing control of employees, which will translate into higher awareness and probably less crime in the case of people who are thinking of a career in this area, as well as what has already fallen from the speaker, will increase resistance to ideological and state terror acts, because people with criminal backgrounds are more vulnerable to corruption, blackmail, etc. On the other hand, it is regrettable that the European Union is coming up with such a good project. The question is whether the Government of Law and Justice, the PiS government, will come to what MON workers have announced, which means that it will collect all security laws into one code of defence, will codify the defence law. It's a challenge, but it's very necessary. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u308	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Mirosław Suchon to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u309	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the governmental bill amending the Act - Aviation Law and the Law on Border Guard. High Izbo! This draft law is a transposition into the Polish legal system of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/103 amending Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/1998 as regards clarification, harmonisation and simplification, as well as strengthening certain specific aviation security measures. Those provisions shall apply from 31 December. That Regulation has made significant changes to the provisions of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) laying down detailed measures for the implementation of the common basic standards on civil aviation security concerning the verification of the past of persons carrying out civil aviation security tasks. In order to bring Polish legislation into line with the new rules of European Union law and ensure that this regulation is applied, amendments should be made, as proposed, to the Law - Aviation Law and to the Law on Border Guard. That's what's in the draft law presented by the government. The changes envisaged by the government project can be distinguished among others. introducing, instead of existing institutions, background checks and pre-employment checks, standard and extended background checks. In addition, the provisions provide for the categories of persons subject to an extended background check and the categories of persons for which the background check selected by the Member State applies. In addition, criteria have been identified according to which the outcome of the background check as well as its minimum frequency is determined. In view of the need to ensure safety in air transport, changes to strengthen the procedures for the verification of personnel should be assessed as moving in the desired direction. I think we all agree that by getting on a plane, traveling around the world, we expect this safety to be at the highest possible level. These provisions are also intended to ensure this. However, it should be borne in mind that unrealistic procedures may have a counterproductive effect. Such a risk, such as alerting the community of specialists, may entail a procedure for obtaining confirmation of being an unpunished person in all the countries in which the person previously worked. In addition, there are doubts as to the extent of criminal grounds for disqualifying the candidate. And here I want to address the government: we express this necessity. The Ministry looked at these solutions in detail (The Bell) and we hope that it will present other solutions if necessary. Better, better reflecting this reality. Nevertheless, the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. We have nine people who signed up for the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join this group again? If not, I close the list by setting the time to ask a question - 1 minute. Mr Mirosław Suchon, please. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, there is no doubt that this regulation should be implemented and these procedures must be applied. As I said in my speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, we all look forward to an adequate level of security. On the other hand, I have a question related to the costs and nuisance of the procedure of checking for those who apply for these powers. Did the Ministry analyze this scope in terms of costs, nuisance? How will this possibly be carried out so that the burden and costs are not too great, to put it simply, for the market? Today air transport also needs such, I would say, a very calm approach to raising costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u310	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u311	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have read with great hope the first point of the draft law, in which we see a record of an extended obligation to examine the past of applicants to carry out their oversight and control obligations in the field of aviation security. I have this question to the Minister: Will a new special team be set up to carry out this check, or will these duties rest on the services to date? And second question: What will be the costs of this check, and who will ultimately bear these costs? If I could get a written reply on this, I would be very obliged to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u312	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Mr Zdzisław Wolski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have another example of a law which is the implementation of EU law, the implementation of EU law. The case, as we've heard, doesn't really raise any questions. Even a representative of the Confederation supports this project because it is also important - the issue of civil aviation security, extending and checking the past of the control operator before obtaining a certificate or, in particular, persons having access to restricted parts of the airport. This is a question of safety for all those who use air traffic. I have a question because we're dealing with some manners here. There have been many acts resulting from very convenient decisions by the European Union concerning e.g. business activity (The Bell) and we have such a habit that we wait, wait for the situation to get nervous. We've had a good two and a half years to adopt this bill. Why is this happening so late? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u314	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Maciej Lasek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u315	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! We all agree that this law will improve security in civil aviation. At the same time, however, this law extends the catalogue of groups of employees which will be subject to review and, at the same time, the draft does not provide for an appeal or a participation in proceedings to check the past of persons subject to such proceedings, which may restrict their rights. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether there is a provision in the EU regulation implemented in Polish law which explicitly deprives the persons subject to review of the right to participate in such proceedings and the right to appeal against the decision. After all, there may be cases where misdefinition may occur. In this respect, it would also be appropriate to take into account the rights of persons to appeal in this respect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause it's absolutely not gonna affect the reduction in civil aviation security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u316	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mrs Krzywonos-Strycharska to ask her question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A reporting obligation shall be imposed on the amended act. This provision is over-involved by aviation operators. Why, then, are sanctions so severe in this regard? As far as checking the past is concerned, there are many negative reasons, since the person concerned cannot appeal against the outcome of the proceedings, which violates a number of rights and freedoms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u318	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! New categories of persons working at civil airports are introduced in the bill, where they will be checked in the past. Among other things, there is one thing that goes on here. all air traffic controllers and persons employed at commercial and service points in those ports. Thus, the number of reports drawn up by the Border Guard will increase significantly. Taking into account the multitude of subjects listed above. the procedures will concern, there is a concern that the effectiveness of the control services will be compromised, especially if the simultaneous reduction of staff resources due to cuts is taken into account. I therefore ask you to answer the questions: Are there any plans to increase the employment of the Border Guard? Is there an increase in the budget of this service due to additional tasks? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u320	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We know that the bill is prepared at the last minute and must ensure the safety of travelers in civil transport. Please answer the question: Will the revised date of entry into force of part of this law for November be respected as regards the legislative process and the implementation of the successive stages of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u322	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul closes the list of Members to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u323	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This topic is important and important because it is the safety of passengers carried. Minister! Why more than 60% was not included in the draft law comments submitted to the bill by companies and air transport institutions? It's about safety, which should be the most important. It should be our goal to make travelers feel safe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u324	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Marcin Horała, will answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking you for the very substantive and relevant voices in this discussion. Several issues, doubts or issues raised in the discussion and in the questions that have been raised here, I would like to clarify. The first issue that emerged is the possible difficulty of checking criminal records from other countries where the person was staying in those other countries. I wanted to point out that this isn't about staying, this is the notion of living in a foreign country. It's not about a holiday visit or any other short trip. In the overwhelming majority of cases that we can imagine, it will probably be a stay in European countries where there is no such problem, where there is rapid direct cooperation between services. On the other hand, in extremely rare cases, if someone has actually lived in more exotic countries for a long time in the last 5 years - imagine that someone, for example. he was in Syria or Libya - we would like to see more insight into him. In general, I think that in this one statement I will be able to answer a whole range of doubts raised here - I think that these doubts arise from a certain mental calculator, according to which this procedure and the verification of credibility is treated as a type of quasi-court procedure, and the absence of such an attestation is a kind of criminal measure. That is not the case. Therefore, issues concerning the burden of proof, issues concerning remedies do not exist here. Here we are dealing with a completely different logic. Here is the burden of proof that someone is actually credible that there is no objection to him, on that person, so to speak, pregnant. There is no obligation, it is not a universal human right to work at the airport and enter the security restricted areas at the airport every day. There are really a whole range of other sectors of the economy where you can easily pursue your professional ambitions. After all, already in many branches and in many professions, much more than the occupation of an airport worker, it is necessary to present e.g. certificates of non-criminality or other such requirements. If we're gonna look for an analogy here, it's like... in the proceedings concerning access to classified information also justified doubts, the lack of explanation of any circumstances concerning the examination of a person, i.e. this burden of evidence is reversed, may result in the lack of access to classified information, and in turn there are such professions, there are jobs where, without access to classified information, it is impossible to work, but we consider that they are so specific, so sensitive that we apply such a procedure. The same is true of people who are currently working at airports, i.e. critical infrastructure facilities, where there is an increased terrorist threat. The European legislator recognized, and we make reception of these provisions to Polish law, that these people require an elevated level of trust. There's enough serious, legitimate doubt here. There is no need to prove, it is not necessary to ensure that a person is involved e.g. for some terrorist action, but it's enough to justify a serious doubt not to give such a person a certificate. Hence, for example. This wide range of crimes, not only terrorist crimes, but any serious crimes, because people who have committed serious crimes in the past may have links with organized criminal groups or criminal environments, be influenced by them, be under their pressure, may be subject to, for example. Blackmailers may not want their past to be exposed, and someone can come to them and for example. I know what you've done, and like this package I'm giving you here, you're not gonna take it to the airport, and I'm gonna tell you all about it. These people are just more vulnerable to this kind of action, so we wouldn't want them to work in these sensitive, critical places and have regular, daily access to them. Hence also the issue of remedies. It's not like there's no appeal procedure. It is written that, in the event of information about the new circumstances of the case, i.e. if someone feels that he has been wronged by such conduct, because some important, important circumstances for him have not been taken into account in the proceedings, the authority may report such a fact to the authority. If this is indeed a new circumstance, this will be repeated. Several votes were about the fact that this was supposed to be the last minute. Let's not overreact. These provisions are so defined at European level that they enter into force from 1 January 2022. For the last few months actually, preparations for their implementation are underway, carried out in parallel with the work on these provisions, so it is not so that only after they have been adopted e.g. Border Guard's gonna start doing this, preparing it, preparing it. No, it's already happening. The Border Guard is as ready as possible to carry out these new duties. A slight shift to November 15th of one of the duties. I'm already answering another question here. Yes, that is why we have made such an amendment with our approval that the original deadline of 31 October has just caused the risk that, with the maximum use of all constitutional terms by the subsequent authorities of the legislative process, this law will not be implemented earlier. On November 15th, there is no such danger. As regards costs and nuisances, the costs for people - Mr Suchoń asked - there will be no such costs, i.e. on the part of the person to be checked, there are no charges to be paid in order to be subject to such checks. So those costs won't be there. As far as nuisance is concerned, probably more for entities that operate an airport activity and would like to hire an employee, I understand that there may be a nuisance in that, for example. They won't be able to hire him right away, but they'll just have to wait for that check. Perhaps this is a nuisance, and it already exists, only to a lesser extent. On the other hand, we are trying to ensure that there are no particular delays in the extended range of persons and the directory of cases to be checked. Hence, among others. introducing a form of electronic conduct, a digital form, thus introducing a mechanism of ex officio initiation, i.e. automatically, renewal or extension of a previously issued certificate. We are convinced that these solutions will cause some particular nuisances or delays. And the question was, what would be the cost, first of all, whether any of them would be called? a new institution. No, this procedure will be handled by the Border Guard. And what are the costs? We estimate such additional costs on the Border Guard side for a little over 9 million. These are primarily the costs of purchasing the installation, adjusting the IT system. The Border Guard plans to raise these funds from European funds. On the other hand, on the side of the Civil Aviation Office, these are cumulative costs of 2 million PLN, slightly over 200 thousand PLN. PLN per year. These costs will be borne by the state budget. Mrs Krzywonos-Strycharska asked why such severe sanctions were being imposed. It is already a question of whether sanctions are severe or not, but some sanctions against those who have not fulfilled these obligations must, of course, be introduced so that this obligation is not fiction. They must at least be felt that operators operating at airports do not ignore this obligation so that there is no such situation that, despite the lack of such a statement of assurance, the employee is allowed to perform his duties, he is admitted to these restricted areas. It is, of course, reprehensible, such situations have no right to take place, and in order not to do so, it is for failing to fulfil this obligation that some fairly serious sanction simply must be. And last question: Why 60% the comments were not taken into account? I think we'd have to comment on the substance of the matter by now. Statistics here may fail, and I do not know what is the average level of taking into account or not taking into account comments from the public consultation - depends on how to count them - so here I would no longer be subject to the magic of digits. Moreover, it is very often the case that the comments made in the public consultation by the various parties are against each other, so sometimes taking into account one comment automatically makes it impossible to take into account any other comment or a whole package of comments. If I've already gotten involved in these distortions, then I'd say that's more like a level of attention above 50%. It would be a surprise, and 40% These comments are rather a very high factor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u326	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jerzy Polaczek, will also speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u327	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will briefly make a few comments on the main points that have been raised both in some speeches and in the questions asked by the Minister. But first of all, I will start by thanking the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Aviation Department for a very competent, professional and, I think, precise bill transposing these European solutions, serving all of us as passengers, serving airport management authorities, primarily serving all those who are dealing with professionally or incidentally with civil aviation. It is also worth thanking all clubs and parliamentary circles for their support for this government project, which has been declared today. I think that - it is worth noticing - this security issue in the civil aviation sector is seen by all colleagues. There is one additional comment here on my part relating to these votes, especially in the questions which were related to the repetition of arguments related to the lack of regulation, which makes it impossible to refer to the information of the Border Guard, about the existence of negative indications. In my speech as rapporteur, I have just stressed that the information on the basis of which the Border Guard determines the existence of such negative conditions is always simply the reasons or grounds in principle objective and not discretionary. Here information such as criminal proceedings, a sentence against a person, is objective information. They, from the point of view of this European regulation, make it impossible to obtain a positive examination of the past of this person, or at any time, if there are doubts. They prevent this and do not provide sufficient assurance as to the reliability of the person concerned. These regulations are contained in particular in the European Commission Implementing Regulation of 5 November 2015 laying down specific measures for the implementation of the common basic standards on aviation security, i.e. in the Regulation of January 2019 amending that Implementing Regulation of the European Commission. To sum up, I would like to thank the Ministry and all the clubs and Circles for a very concrete, factual and substantive discussion on this project and for the declaration of support for this government bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u328	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage, drawn up at Strasbourg on 8 November 2001 (prints Nos 1444 and 1491). I ask Mrs Joanna Lichocka to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage, drawn up at Strasbourg on 8 November 2001, print No 1444. On 29 July 2021, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media and to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading. The committees, following their first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 10 August 2021, shall request the Sejm to adopt this draft law without amendments. It's a soon-to-be bill. The work was done in accordance, it went through without any amendments, so I recommend that the High House accept this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u330	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Sławomir Skwark, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage, drawn up at Strasbourg on 8 November 2001. This Convention is another instrument in addition to the Convention for the Protection of the Architecture Heritage and the Convention for the Protection of the Archaeological Heritage, aimed at creating certain harmonised solutions in European countries. National heritage, which the Republic of Poland is obliged to protect by virtue of art. Five constitutions, our constitutions, are extremely valuable. At present, we also understand audiovisual heritage. The purpose of the Convention is to harmonise standards for the transmission and storage of audiovisual works. The technological progress that we are witnessing on a daily basis will, as a rule, force the introduction of new legal solutions. In the Polish system, of course, we already have the relevant legal acts, such as the law on copyright and related rights. However, there is no doubt that amendments will be necessary in this regard. For in the future we will be faced with a completely different reality, probably one that we cannot imagine at this moment. Today, on the other hand, we want to be involved in the process of creating solutions to ensure consistency in legislation on the collection, protection and dissemination of film collections. All Member States of the European Union already have systems for collecting, preserving cinematographic works, which form part of their audiovisual heritage. In analysing the Convention, it can be concluded that both Polish legal acts and the practice of the functioning of cultural institutions meet European standards, hence there is no need to change the current regulations in Poland at the moment. In conclusion, the Republic of Poland should be involved in such activities of the Council of Europe in order to jointly build and implement solutions for e.g. protection of the Polish national heritage. Poland's commitment to the convention will have a positive impact on our international relations and will support the Polish audiovisual sector. These two very short articles of the bill, I hope, will not raise controversy in the Polish Chamber, and the Senate will not demonstrate creativity and will not be tempted to add even a recital. In view of the above, I inform the High House that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u332	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Piotr Adamowicz to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u333	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I present my position on the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage, drawn up at Strasbourg on 8 November 2001, print No 1444. I would remind you that the Sejm, when adopting the law, agrees to the ratification of this convention by the President of the Republic of Poland. The European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage, drawn up in 2001, entered into force on 1 January 2008. Poland only signed the Convention 12 years after its entry into force in December Ub. However, it is important that, despite some delay, our national rules on the protection of audiovisual heritage are in line with European standards and to some extent even higher. The basic obligations imposed by the Convention are the introduction of a statutory obligation to collect and store cinematographic works produced in the territory of the country concerned and the identification of an institution acting as a national archive. In Poland, such a function is already performed by the National Film Library - Audiovisual Institute, hereinafter referred to as FINA. Moreover, while the convention indicates that the film producer should transmit the material within 12 months of the premiere, the Polish regulation indicates 30 days after the end of production, but no later than the day of the start of the distribution of the film. It should be stressed that neither European regulation nor national regulations allow the FINA to distribute audiovisual works commercially. The rights of creators in this area are guaranteed by the law on copyright and related rights. Ratification of the convention does not result in the need to change the provisions of Polish law, nor does it have financial implications for the budget of the state and local governments. The formal binding of the Polish Convention complements accepted international agreements. In conclusion and in relation to the current situation, I would like to refer to the recitals of the 2001 Convention. They are very important, they say: the aim of the Council of Europe is to achieve greater unity between its members, in particular in order to protect and implement the ideals and principles that constitute their common heritage, and the heritage of Europe reflects the identity and cultural diversity of its peoples. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I declare my vote in favour of the adoption by the Sejm of the Act on the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u334	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Jarosław Rzepa to speak and to present the position of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u335	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! As my previous speaker has already said here, the work on this bill was carried out in committee very much in agreement. We are dealing, ladies and gentlemen, with the examination of the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage of 8 November 2001, Parliamentary Printing Nos 1444 and 1491. Our club welcomes the fact that we are among the 20 countries that are already signatories to this agreement today. I hope we will be the 12th parliament to ratify this agreement. The Convention harmonises standards for the storage and transmission of audiovisual works, including cinematographic works. We also welcome the fact that this is another agreement that our Parliament is ratifying within the European Community. We're very happy about that. In the explanatory memorandum of this law, ladies and gentlemen, we also find that the adoption of the Convention will not have any financial consequences. I would also like to allow you, as a question to the Minister, to clarify in one question the question of these effects when it comes to archiving, but that will be in a moment. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the coalition club Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives I am telling you that our club will vote for this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u336	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mr Krystian Kaminski to present the position of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The ratified European Convention on the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage, which we are discussing, does not require us to change the laws in force in Poland. Records of this agreement have already been implemented in Poland, as have in many European countries. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the examination of the provisions of the Convention itself leads to the conclusion that the local regulations in this area, as well as the functioning of cultural institutions, are in line with European standards. The primary obligation imposed by the Convention on the signatory parties is to introduce a statutory obligation to collect and store cinematographic works produced in the territory of a State Party to the Convention. Our regulations have been regulating this for a long time and are being respected. It can therefore be said that the signing of this convention is a pure formality, practically nothing changes. However, when I read the justification, I drew attention to one very interesting sentence: the Convention will have a positive impact on the Polish audiovisual sector. It doesn't seem that our cinematography represents the highest level. It would be difficult to mention films of domestic production that have been made in recent years and have been outstanding or at a very high level, not to mention historical cinematography. Unfortunately, there were no superproductions about Witold Pilecki, about the enchanted soldiers, about the Świętokrzyskie National Armed Forces Brigade, which saved prisoners from the German concentration camp in Holishów in the Czech Republic. So if the implementation of this convention improves the situation of our cinematography and in the coming years we can expect good production and if the implementation of this convention is enough to improve our cinematography, then I admire the optimism of the rulers and people who described this printing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u338	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Zimoch will speak, who will present the position of the Poles 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u339	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Art. The 5th Constitution states that the Republic protects the national heritage. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 is written that it creates conditions for dissemination and equal access to cultural objects. Protection of national heritage is an obligation all of us, not just state authorities or local government. The first document in the international arena, which presents the concept of cultural heritage, was the Convention on the creation of the United Nations for Education, Science and Culture. This is a 1945 document that recommended the adoption of further international agreements to protect cultural heritage. And this has been the case over the years, there have been agreements concerning specific types of heritage. For example, conventions on architectural or archaeological heritage were adopted. Let me remind you that 11 months ago, the Sejm ratified the Convention for the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage by law. Audiovisual heritage and the need to protect it through the Council of Europe is defined by the Convention of 8 November 2001. It says, among other things, that audiovisual heritage is a form of art and a record of the past. Therefore, the Convention requires the collection and proper storage of cinematographic works and introduces an obligation to identify the institution concerned. We already have such an institution: National Film Library - Audiovisual Institute. The important thing is that Polish regulations are even further moving. For example, the Convention requires that a cinematographic work be handed over within a year from the premiere, and in Poland it is 30 days from the end of production. The print number containing this bill is very easy to remember: 1444 - the battle at Varna. But there shouldn't even be preparations in the Seym for a verbal war about whether to be for or against this bill. I believe that we will all accept it unanimously. The ratification of the 2001 European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage is very desirable, and in my opinion and in the opinion of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 even necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u340	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Senyszyn has already reached us, who I invite you to make a statement on behalf of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the 2001 Convention and its ratification, I must state that it is one of the few draft laws presented by the Government of PiS or the United Right, which would be difficult to have any reservations about. In the flood of fatal billings reported at the last minute, accepted by the Sejm often at night, this particular project is distinguished by its reasonableness and reliability. As the government has written in relation to its project, this convention is right both in its entirety and in each of its provisions separately. It should therefore be accepted and confirmed and ratified. Why hasn't this happened since 2001? This is actually the only thing that raises doubts that Poland has waited for 20 years to ratify this convention. The Left Club therefore fully supports this project and is in favour of ratification of the Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u342	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: The second part...]] Yes, this time I have already noticed that the second part of the speech will be delivered by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u343	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The High House is to ratify the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage, which was drawn up, as we know, in 2001. I would like to ask you the following question. Art. The 5th Constitution requires our country's authorities to protect their national heritage. Meanwhile, this convention we are talking about entered into force in 2008. I would like to ask the government why the Government of Law and Justice has not taken steps for the entire previous term of office and for half of the current term in order to properly secure the provisions of the Constitution and the Article in question. The 5 that I mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u344	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. We begin to ask questions to which six of your fellow Members present in the Chamber have signed up. Would anyone else like to join the questions? If not, I close the list by setting the time to ask a question - 1 minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u345	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This, of course, is a very important area. I wanted to ask whether the government intends to take some action on this matter, in the area of the protection of our culture, in the area of heritage, to strengthen those areas which today require special care, special protection, which are linked to heritage, and unfortunately, as a result of the negligence of recent years, remain in some way outside the patronage of the country that should be conducted. Of course, I am not talking about such big projects, because Law and Justice tend to make them so big that they can be seen. On the other hand, I am talking about these small, often local examples, our small homelands and small things that really (The Bell) show how our culture has evolved. They consist of these most important elements of our heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u346	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! But let me ask you a very specific question. That's what I'm talking about. The Convention was adopted in 2001. In 2021, i.e. after 20 years, Poland begins its adoption. Knowing that this convention entered into force in 2008, the questions are: Didn't you recommend the ratification of this convention earlier? If not, I would also like to ask your Deputy Prime Minister Gliński, what prevented your Deputy Prime Minister from making such a recommendation for the past six years. Maybe it was some serious stuff. Therefore, I would very kindly ask that Deputy Prime Minister Gliński, directing this bill to the Sejm, would like to explain it to the High Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u348	Thank you very much, sir. Now I ask Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested law concerns the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage. It must be acknowledged that Poland was one of the precursors in this area, because national laws were developed already at the beginning of the 21st century and included in the Act of 30 April 2005 on cinematography, which contains a chapter devoted to the collection, protection and dissemination of film collections. However, I have a question about the digitisation of these collections: What media are stored on, and is there no need to adapt them to the modern technological environment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u350	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Gaża will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u351	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The legal effects of the convention result in an increase in the Republic of Poland... They do not make it necessary to change legislation, but at the same time make us more connected with the European Union. That is why I ask: How many European countries have already joined this and what countries are these? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u352	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Rzep.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, a specific question about the standards of archiving. Does the National Film Library - The Audiovisual Institute apply current standards and is it so conducted that when the convention is ratified, we can make it available immediately? Wouldn't we have to do more of that? It's just that what was in the explanatory statement about costs is today the standard at the stage that we have today, which is, is this just going to be a technical transition? That's what I'd ask. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u354	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Zimoch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u355	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I don't think so. I don't think so. By the way, Minister, I have such a question, it appeared in one or another version: Why has the ratification work been taking so long? And I know you're gonna say it's been like this for years. Yes, it is. For example, the Act on the ratification of the Convention for the Protection of the Architecture Heritage of Europe, drawn up on 3 October 1985, was adopted on 13 May 2011 - after a quarter of a century, and before the year, 27 October, the Act on the ratification of the Convention for the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage, adopted on 2 November 2001, was adopted on almost 20 years. Minister! Can I ask you (the bell) to answer the question, if not now, in writing, perhaps in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, how many such forgotten, dusty conventions are there, and are they vacuumed accidentally, or is there some style and sense of work in it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u356	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Senyshin a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am interested in whether the government has already started to work on amendments to certain laws in force in Poland in connection with the ratification that will take place in the near future. If so, what specific laws will be amended and to what extent. It is known that it is most likely small, because Poland is essentially implementing European principles on the protection of national heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u358	Thank you very much, Member. On this, the list of Members of the Committee for Questions has been exhausted. And now I ask Minister Jarosław Sellin to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to comment on the questions concerning the date of ratification of the Convention, as asked by Mr Szopiński, Mr Gaża asked. The decision took place in the first half of 2020 when the Minister of Culture took action to ratify the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage. Let me remind you that this is a convention. The Council of Europe, because I had the impression that sometimes, it happens often, two institutions, the European Union and the Council of Europe are confused. This is a convention. The Council of Europe, i.e. this body, which brings together more than 20 countries than the European Union, brings together 47 countries. This is a convention of this structure, not of the European Union. Among the 47 signatory countries to this convention are 20 countries, a minority, and ratification has been carried out in 11 countries, so most of the countries of the Council of Europe have just not done so yet. We, I'm talking about the government, took up the Ub in October. a resolution on granting consent to the signing of the Convention. Permanent Polish representative to the Council of Europe Ambassador Baurski in December Ub. He signed the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage on behalf of Poland. Thus Poland has become the 20th signatory of the Convention, which, I repeat, has so far ratified 11 Member States. The convention has enabled the process of ratifying this multilateral international agreement to begin. In July this year Prime Minister Morawiecki signed a resolution of the Council of Ministers on the submission for ratification of this convention. The purpose of this convention is known, and the rapporteur and Member State spoke about the purpose of this convention. And you also said, rightly noting that, to a large extent, actually in its entirety, the objectives of this convention have been achieved in Polish almost since 2005, since the Act on cinema, which was adopted in April 2005, in which there is an important chapter on the collection, protection and dissemination of film collections, namely the protection of audiovisual heritage. I may be a little nasty, but since I'm glad all the groups, all the political environments today see the need for such protection... This is what I am saying to Mrs Navel: I welcome what I have heard from Mrs Navel, but in 2005, when I remind you, it was April, it was still the environment of the Left, and the Law and Justice and the Civic Platform were in opposition, this legislation on cinema, which is already consuming the objectives of this convention, i.e. it has already introduced safeguards. As regards the protection of audiovisual heritage, it was supported by the ruling party at that time, but also by the opposition party Law and Justice, but was not supported by the Civic Platform. I reply immediately to Mrs Navel, because there was a question about what carriers this heritage is protected on. The principle is that on the media on which the reference copy is produced is supplied to the appropriate institution, but all of this means actually digitising resources, i.e. digitisation of cinematographic resources, digitisation of audiovisual resources. There was a question about 11 countries that have already ratified it. These are: Bosnia, Croatia, France, Georgia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Monaco, Germany, Serbia, Slovakia and Hungary. We will join this group of countries after the vote on this convention today or tomorrow. There have been such very general questions by Mr Suchon, whether audiovisual heritage is also protected at local level. With us, there is a rule that for each film produced, a copy must be provided in due time after production to the appropriate institution. Then he is already protected because this institution is involved in securing and possibly digitizing this material so that it can serve the next generation. This solution is generally included in our Cinema Act. Mr Rzepa asked about this process of digitisation. It is implemented in several institutions, not only in the National Film Library - Audiovisual Institute. After all, it digitizes its very rich resources from the Documentary and Fabulous Film Works in Warsaw and the Centre for Audiovisual Technologies in Wroclaw. As far as costs are concerned, for example. The National Film Library itself - The Audiovisual Institute enjoys a regular, subjective grant, systematically paid for the functioning of this institution in the amount of PLN 30 million per year. A percentage of this money is being used to digitize our audiovisual achievements. Mr Zimoch's question about other conventions. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I can't respond to the heat. We'll tell the MFA to send this reply in writing. To answer Mrs Senyszyn's question, I would like to say that there is no need to amend the Act, because the Act on Cinema, as we have said, primarily the Act on Cinema, has ensured that audiovisual heritage is protected. For 16 years, there have been such obligations in our law. They are even, some of you have noticed this in their speeches, going further than what the Convention contains, so we have even more security than the minimum required by the Convention. Let me also - it wasn't in the questions, it was in the club speeches - answer to... [[On what media?]] Excuse me, Minister, but for the third time, Mrs Navel is trying to ask what media it is on. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sports Jarosław Sellin: I answered. On the media on which the reference copy is produced, but regardless of the media on which it is made, it is all digitized to be available in the digital version. Mr Kaminski from the Confederation has raised some doubts about the sense of protecting the audiovisual heritage, because he claims that there are few outstanding works produced in Polish cinematography. He took particular care of films touching Polish history. Well, I would like to inform interested people in the Chamber that in the last 6 years 80 films have been produced in Poland concerning only Polish history, including 27 feature films. The others are documentary, educational, and animation. Six years would seem like a short time. Among those feature films, which I believe to be in the history of Polish cinematography and due to the subject taken up, and due to the... Of course, you can always subjectively judge whether the film is outstanding or good or just correct. But we have such films that have appeared in the last six years, like a movie called "The Bible. " The young Piłsudski, about the early years of Józef Piłsudski's life, Dividion 303, the pardon of Jakub Kolski, an outstanding film about soldiers cursed, the Camerdiner, the fates of Polish-German-Kashubski in Pomerania with a very moving scene of the murder in Piasnica, never before shown in the Polish feature film, the Legions, the story of the legionary act, the Piłsudski, the big biography of Józef Piłsudski, the Curier of Jan Nowaku-Jezioranski, the Mr. T. about Leopold Tyrmanda, the film about Fr. Ziei, a film called Geniuses of Stanisław Ulam, an outstanding Polish mathematician, a film on the ORP submarine Eagle, Victoria 1920, about the Polish-Bolshevik War, Orlęta, a film about the defenders of Grodna - it is about the September 1939 episode, because the title could indicate the history of Lviv about 20 years earlier - young people fighting against Soviets in the defense of Grodno in September 1939, The Master, a lot of reviews recently of this film, fresh production of Tadeusz Pietrzykowski, prisoner of Auschwitz, who defended his honor and prisoners, leading in this hell of the concentration boxing camp, Klecha, a film about Fr. Roman Kotlarz, Chaplain of Radom workers from 1976, to be sure that there will be no trace of the film submitted to the competition this year about the murder of Grzegorz Przemek - I think it will be one of the loudest films that will be evaluated or discussed at the festival in Gdynia in a few days - the death of Zygielbojma, about Szmul Zygielbojm, a member of the National Council of the Republic of Poland during World War II in London, who committed suicide, seeing how the world is indifferent and silent in the face of the extermination of Polish Jews, the film about Jolanta Brzeska, a very captivating film, also submitted to the competition in Gdynia, which shows this entire pathology related to the reprivatization of tenements in Warsaw, and the film about Poles saving Jews. So that the historical cinema in Poland was reborn, there are much more of these productions than in previous years. To a large extent, it is not only a question of sensitivity of Polish filmmakers, i.e. directors, writers, but we also create various kinds of incentives, e.g. in the form of script competitions, so that movies like this can appear, so that filmmakers can work on such scripts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u360	Minister, if you wait a moment, Mr Suchoń, who was called to the board, will clarify his question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u361	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, I may have expressed myself overly generally, and therefore the Minister was polite not to fully understand my intentions, but I meant amateur film clubs such as. The clap that operates in Cieszyński Silesia in Chybiu. This is a movie club that has a 50-year history. He was there, for example. Franciszek Dzida, whose history was the basis, canvass of the film "Amateur Kieślowski." And there, in the resources of our small local film clubs, as in Chybiu, in Klapsa, there are really thousands of hours of films that describe Poland in the last few decades. These are absolutely unique images from various kinds of holidays: state, traditional folk, but also church ones, which show how Poland looked like. I was just asking about this kind of ministry activity, if there is any chance to save this heritage (the Bell), which is perhaps already slowly forgotten there, and it dies somewhere. This is a really big piece of our story, documenting how people lived in our little homelands. I would very much ask that the Minister take this action in some way as well. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u362	Are you going to refer to the Minister or are you just taking note?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u363	Two sentences only on this subject. Of course, I will check with my colleagues what exactly happens to the acquis of this institution, which you mentioned. But it seems to me that due to the regulation that has been in force in Poland for 16 years, which requires such activities as the transfer of materials to the appropriate institution for the protection of audiovisual heritage, i.e. mainly to FINA, within 30 days of the end of production, no later than on the day of the beginning of the distribution of materials, and in addition the transmission of such things as the scenario, assembly list, dialogue list, photos, posters, subtitle lists, advertising materials... It's all the Cinema Act that tells us to pass it on to audiovisual security. I suppose that's what's happening, because it's also in the interests of the creators, in the interests of the institutions that you've been talking about, that their accomplishments will last forever. So I think it's happening. But, of course, as far as this particular institution is concerned, we will check whether this obligation is being fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u364	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Law on State aid to raise children and certain other laws, print No 1561. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on State aid to raise children and certain other laws (Prints Nos 1530 and 1561). I ask Mrs Teresa Glenc to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on State Aid in Raising Children and some other laws, print No. 1530. At its 37th meeting of 15 September 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. Amendments of a legislative and editorial nature were tabled at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on 16 September 2021. The Social Policy and Family Committee, after considering this proposal at its meeting on 16 September 2021, requests the adoption of this draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u366	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Robert Warwas to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u367	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the Law on State aid in raising children and certain other laws. The draft is included in print No 1530 and the committee's report in print No 1561. High Izbo! Introduced by the Government of Law and Justice in 2016 500+ education was a breakthrough moment in which the State reached out a helping hand to Polish families. In earlier years, there was no support mechanism that would not only improve the material situation of families, but, above all, gave them the right priority. So far, over 6.5 million children have been included in the 500+ family programme, and 156 billion PLN has been added to the families. This support contributes to improving both the financial situation and the quality of life of families. Importantly, the amendment of the law does not introduce any changes to the rights of families, their access to the benefit of 500+. The aim of the changes is only to optimise the provision process by using increasingly common tools such as IT systems, and to put emphasis on non-cash forms of payment of educational benefits, as well as to reduce the costs of granting and transferring eligible funds by relying on the Social Insurance Institution. It is envisaged to automate the law investigation and issue decisions by providing the appropriate software in the Social Security Office, which will reduce the costs of handling applications because most applications will not have to be handled by the employee. Only cases requiring analysis of the Annex to the application or investigation with the applicant will be carried out by a ZUS employee. The change in the form of applications - only by electronic means - was verified by the introduction of 1 July this year. A good start for the pilot scheme. It runs without any technical or organizational problems. Similarly as in the case of the so-called. the 300+ programme, as in the case of the 500+ programme, measures will be taken to select applications only via the Internet. The development of digitalisation allows these benefits to be automated. This translates into significant savings, which can be passed on to the operation of further family support programmes, including the draft law on family care capital that is being launched tomorrow. The amendment introduces payment of benefits only in non-cash form. For example: the cost of ordering a transfer by ZUS is only 6 gr, with the cost of ordering a single post transfer, the postal transfer is already 7 PLN 12 gr. This amendment aims at saving costs on the part of the distribution of the benefit and simplifying the process, since only in the case of less than 2% of persons, the payment of the benefit takes place in a form other than a transfer to a bank account. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that the draft law contained in the report of the Committee on Printing No 1561 be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u368	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u369	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Coalition club to present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Law on State Aid in Raising Children and some other laws, prints Nos 1530 and 1561. The Civic Coalition Club is strongly against the transfer of service to the Social Insurance Institution. In my speech yesterday, I drew attention to the fatal situation of the ZUS, both in terms of low wages, negative moods among employees, excessive responsibilities imposed on them, insufficient equipment of offices, poor working conditions and poor IT system. The current situation of this institution has not been analysed in any way, and yet you are making important key decisions, making far-reaching changes for employees and, above all, for recipients of benefits. Isn't the Ministry concerned that the additional tasks imposed may result in the collapse of the pension system? Especially since the number of people benefiting from these benefits increases every year. The government of this law casts off responsibility for human fate, for the release of nearly 12 thousand. employees for local authorities, who so far have fulfilled their role in implementing the programme. After all, it was local governments that recruited, trained thousands of people throughout the country who are involved in the operation of this program. It was the municipalities that incurred huge organisational and implementation costs associated with its implementation. Removing municipalities from operating the scheme will reduce their ability to indebt, and this will be equivalent to reducing the possibility of implementing investment plans. The resources they still receive under this task are a very important part of their budget. After all, it is a fixed amount, which is of great importance for the income of local governments. In the RIO activity report and implementation of the budget by local government units for 2020 we read that last year's municipalities' budgets in 56% were based on revenues transferred from the state budget, in the form of targeted grants and subsidies. Own income is 44%. Another year in a row significantly more funds in the targeted grant group have contributed to the execution of tasks contracted in connection with the transfer of grants to local governments for the payment of educational benefits. grants for tasks contracted and exceed half of the total amount of special-purpose grants received. The effectiveness of the study by the Social Security Office is also questionable. We now have qualified social workers who have more insight into the situation of their families to verify their applications. They make sure that the funds can reach the eligible persons effectively. In addition, the municipalities of some 500+ customers acknowledge that they know them well because social workers supervise those funds which are received by the recipients. You can ask why it's all about changing something that works well. It's just gonna be cheaper. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy in the justification for the amendment of the Act explains that thanks to the tourist vouchers introduced a year ago, which could have been received by submitting applications only electronically, or the implementation of the programme of But the Ministry knows very well that the coverage of 500+ is much wider and includes more families. At the same time, the impact assessment states that 84% was electronically submitted this year. applications and 16% in a way that will no longer be available after the amendment. The changes will primarily affect the families that need benefits the most. These are poor families, from smaller urban centers or villages and families excluded digitally. According to social workers, this is not a margin and 84% It's not almost everyone. 16% applications submitted in paper form means that almost 1/5 beneficiaries have benefited from this form. It can therefore be concluded that these 16% above all, families, children who may not be able to afford a computer that is digitally and communicatively excluded. Employees of social assistance centres point out that many people currently applying in paper form have even a problem with this. They need support, help to fill them. What happens if the form has to be filled out with a computer? It should also be borne in mind that the benefit of 500+ can be given to parents (the bell), legal guardians, including grandparents, who, due to their age, may have problems with a new form of application and fear of forcing documents to be completed only by electronic means. Since there are so many doubts, such a mass of critical voices, concerns, we simply need to maintain the hybrid system, give the possibility to submit applications in both electronic and paper form and prepare for more robust changes that are so far-reaching, extending, for example, the time of the entry into force of the law. Minister! Give those who are in the most difficult situation a chance. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are many questions, issues to explain even more. As usual, we feel that the government has come up with something, but the most interested, i.e. families, employees of the ZUS, who will now have a lot of responsibility, the least knowledge, and they are kind of next to all this confusion. I therefore make three amendments on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club. The first amendment concerns leaving the payment of the benefit to the family of 500+, as it is, in local governments, the second amendment leaving the form of submission of applications in paper and electronic form and the third entry into force of the law in 2023. Thank you very much. I'm handing over the amendments. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u370	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Magdalena Beyat to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u371	High Izbo! The project submitted assumes the transfer of the service of the benefit 500+ from the municipalities to the ZUS. The main arguments here are the computerisation of public services and the reduction of the costs of coordination of the 500+ programme. The representatives of the family ministry keep saying that optimization is necessary. They change this argument by all cases, not to mention that it will take place at the expense of workers and workers, especially workers, because it happens that the deterioration of living and working conditions will affect women again. Centralisation and computerisation are, as a rule, not a bad idea, nor is improving the process of assessing applications and delivering benefits. The problem is that the transfer of 500+ to ZUS since January 2022, as soon as possible, without consulting social workers and employees of ZUS, will not improve much. On the contrary, it will cause chaos and will have negative social and economic consequences, which the originators do not see or rather try not to see. It is true that ZUS has extensive experience in the implementation of various benefits, but in recent years the service of other social programs and anti-crisis shields has fallen on the shoulders of the officials working there. There was no extra money for these additional tasks, no very low wages raised, no additional employees employed. As a result, officials were forced to work after hours and on weekends. Neither does this project provide for additional funding for the Social Security Office nor for raising salaries to reduce the turnover of workers who leave to work elsewhere as soon as they gain experience or increase employment. You ignore the fact that the Social Security Office is currently in a collective dispute with workers whose situation has deteriorated dramatically in recent years. The government and the PiS state are pretending that this problem simply doesn't exist. Similarly, there is no reflection on the social impact of the proposed law. You did not include this in the impact assessment, I understand, just to be able to ignore the opinion of trade unions. In the meantime, experts warn that if this law is implemented within just a few months, there will be no negative effects on the labour market, on the availability and quality of public services, and also on social welfare costs. Currently, the 500+ programme is supported by almost 12 thousand. local staff. At the stage of the project consultation, the government could ask local authorities about possible exemptions and their cost through, for example, the central reporting application system and obtain accurate data, but of course it is better to pretend that there is no problem, and simply do not ask such questions just in case. Then you can pretend that the problem doesn't really concern us. Meanwhile, the Polish Federation of Social Workers and Social Assistance asked local governments these questions. According to the data obtained, two people will lose their jobs after transferring 500+ to ZUS on average in each self-government unit. This means payment of compensation, severance payments, unemployment benefits and social benefits for officials who will be deprived of income. The same benefits due to redundant workers are estimated at PLN 12 million per month, and social welfare costs will be added. In the light of these facts, the savings that the originators estimate at just over 300 million a year are melting in their eyes. You predict that beneficiaries who will have to complete the application or lodge an appeal and those who are digitally excluded or in need of support in completing the application are to receive assistance in ZUS facilities, only that the ZUS has only 322 facilities to go to. It should be added that in these places officials support all other tasks of the ZUS and queues already are long. Self-governments have a network of 2.5,000. OPS and offices in each municipality. Over the years, they have employed and trained an army specializing in this specific program of people. How do you know that ZUS employees will be better placed by computerization of the system than social workers closest to families? I really don't know. It is also puzzling to remove commercial support for the implementation of the Public Procurement Law programme. This shows that you yourselves have doubts that the ZUS will be able to manage this task. But if you're providing additional resources for the implementation of the bill, why don't you just hand them over to the ZUS? - I'm asking you again. Would this be another opportunity for contracts for relatives and acquaintances? That's really good thinking. Now you won't even have to set the tenders. I'm just going to make a discretionary deal with whoever it is you need to sign. I must say, you have a lot of momentum and nerve. Of course, the representatives of the family ministry explain that removing the implementation of 500+ by the Social Security Office from the Public Procurement Law results from a haste. Otherwise, the Social Security Department won't be able to prepare. So I ask: What's the rush? Why don't you give the families, local governments, the ZUS time to prepare for this change? Why are you running a hasty optimization of spending at the expense of the workers, mostly the women you defended (the bell) during today's trade ban debate on Sundays? If you care so much about optimizing public spending, why don't you look at the costs generated by the Boards of State Treasury companies, which in your governments multiply like mushrooms after the rain? Today we are making amendments that will extend the vacathio legis by one year, giving time to all those concerned to prepare for the transfer of tasks from the municipalities to the Social Security Office and they remove the exclusion of the implementation of the programme from the Public Procurement Law. I recommend your attention. Maybe they'll give us a chance to do something right for once. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u372	Now I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Ironowska to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u373	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The discussion on the Law on State aid in raising children yesterday in the Sejm, as well as a long and turbulent discussion in the Sejm committee with representatives of the Ministry, did not answer most of the questions asked by Members. Some answers indicate that the Ministry is simply not prepared for this process. The issue of the finances of local governments to which measures will be taken, which for this reason represent around 10% the budget of local governments, also does not touch the rulers. The government didn't think about the community officials who were hired and trained to operate these programs, and who are just gonna lose their jobs now. The government doesn't care about ZUS employees either. The solutions proposed by this law should serve the family. However, the provisions of this law are not good and not everyone will be able to make full use of them. They are undoubtedly designed to reduce red tape and reduce costs. The main change will be that the operation of the programme will be entrusted to the Social Insurance Institution. We already know today that this is a very bad solution for families and for ZUS employees who are protesting because they are very heavily burdened with work for disproportionate pay. ZUS employees are not writing us, MPs, petitions on this matter from now on. These measures should, as so far, be available to local authorities who know the situation of families and can verify whether the amount will be used for children's needs. From the perspective of the distant ZUS, this will not be possible. Taking away the opportunity to provide 500+ educational services to the general public, mayors, city presidents, is a loss of a large part of the funding for local governments, and the employees of these local governments may lose their jobs, as I have already mentioned. Also controversial in this law is the provision amending the formula for submitting applications so that this will only be possible via the Internet, and the payment of benefits can only be made in a non-cash form to the bank account indicated by the applicant. Departure from cash payments will not allow all parents, carers to receive the support due, because simply still about 15% citizens do not have such an account. This could rule out a group of children taking advantage of this support. The effectiveness of the study by the Social Security Office of the grounds for entitlement to the benefit, in particular the common residence with the child and the child being taken care of by the mother or father, is also questionable. The municipalities are closer to family and guardians than the ZUS. Moreover, it is the municipalities of some of the beneficiaries of 500+ who also grant family benefits, so they know the situation of at least some families. The US does not have such information, and they will never be tempted to check it out, and that is what children will suffer from. Another group of people who need to conduct an extended investigation are foreigners. The question is, how can such investigations be handled by the Social Security Office? The Coalition Club Poland - Polish People's Party will vote in favour of the bill subject to the adoption of the relevant amendments which I am submitting to the hands of the Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u374	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mrs Joanna Mucha to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u375	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Maybe I'll start by making my speech by handing over the amendments, the two amendments I'm making to this bill. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this law focuses on one of the biggest problems of our great country, and in particular the one ruled by the PiS, which is the lack of ability to use what we have already worked out, what we already know. The PiS have already accustomed us to the fact that if we have learned something and we are doing something well, then we have to turn it over and do it differently, mostly worse... [[Is there a PiS state?]] ...because local governments already have databases, because local governments already support them, local governments are already doing great with this task. In the last two days, as this debate has been going on, I have been contacted by a lot of people from ZUS and local governments who tell me what the differences between local government databases and the ZUS database are supposed to be. E.g. such differences that at the moment when it is alternate care and mom, dad should receive 150 PLN each, they receive both 300 PLN each, because the system does not see it. Self-governments have learned that. Now the ZUS will learn it again. You are proposing a law that is bad for the recipients, bad for the employees of local governments, because they will simply be fired, bad for the local authorities themselves, because the debt ratios will change them clearly, bad for the employees of the ZUS. Then who's it good for? For the Minister? Of course, I also again make an amendment to the tender and I would like to call very strongly on the Confederation to support this amendment. It's about deleting the article. 16 of this bill. This is an article that tells us that you can get this IT system through and through. I'm saying this on purpose, because everything indicates that this system has already been dealt with. Small 50 million zlotys of taxpayers. It's already done illegally, because it's not in the bill. And the second amendment, which concerns non-cash transfers. In this case, too, we believe that if the State obliges its citizens to trade in cash or to offer to trade in cash, it cannot release itself from that obligation. Finally, we will not vote in favour of this law, of course, but we hope that someday, maybe in some time this very vague issue of the tender will be clarified and treated in an appropriate manner by the institutions of the Polish State. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u376	Thank you very much, Member. I am now asking Mrs Agnieszka to pursue the position of the Polish Circle of Posel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u377	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Cases Circle, I will once again present my position regarding the amendment of the Law on State aid in raising children. In my opinion, in our opinion, this bill has far more downsides than the pluses, as we mentioned. It's about transferring 500+ benefits to ZUS, which was also promoted as prodemographic at the beginning, and we already know that it is not. It is a social benefit, helping Polish children, Polish families to improve their life situation. The downside I want to talk about is, above all, this dubious cost optimization. And I'm gonna start with this. Firstly, the impact of the changes on the labour market and the exemption costs of around 10 000 have not been calculated. employees who will definitely go to benefits, and their living situation will definitely deteriorate for at least some time, which will also cost. We don't know what the costs are with the transfer or the change or the new IT system in the ZUS. All we know is that we have probably the most expensive IT system because we spend 800 million PLN a year on this system. I think it's gonna be another expense. As we all know, no bidding. We know, or we don't actually know how much it's gonna cost, so we can assume that there are millions. The municipalities that are already implementing this programme simply have systems that are consistent, they work with systems where they can check whether the child has alternate care, whether he attends school, whether he can achieve full cooperation with the family, in cases where it performs any functions, presents non-educational attitudes. And that's what I really want to talk about. As I said before, it may not be politically correct, but as a social worker, I can consciously say that in some families the situation of their educational skills has deteriorated. Being in the social assistance system, social workers as the only ones in Poland have the right to go and work with their family to help them overcome difficulties. They have a chance to pick up when the kids get hurt. We work in municipalities that have anti-violence systems that have support systems such as nutrition and all other elements. And it is social assistance, the one closest to it, that social workers are still in contact with these families. These are moments where we can work preventively to make the kids really feel good. So why move it to the ZUS? Of course, you leave a record there that says that social assistance will be able to respond. But in what situations? These people will no longer be in social assistance registers. And will the ZUS look around and wonder how this money is spent? No, a ZUS employee is just gonna make a decision. This law has no impact on improving access to this benefit, because of course we still have digital exclusion and many more families, especially the poorest in rural areas, have problems with access to the Internet and fulfilling applications. In addition, the municipality is 2.5 thousand. places where such a person, family (the bell) can come, not 320 branches of the ZUS, which very often have problems with their own system, now often not working. Circle of Polish Cases amends to dissuade you from this decision. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u378	Thank you very much, Member. Now Mr Dobromir Sosnierz will present the position of the Confederation's circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u379	The 500+ program was supposed to be a prodemographic program, not a social program, I recall. You really believed that he would improve the childhood. That's what you said when you brought him in. And you even blew away the success when the statistics started moving up a little bit. Of course, as in any such distribution program, it quickly turned out that the effects are deceptive, because people who still wanted to have children just speeded up these decisions. So for a short time we got this hill, and then there was a return to the downward trend, even faster. You didn't predict this correctly, so you don't know economics, you can't predict phenomena properly. We said from the beginning that it wasn't right to act like this, and we were right. So we know economics, you don't know economics. Let's figure it out first, who's good at what. So next time, listen to what those who were right. A good government is one that teaches citizens to cope without this government, just as a good parent is one who raises a child so that he can manage later in life without parents. What would we call a parent who takes money out of their kids' money to take them out for ice cream the next day? And that's what you're doing. The evil government is focused on quietly taking and loudly giving people feel dependent on this government. It is perhaps Mr Horała, who, after all, was the former UPR-owiec, who tried to present the 500+ benefit as the biggest tax reduction as such a tax return. It's just that a person who says that doesn't understand economics at all. If you wanted to do a tax reduction, you had to do a tax reduction instead of digging your left hand in your right pocket. Economics is unfortunately or steths to a large extent psychology. If we're reducing people's taxes, he's taking it completely differently. He keeps to himself more than so far some of the fruits of his work. Then his conviction is strengthened, and rightly because of his well-being he owes his work, his resourcefulness, his abilities, his education. So it makes him more motivated to work. But if the same man first has to give back the money he earned and then gets equal from the government, the same for all the benefits for anything, maybe it's called 500+, maybe it's called a survival bonus, then we're gonna deprive him of the idea that it's worth working because if you work, he'll take it away from you, and if you knock on the right room at the office, you'll get the money. In this way, you create a motivational system - or rather a demotivation system - in which the welfare of life is increasingly less dependent on the efforts, efforts of the citizen, and increasingly depends on whether it will properly fill in the application for the benefit. 500+ are de facto alimony to other people's children and buying voters with their own money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u380	Thank you very much, sir. Twenty-five people signed up for the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join this list? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Mr Andrzej Szewiński will be the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Częstochowa, the implementation of this bill will result in entrusting the Social Insurance Institution with the tasks that Częstochowa Centre of Benefits has been dealing with so far. Up to now, this centre has paid educational benefits under the programs of the family of 500+ and 300+, the work will be lost to about 30 people who have the appropriate competence and experience in conducting family and social policy cases. I have a question. Minister, will the employees of the Częstochowa Centre of Benefits find employment within the framework of the ZUS structures in Częstochowa? Is work being done on a systemic solution to this problem? In the end, I'm gonna bring up this little thing. The transfer of this task to the ZUS leads to a reduction of revenue in Częstochowa by PLN 195 million. This is an example from a particular city (The Bell), but such cities in Poland... This is gonna be all the cities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u382	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The action taken by the government is an action in the right direction, but it is taking place at the wrong pace and in the wrong way. I think that the Polish government on the one hand says that it will save on this, in local governments within 10 years 3.4 billion PLN, but on the other hand on the capu paw, without tender procedure, wants to select the contractor of the entire system associated with the operation of this program. Secondly, I'm very afraid that this 30% Those who have so far applied for a written witness will die there in the ZUS. You'll no longer be served by an OPS employee. It'll be a number printed from the computer. Therefore (The Bell) is extremely concerned that some of these people will not be served on time in the right way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u384	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u385	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We raise extremely important arguments, which relate primarily to the efficiency of the entire system of spending funds for 500+. For the past few years, it has been local workers who are closest to human affairs who have helped all those who have had problems with submitting an application, or those who have not had, for example. Internet access. There are 5 million such people in Poland. Among them are the unemployed and the disabled. You want to de facto release nearly 12 thousand. qualified employees who on a daily basis help Poles and Poles entitled to benefit from the 500+ program. That's very bad information. Secondly, it's a system that operates in the ZUS. The workers are overtired, overworked. We're probably gonna have another bunch of people fighting for raises in a minute. You can't burden this system and ruin what works well. That's what self-government is for, to be closer to people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, we ask you not to make these changes, because they will harm the program, not help it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u386	Thank you very much. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The electronic submission of applications will cause many problems. What will happen to people who can't use that kind of equipment? They don't have people who can help them? These are helpless people, and at the same time they are the most needy. What will happen to people who today, the High Sejm, are having trouble getting benefits, even though applications are not necessarily made electronically because their situation is complicated? Their cases lie after a few months, sometimes even two years, at the provincial office. I know cases like this because I've intervened in cases like this many times in the voivodeship. These people will be in the margins because of the government's savings. It's just gonna be cheaper. It's not about helping those who need it the most. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u388	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u389	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We know who will pay for this reform. All Poles will pay for this reform. Unfortunately, we don't know who's gonna make money from it yet. That's what we'll find out later. We know that purchases will be made without tenders and out of control. Therefore, we must ask what is the result of this haste. I would like to ask who will bear the costs associated with the need to reclassify 12 000. employees employed by local authorities. Has anyone even estimated these costs? If there is a restructuring programme for miners, this is where I want to request a restructuring programme for 12,000. Polish officials who will be released massively. Will the government leave local governments and these workers on ice on this matter? And last question: What will be the increase (the bell) for ZUS employees who will operate these programs? I ask the Minister very kindly to respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u390	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u391	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, This law moves the 500+ programme from self-government to ZUS. High Izbo! I will remind you that several years ago family benefits from the Social Security Office were transferred to the ILOS and GOPS and that tasks were structured according to the authority's competence. My question is, is the further step in eliminating the ILOS, the GOPS, moving sentences to the ZUS because it's cheaper? High Izbo! In addition to the statutory tasks, the ZUS carried out payment of the parking benefit, tourist voucher, and since July this year it has been carrying out 300+. Currently, the ZUS has a very bad atmosphere caused by too much burden on employees. The government has another task to perform, but it will not examine whether the employees of the ZUS are physically able to perform it. ZUS employees are talking about a warning strike. There is a collective dispute with the employer in the Social Insurance Institution (the bell). There is therefore a high risk that pensioners and pensioners will not receive benefits on time. My questions. When will the government deal with solving problems in the ZUS? How is the implementation of the 300+ programme going? And will the government guarantee timely payment of benefits including 500+, and how will it do so if today is such a difficult situation and it does not seem to be resolved? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u392	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was thinking, actually, as a member of the opposition who doesn't want anything good for this government, I should sit back in my chair and wait to see this beautiful disaster. The problem is that your careless actions - without the imagination of lawmaking - affect the lives of real people. My question is, are you aware of what's been going on in the U.S.S. for the last time? My parliamentary office was stormed by pregnant women. A record player of 4.5 months did not receive a child benefit from the ZUS because you stuffed the ZUS, completely paralyzing his work so that people had life dramas because they were left without income. To this ZUS, which is already inefficient, you now want to add another task, as if you were not aware that it is simply impossible and impossible. I won't mention whether you've asked your constituents, because in your environment, it's going to be the biggest problem with digital exclusion. Do you have any idea what you're gonna do with $10,000? employees who lose their jobs because of this? Do you have an idea and a solution for self-governments whose funds will not only go away (the bell) but whose credit will also be reduced? The last sentence, the chairman, as I sometimes look at what you do without imagination, feels like you need such catastrophes, so that you can set up committees, so that Macierewicz has something to do and investigate the cause of the catastrophe that you didn't see coming. And save it, because in the end, you always have one conclusion that it's Tusk's fault. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: But you know what...]] [[Voice from the room: Minister...]] [[The voice from the room: Shame to make such a comparison.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u394	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In connection with the procedated State aid law on raising children, which is de facto a transfer of 500+ benefits from the ILOs, GOPS to the Social Insurance Institution, I have specific questions to ask the Minister and I would also like to answer in writing if possible. Why are you in such a hurry to get a few thousand workers and workers fired in municipalities in a few months? Just record speed. And who's gonna cover the cost of these layoffs? Are you gonna flip it over to the local government, or are you gonna take it on your shoulders if it's really the government's idea? Will the salaries of ZUS employees and employees increase in connection with the next tasks entrusted to them? Why is the government in such a hurry to repeal the Public Procurement Law or not at all? Because actually buying things, I don't know, I guess by free hand or whatever you want to do, leads to you skipping the law. Why, instead of doing something right, do you want to do it quickly and just like that? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u396	Thank you very much. I invite you, Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u397	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is not easy to be a constructive opposition to the PiS government. Sometimes we would like to support a good solution, especially in the area of social policy. As you are finally repairing the system errors concerning children in foster care or staying in institutions for which correction of the Left is requested from the given, you are linking this to grandpa, shambery, breaking the principles of integrity, integrity and the rule of law in the ZUS. Art. 16 exempts the Social Insurance Institution from the obligation to comply with public procurement rules. Fifty million outside of any control and rules? What kind of ZUS suppliers have already made deals and are having conversations before you legitimize this grandpa? Who does ZUS get along with without any tenders? Whose brother-in-law's gonna make money? And where's Minister Ziobro, where's Central Corruption Bureau? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u398	Thank you very much. Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u399	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With this law, you are killing people who are digitally excluded, this law you are doing more work for the employees of ZUS, this law is likely to release more than 12 thousand. The ILO staff, this law, you also blow up local governments. As representatives of the Association of Municipalities and Districts of Wielkopolska said in their speech, I quote: the solution proposed by the Polish Government will be detrimental to local government units and direct recipients. So far, the funds received by local authorities to carry out their tasks have been an important component of the municipality's budget. These amounts have affected the government's revenue and their absence may result in a reduction in the municipality's debt capacity. In the current financial situation, many local government units are a major threat, because the capacity to make commitments will be limited or lost. This could be equivalent to reducing the scope for investment plans. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the government deliberately and deliberately want to hit these local governments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u400	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Ewa Cicholska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u401	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The 500+ programme is a huge support for Polish families, but it is justified, ladies and gentlemen, to verify and optimize the process of granting and operating the 500+ programme, as well as to reduce its costs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Social Insurance Institution is an institution with adequate resources and IT systems. Thanks to this, 500+ benefits will be supported more efficiently and efficiently. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There can also be savings, about PLN 3.1 billion, which we will also be able to allocate to other projects. Minister! Will this programme also reduce the risk to COVID-19? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u402	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u403	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Ministry also uses a number of arguments that as a result of the implementation of the proposed solutions, i.e. the transfer of the benefit payments from the scheme of the family of 500+. to the ZUS, local government units will strengthen the fight against the current epidemic threat. So I have questions about this assumption: What are the specific tasks? Has the Ministry prepared a list of tasks to be carried out by local authorities? Are there specific financial resources for local governments behind these planned tasks in the fight against the pandemic? But does the Ministry provide for compensation for the costs incurred by the local authorities of the programme, which has been implemented over a number of years? This is about measures, e.g. for the purchase of equipment, rental of premises, purchase of software, or training of staff operating the 500+ family programme, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as well as the costs associated with the exemption of 12 000. the employees who carried out this programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u404	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are extremely surprised and astonished that the flagship PiS program, about which are written on all the banners carried, the 500+ program, is no longer so important. The transfer of the service of the 500+ programme from local staff to the Social Insurance Institution is highly risky. After all, you have not consulted this in any way, and it is not a secret that this employer is in a collective dispute with employees because of overloading them with other sentences. Moreover, the ZUS is no longer able to operate the 300+ program, which is only a one-off expense, a supplement for students. Ladies and gentlemen! How are you going to solve this situation? Of course, there are 43,000 ZUS employees who are already overworked. Moreover, we must also claim local workers who will lose their jobs, and there are about 12 thousand of them. Ladies and gentlemen, this is all at the expense of hardworking people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In addition, pensioners and pensioners may be rightly concerned because the collective dispute is a fact, there is a general strike in the air in the ZUS. Question: "Will it not affect the planned payment of pensions to our senior citizens?" I ask you very kindly to answer, if not from this pulpit, at least in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u406	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Hello, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Looking for savings, you're gonna make $12,000. officials employed by local government units will lose their jobs as early as January 2022. In addition, the legal solution to submit applications by electronic means alone is nothing but discrimination and exclusion of a group of society that does not have a computer and is unable to use such tools. Please answer the questions: How does the government plan to solve the problem of applications by people who for various reasons are unable to submit them via the Internet? Is the ZUS ready in terms of personnel and organization to take on such a responsible and large task as 500+ support? Have there been consultations with ZUS institutions? Are there secured funds for all ZUS institutions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It will be important to reduce the income of local government units, which were taken into account in borrowing. The municipalities' budgets will be reduced. It's not a thoughtful bill, it's not acceptable. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u408	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u409	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the only project we are discussing today, which is aimed at local governments as well as against people. If this project comes into force, you'll release $12,000. persons. As Vice President of Łódź, I was there when the project was being prepared, when we invited people to fight together for 500+ benefits to be paid on time. And today you're showing those people who passed the test, the middle finger. You have no sympathy for the people. You're not a human party. You're an anti-human party. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u410	Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! By changing the subject, you introduce many new simplifications, such as administrative procedures for determining the right to provide education. E.g. the appeal against the decision of the Social Insurance Institution is now to be dealt with by the President of the Social Insurance Institution himself. The proposed changes aimed at improving the examination of applications, although previously presented by the social side and by the local government, did not meet with a favourable reception of the Ministry. Today, however, these changes, it turns out, without obstacles, are being processed, and the changes of the realizer explain the desire to improve the efficiency of the task performed. The question remains, therefore, why these changes could not be made when the realist is the self-government and is introduced as a justification when the realist is to be the Social Insurance Institution. I am sure that you are aware that the change of the provider does not mean, however, to remove the tasks from social assistance centres, because these entities will continue to determine the actual situation (the bell) in the care provision, and will verify the reliability of the expenditure of the benefits granted, and after an appropriate procedure has been carried out by the Social Security Office, they will take care of the expenditure of these funds. All these activities, however, will be performed by the employees of local government units without any additional remuneration, I understand, simply in the form of volunteering. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u412	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u413	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The solutions proposed in this Act are very beneficial. They do not interfere to any extent with the basis for the payment of the parental benefit or change the circle of persons entitled to the benefit. Their aim is only to optimise the provision process through the use of IT tools and non-cash withdrawals. You were first criticizing the 500+ program... [[$12,000. People...]] ...and now you have a lot of ideas to change it. It's scary to think that if you came to power, you'd be shutting him down again. [[Voice from the room: Why change it?]] Minister! I would like to ask what the savings for the state budget will bring to all these changes in relation to this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u414	Thank you very much. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With all my responsibility, I must say that this bill does not lead to anything, but rather will lead to the fact that older people who raise their grandchildren in foster homes will be in very big trouble. And not even because they don't have a computer, but because they just don't know how to use it. That's one thing. The second thing I want to bring up here is that people are calling me and talking about the liquidation of the family's children's homes. So please answer in writing if you have such problems. You're talking about 500+ here all the time, about these benefits. I just wanted to say again that these benefits don't have revalorisation. So it's still 500+, and the prices go up and it stops having any value. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just think about it and calm down the people who are worried that they're gonna be in trouble. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u416	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Hartwich, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Because PiS is constantly bragging, and at the beginning of this discussion he bragged about how 500+ helps families in Poland, I will help PiS boast about providing 500+ for people with disabilities. And all the other pros for them. So 500+ for people with disabilities, as the only social group, the PiS gives on the basis of an income criterion. In order to humiliate this social group even more, 500 PLN according to this criterion is included in social, monetary and non-monetary assistance. In this regard, I would like to point out: everyone who has healthy children does not have 500+ social support included. The next thing you know, it's 300 plus. Unfortunately, not for people with disabilities who even participate in WTZs. Tourist voucher - not for people with disabilities, it just doesn't belong. We still hear that PiS is dreaming of stealing from their parents (the bell) from the care provision. With care - when a parent has to give up his job for care. Because you don't have money in your wallet to add to a miserable pension of PLN 1250 to a person unable to exist alone. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u418	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u419	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum we read that this is to optimize 500+ payout support. Not only does it seem like it's going to be the exact opposite. Just go back a few months, by 2020, when, here in this Chamber, we decided to help entrepreneurs during the pandemic, including. voting out parking benefits and exemption from contributions, and when the government without imagination ordered this task, among others. officials of the Social Insurance Institution. What happened? In fact, officials worked for 10 and 12 hours, and by day people were deprived of their means of life when it comes to sickness and maternity benefits. It is impossible to increase tasks. At the moment, it's 12 grand. people; suddenly this is to be done by the Social Insurance Institution, which is already maximized today. It's not as simple as today (the bell) at the Ministry of Health that you buy without checking. Even if someone embezzles money, it's neither wanted nor accounted for. Well, every application must be thoroughly checked. The proposal sometimes needs to be completed and these workers do so after hours. And the last sentence. What I'm trying to say is that this idea of buying some kind of program again outside of a multimillion-dollar bid, it's some kind of psychic. This means that the PiS government no longer uses the Public Procurement Act. This must all be outside the Public Procurement Act. Is another arms dealer going to get rich on a computer program? I want to be clear... Mr President, we have to go. ...that, of course, this program and these purchases will be controlled. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[But with Toothless? Is she gonna be honest?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u420	Thank you very much. I urge you, sir, you have something to say, so come in. [[I already told you. I already volunteered.]] You know you're not making sense. Thank you for understanding. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u421	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The PiS government is releasing over 11,000 today. people all over the country. Minister, aren't you so embarrassed? You usually say you're protecting your employees, you care about people, but this law is ruthlessly slowing down about 11,000. people all over the country. And the question is, should this be the case with a government that says that it cares about people? Is slowing down without any rules, without any other shields, an expression of the concern of this government for people? Minister, please come here and tell people that without any mode, without any reflection, without any protective mechanisms, the PiS government is releasing a dozen thousand people across the country today, because that's what this bill will cost. And the second thing I want to ask you is the solvency of local governments. Have you even considered how many local authorities will have to take drastic measures regarding restrictions and the introduction of corrective programmes because of this one decision? How many people won't have new sidewalks, new roads? How many schools aren't there gonna be? How many kindergartens and kindergartens will not be renovated simply because this one decision deprives the local government of financial liquidity? How can this be done by a government that says that it cares about Poland. Is this concern for Poland? [[$12,000. People on...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u422	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After 8 years of anti-social governance of the Civic Platform and PSL program 500+ restored dignity to Polish families. [[Get down!]] But there are two basic threats to the 500+ program today. The first threat is Donald Tusk, the second is the European Union. [[Voice from the hall: And for Poles too?]] The victory of Donald Tusk would absolutely mean the elimination of 500+, of which there is no doubt. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie, don't lie! Liar!]] Fortunately, we will win this election with Donald Tusk, with Sterczewski, with Ionski, with Szczerba. [[Voice from the Senate.]] On the other hand, as far as the European Union is concerned... Excuse me, sir. Hello, sir, I apologize, I will extend your time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have paid very good attention to Mr Law and Justice. But this is a seym... [[The voice from the hall: But it lies and insults.]] Okay, but you can say that outside the room. [[The voice from the room: Liar!]] But do you really think this is... [[Voice from the room: Turn off the microphone.]] Do you really think it's a good standard to talk to someone, turn off their microphone, liar? This isn't the room. [[But he's lying.]] [[Voice from the room: Freedom of speech.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be reasonable. May I continue, Marshal? You're welcome, sir. I'm used to it, Mr. Marshal, that the Civic Platform is a party of censorship, hey, hatred, language of contempt... [[But you were in it?]] Good. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, But I would like to tell you warmly that today in the European Parliament you voted against Polish sovereignty, for the primacy of EU law over the Polish constitution. And this is also very important for the 500+ programme, because today it is an anti-social EU policy, especially in the context of energy prices and heat prices, which hits the purchasing power of the 500+ programme. As of 1 January 2022, millions of Poles will receive an increase in energy prices by 20%. [[Voice from the room: It was supposed to be gone, it wasn't supposed to be.]] And this is the fault of the European Union, which Donald Tusk and the Civic Platform support so much. As Solidarna Polska and the camp of the United Right, we will do everything we can to stop these increases. And you will learn to be loyal to the Republic of Brussels. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: Stop it!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u424	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Rosa, Parliamentary Club, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u425	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The threat to Poles and Poles is my previous speaker. My previous speaker and others like him, who threaten the Polish cause of the state, the presence in the European Union. This is a matter of our security, our right to be, not only economic security, but also international security. We are at risk for the anti-vaccine policy that you are leading, Mr President, for our health and for our lives. This is dangerous for Poles and Poles, sir. [[I've been vaccinated.]] And it is very good that the European Union is telling you: no, you cannot violate the rule of law. It is good that the European Union tells you that free media is important because these are the foundations of our democracy, which you have been ignoring for years. Minister! The employee question. First of all, about ZUS employees who threaten to strike, not to do their jobs. Will they still be able to process further duties with this excess of responsibilities? Secondly, local government employees, Minister. What about these (the bell), is estimated to be a dozen thousand local workers who may lose their jobs? And thirdly, why, apart from the public tender, should it be financed, for PLN 50 million, is today the state at the committee meeting underlined the 500+ settlement programme? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u426	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kalet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u427	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First, I will refer to the words that Mrs Mucha, who was absent, said that there was something like the PiS state in Poland. If we accept this rhetoric, what am I supposed to say? That you live in the State of Holownia, the province of Mucha? After all, this is absurd, what you say, what level you have led this discussion to. On the other hand, there is one thing about the very essence of our discussion today. Ladies and gentlemen, since when have you become such advocates of the 500+ program, since you've been calling him that, you're saying something's going on with him? First of all, consider Polish families, behind Polish children, for this program to improve in such a formula, so that it is even better, and not on the basis that you are criticizing something that is absolutely no threat at the moment. The essence of this program is that it is stable, so that the funds are paid to Polish families, Polish children. However, it is not as you say so far that this is something that is a burden for us. Remember Tusk's words. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Get out of the way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u428	Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? There's no envoy. Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? [[I'm here.]] Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u429	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What is the real reason for transferring 500+ program service from local governments to ZUS? What's the reason you're not talking about in public? It's illogical. After all, it is the local government that has been involved in social aid for decades, after all, it is the local government that is closest to the citizens, after all it is the employees of the local government who have a thorough understanding in this matter. A few years ago, when tasks were handed over for the operation of the 500+ programme to local governments, the rulers, the mayors, the presidents had to organize themselves immediately, hire people, organize the operation of the programme. Today you say, "Enough, fire a dozen thousand workers, because we have another idea for this program. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In my opinion, this is another element of this government's anti-government policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u430	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Barbara Socha. I ask you to take your stand, answer me, and give me everything you want to say.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u431	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'll try to answer all the questions completely. And those repeated repeatedly, and those less repeated. I'll start over. The 500+ family programme introduced almost 6 years ago was at the beginning of the social and universal programme in the sense that the benefit was paid for each second and subsequent child. For the first child, the income criterion was applied. After a few years, the social element related to the income criterion was abolished. Today it is a universal benefit, a universal benefit, a benefit provided for every child in Poland. Therefore, it is a very simple provision in service, very simple in the field of verification of persons entitled to this benefit, because it is enough to check in the PESEL database. After a few years of experience, we pay attention to the costs of operating this system, which in today's shape of this system are invaluable. This is demonstrated by the fact that, according to the impact assessment of this regulation, today presented, the savings related to the change we are proposing are more than PLN 3 billion in the perspective of the decade. This is a serious amount for us and we believe it is worth changing the scope or way of operating this benefit without loss to the beneficiaries. I stress once again that there are no changes in the payment of transfers of these benefits to families with children. Of course, the form changes. This form has already been, you can say, worked over and some processes by digitization have been accelerated in relation to the pandemic. This is, perhaps, the only positive side of the pandemic. We have checked how this works on several different examples, such as: tourist voucher, solidarity allowance, today's 300+ programme. In none of these cases there were any technical, organisational problems preventing such programmes from being implemented in this way, so we decided as a government that we also wanted to continue with the payment of benefits 500+, which would allow us, as I said, to save very specific measures. As far as local governments are concerned, I, and Minister Skuz, who spoke yesterday and today will probably repeat that these changes do not affect the credit standing of local governments. That's a lie. It's just that. As far as local workers are concerned, today there are several thousand people in Poland who are involved in the service of this benefit. These are not social workers who work with families who assess the family situation, educational capacity. These are officials in municipalities and they are carrying out these tasks today on the same basis as the Social Security Office. [[But they're gonna get fired?]] On the other hand, the impact assessment and the financial assumptions of this change take into account all the costs associated with the clearances provided for by the Labour Code for local workers... [[For parole, for parole.]] ... if, of course, they are fired. Because there are many signals that, of course, not all of us, I think that a minority of those you are talking about can really lose their jobs. I would like to remind you that these people are not only involved in providing 500+ services, but also in all other programs, other tasks and their work will largely continue to be needed in local governments. With regard to digital exclusion and issues related to access to the Internet, access to devices, today the situation appears to be that under the programme that works, the 300+ programme, entitled to benefit from this title, there are about 4400 thousand. children. At the beginning of September we already had 4200 thousand. applications, i.e. about 250 and 260 thousand. more than at the same time in the previous year. It can be concluded from this that this way of applying is not an obstacle for parents to apply for this benefit, on the contrary, it makes this situation easier. This does not mean that we do not see some possible difficulties in submitting these proposals. Therefore, in ZUS facilities as well as in all other places with which ZUS signs agreements - as it did in the case of the 300+ programme - any person who has a problem with submitting an application will receive appropriate assistance. Let me remind you that today it is KRUS and Poczta Polska. I've already talked about savings, compensation for local governments. I think one of your messengers mentioned a failure in the program's operation. Good start. That's exactly what's absolutely not true. There's no such problem. This program, like I said, shows that the ZUS is capable of doing this. This is automation, ladies and gentlemen, that ZUS does not employ so many employees, it is not necessary, because more than 99% applications shall be verified automatically without the participation of a ZUS employee. Today, there are about 30 people working in the branch of the Białystok Social Insurance Institution. In a similar way 500+ will be provided, there will also be dozens of people, but I do not know whether in one or several locations, because the ZUS will decide how best to organize it. On the issue of the IT system, there was a longer discussion today at the committee meeting. This morning there were representatives of the Management Board of the Social Security Office. This is a question, ladies and gentlemen, of a certain architecture of information systems, which the employees or the Management Board of ZUS could best say about here. We know this isn't building any new system. The ZUS IT system is very developed, and what is needed is a certain extension of this system, which today supports the good start program. There is absolutely no big purchase of new IT systems here. Of course, according to what was said, the funds were earmarked for this. The cost of service by the ZUS compared to today's costs is about ten times lower and these are the savings I mentioned at the beginning. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on my personal conviction of the most damaging one that came to this discussion today. I don't see him in the House any more. I don't think he's interested in the answer. Mr Sosnierz referred to the programme as "Family of 500+..." child support for other people's children. I understand that Mr Sosnierz as a good economist with outstanding economic education - I think that many of us do not have such education - knows very well what he is talking about. Oh, it's great that you showed up. On the other hand, this statement of alimony on other people's children shows a lack of basic economic knowledge, because what was obvious to us - it can be said - in all the history of humanity, i.e. the surrogacy of generations, is not taken into account and absolutely this statement proves it. Today we have this situation in the world - I am not talking about Poland, I am talking about Europe as a whole and not just Europe - that we have a problem with generation replacement. This means that the absence of future generations will affect us as a whole society, not each of us, not individuals, not those who have children, or those who do not have children, not those who have retired, or those who have not postponed, will touch us all as a society. Even putting down huge pension funds and taking care of ourselves - as the Member said: about your children or about your family - does not secure us for the future. For example, in order to spend even on basic services, you need people who will provide these services and produce goods. It is a very big mistake not to take into account this basic assumption, which is precisely this unobvious replacement or the follow-up of generations. It contributes to such an escalation of discussion, public debate in Poland, which leads to a misunderstanding of this fact, and that is why I regard this statement as the most harmful of all that I have heard here today. The 500+ family programme is not alimony for other people's children. It's a family transfer program, very common in the world. We're not the first or the only country to have a show like this. I am proud of this policy that the government is leading in this area in supporting families, because it gives us the opportunity to reverse this negative trend, which is, of course, very difficult. It is well known that one instrument does not change policy and certainly complex demographic phenomena. On the other hand, in order for our policy as a whole government and every next one that comes after us to be effective and consistent, we need to build a certain social awareness, and this kind of expression is going in the opposite direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u432	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. [[Me with a corrigendum.]] If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[I'm in corrigendum mode.]] Thank you very much. The right committees... [[I was mentioned.]] Sir, but there's a minister, so let's... There's the minister, please... [[Voice from the hall: But you can talk to the Minister...]] I've finished my point. Excuse me, sir. There's the minister. You can come. [[But the corrigendum would like it to go...]] The competent committees submitted a report on the government draft law on the support of local government units in connection with the Polish Load Program, print no 1576. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law on the support of local government units in connection with the Polish Load Programme (prints no. 1531 and 1576). I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Ławniczak to submit a report to the committee. I would like to ask you very kindly to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental bill amending the law on the income of local government units and certain other laws. These are 1531 and 1576 prints. I will immediately point out that print project 1531 was the subject of the committee's work yesterday when the first reading of the project took place. He had another title at the time, namely: a draft law on the support of local government units in connection with the Polish Lad Programme. At today's meeting, the committee changed the title of this draft law, and it now has another title, which I quoted at the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill is related to the implementation of the Polish Lad program. The current system of finances of local government units has been in operation for 17 years. In connection with the tax reform, which will be carried out by the Sejm and which will leave more money in pockets about 90% society, there is also a need to secure the finances of local government units. The guidelines that set out the draft law are primarily the support of local authorities in the framework of general subsidies, namely the modernisation of the fiscal rules of local government units, which aim to make them more flexible, but at the same time to improve the sustainability of the finances of local government units by reducing the exposure of these finances to the economic economy, while ensuring the sustainable stability of the vast majority of local governments, especially the poorer ones. I want to give you an example here. He was not part of the discussion at our committee meeting, but this is a historical example of the recent past, when we were dealing with, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis related to the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers in 2008. We were also dealing with the public finance crisis in Poland in 2009 and 2010. I was a self-government officer back then. As income from PIT and CIT decreased in 2009 by around 5 and 5.5% compared to 2008 depending on the different categories of local authorities, in 2010 compared to 2009 by a further 4,5% , in sum, over these 2 years, PIT and CIT tax revenues of local governments have decreased by around 10%. At that time, there was no aid response from the government to 2900 of all local governments in Poland in the municipal, district and voivodeship degrees. Ten years later, we were dealing with an outbreak of COVID. We were worried that this would be a year for public finances, including local government finances, in March and April 2020. It turned out that further months, from May after the end of the year, resulted in significant compensation for these revenues and after the RIO's report on the financial situation of local government units for 2020 we can safely conclude that PIT and CIT revenues decreased by 1% over the whole year 2020, and yet the government came out with an initiative of aid to local authorities in the form of three tranches, a total of PLN 12 billion, of which the first tranche, in the amount of half of this, i.e. PLN 6 billion, in an algorithmic form, and the remaining two tranches in the form of a competition. Therefore, such practices, which are taking place, and sudden fluctuations in growth, can cause very large perturbations in the finances of local government units. This law, through safeguards, through various security mechanisms, which I will not talk about, may be addressed in detail by the Minister, also takes this into account. This is at the same time to ensure that the investment potential of local government units is strengthened - I am about to develop this issue - and also to provide regional governments with the income necessary to carry out public tasks, as some of the existing provisions adopted in 2003 expire at the end of December 2021 and we have the opportunity to introduce permanent solutions. As for concrete solutions, this is the introduction of a income rule ensuring the long-term sustainability of local government finances. I already told you that. This is also the introduction of a completely new part to the general subsidy, namely the development part, as well as the basis of the corrective and equalisation mechanism on the current impact from PIT and CIT. Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Public Finances, following their first reading and examination of the project, together with the amendments, request the adoption by the High Sejm of the proposed bill. I would just like to add that amendments have also been tabled and that the amendments tabled by the opposition Members will also be voted as a final vote on minority proposals. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u434	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Come on in... I'm about to find out who, because I don't see it. Oh, it's already displayed. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u435	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice strongly supports the draft law under the new title of amending the law on the financing of local government units, while in fact in its original form the name of this project was more expressing the ideas and purpose of this law, namely the aid to local government units connected with the implementation of the Polish Government. Polish Load is a new tax law that will revolutionize for all citizens. I would like to remind you that it introduces a tax-free amount of 30 thousand, so it de facto introduces the lowest pensions without tax, not only the lowest, because in total up to 2,5 thousand. gross zloty, so this is the vast majority of pensions. These lowest salaries will also be subject to a very symbolic rate of PIT. By force such beneficial changes for taxpayers, for citizens, make the impact of the PIT tax a little less. However, it is worth recalling what self-government is. Self-government is a community of inhabitants, so we should remember that the richer the richer the inhabitants of a given local government are, the richer and richer the local government is. This is something that we completely forget about in this discussion, as if we were taking away the functions of self-government, the essence of self-government from the inhabitants, from meeting their needs, from what the government is really responsible for and to whom it is to serve. After discussions at committee meetings, it was felt that maybe the most important ones were local government officials - not the need for residents. The needs of residents in the Polish Łódź are secured in a way that was much better than in previous years, because Polish Ład and the support of local authorities for the needs of local residents are among others. there is not only this law that compensates for the losses in the PIT tax, but also these are investment subsidies. I will remind you that in 2020 alone there were three tranches so-called. COVID aid, of course for specific investments, but there was also a tranche of more than PLN 6 billion distributed in an algorithmic manner, thus directly supplementing the lack of funding in local governments directly to specific investments according to what the local government planned. This law also proposes to supplement the income from the share of PIT and CIT to the level of what the local government has planned, and even if we add further coefficients, it is much more. In this law there is also an extremely important provision that even if these losses were much larger than we expect, they may be deeper for some local governments, it also guarantees the level at least as in the previous year. Thus, despite the high costs of introducing the Polish Load, despite the very significant measures that will remain in taxpayers' pockets, will remain in the pockets of citizens, but also residents of a particular government, the Polish government does not leave the local government completely without any help, as it has sometimes been, different in different years, only compensates, at least to the level which the local government planned. So this law is indeed worthy of support, it is, I would say, even an event, because I did not meet such laws - and the President also mentioned it - in the case of which the losses in local income were compensated by the state budget. Thus, in a natural way, the Law and Justice Club strongly supports this law. I was talking about the fact that if the Polish Load is to be complete, it should be with this bill. I am very pleased that this law is being examined, that it has such a dimension, has a dimension of responsible, intelligent policy, also care for the local government, for the financial security of the local government. So I clearly declare that the Law and Justice Club will be very happy to support this bill in the version (The Bell) prepared by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u436	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jack Protas, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u437	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will refer to the draft law on amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units and some other laws, which actually last night and today in the mornings had a propaganda title: about the support of local government units in connection with the Polish Ład Programme. Unfortunately, I must say that it is not for the first time an extremely important law, which determines the financing, and consequently the functioning of Polish local governments, was written on the knee and in a hurry. The work of the Ministry of Finance on the new Finance Act expected by the local authorities did not work, and the number of legislative amendments tabled in committees by the Legislative Office of the Sejm is alarming. Unfortunately, we've gotten used to it. But the most disturbing thing is that you still don't understand the nature of the problem. Polish self-governments, generating 66% of investments in the public sector and responsible for the vast part of services for residents, for the vast majority of services for residents, do not expect another statutory prosthetic support for their growing financial condition, but fair, comprehensive and simple solutions to ensure their stable own income. [[Applause]] Your proposals further complicate and obscure the system of financing local tasks and make it dependent on arbitrary decisions of the governing authorities. That's really not the point. Self-governments have the right to participate in economic growth - yes, sir, the more a member of the community earns, the more resources there should be left to manage in this community, it is indeed so - because they also bear the increasing costs of rising wages, electricity prices, fuel, etc. Therefore, any loss in their income should be supplemented systematically by an increase in the share of PIT and CIT income. It is also important to seriously consider the system of reimbursement to local authorities of their VAT for investments and purchases which are made for the benefit of all of us. Annually, the amount of VAT paid by local authorities is around PLN 8 billion. Therefore, during the joint meeting of committees, we proposed appropriate, meaningful, substantive amendments that meet the expectations and needs of local governments in a fair and systematic manner. We repeat them at second reading. We propose to increase the amount of PLN 8 billion as a one-off compensation to the sum of PLN 12 399 million, [[Applause]] i.e. the amount of losses incurred by local government units between 2019 and 2021 as a consequence of the introduction of tax laws of August 2019 and November 2020. Secondly, we propose to increase the share of JST in PIT tax, which will compensate for the reduction of their income in the following years as a result of the introduction of the Polish Deal. These proposals, calculated reliably on the basis of data from the Ministry of Finance, provide: 50,1% PIT for municipalities, 14,3% for powiats and 2,1% for voivodships. These are honest and fair proposals. We therefore hope that all parliamentarians, for whom the public good is most important, will support these amendments, which I am putting on your hands, Mr Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u438	Thank you, sir. I'll pass it on. I invite Mrs Monica Falej, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u439	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Yesterday, when presenting the position of the club Lewis regarding the draft law on the support of local government units in connection with the Polish Load Programme - now the name is changed - I said that as a Left we will be behind every simple and safe solution for local governments. We do not want local governments to lose either a zloty, so that they can be guaranteed full compensation of losses permanently, not once. I said that in the case of the bill under consideration as the Left Club, we are in favour of further work on its content - and what is next, we will see. And today we saw it. What happened at the joint meeting of the Commission: Public Finance and Local Government and Regional Policy is the humiliation of local governments. As an opposition, we want to save self-government Poland from the depletion of local budgets and safeguard the continuity of finances of municipalities, powiats and voivodships. We voted on an amendment in committee to increase the revenue of the local government in connection with the Polish Load programme. What you have done, Mr PiS, has exceeded one of the wildest expectations, you have filed and pushed the motion to withdraw your work to the state before it was considered. It is a clear signal that you want to make local governments dependent on the central authorities and fully control their obedience. Once again, you're going to deny the votes. The amendment providing compensation to local governments of PLN 12 billion per year would to a large extent secure local investment, fixed expenditure of municipalities, powiats and voivodships. Thus, it was intended to eliminate the negative effects of the Polish Order, i.e. your actions. Mrs. Marshal! You might actually be proud of yourself right now. Your feedback at the President's request has become the norm, and a new word has been sent to the Polish dictionary today by the behaviour of the PiS Members: Whiting. If anyone asks for its meaning, I serve as a definition. Whiting is a denial of regulations, a cynical political game aimed at pushing its way through at all costs. And that's what you did today. [[Voice from the room: The author will give it to you.]] [[Voice from the room: Author.]] [[The voice from the room: But you're lying.]] Congratulations, Marshal. You're in history. Polish Government for local governments is the end of their self-government, independence and development of local communities. As for the project itself, it should have the title: the Act on partial surrender of what you took from local governments, or the Act on partial compensation for the losses of local governments as a result of the PiS government. As a Left, we fight to the end. Despite such an outrageous process in committees on behalf of the Left Club, I propose an amendment which gives us the hope of concrete measures for local governments, so that residents and residents have a chance at schools, crèches, community housing, hospitals or social assistance centres, so that there is no increase in ticket prices, so that the local authorities have the means to freely have the courage to take care of the high level of public services. Mr. Marshal! I am making amendments, and I hope that you will lean on this and give opportunities to residents of the local government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u440	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u441	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Koalicja Polska - PSL Club, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present for the second time the position of the club regarding the draft law on the support of local government units in connection with the Polish Load Programme, as amended after today's meeting of the local government committee and the finance commission, as a title: on the amendment of the law on income of local government units, Parliamentary printing No. 1531 and commission printing No. 1576. The objective of the project set out in the submission highlights the possibility of creating optimal conditions for local authorities to conduct their financial economy. It is a proud record, but it puts into question the possibility of equal development for all units of local government. Many local corporations raise serious concerns about the lack of compensation for current income losses and the impossibility of increasing their participation in PIT and CIT taxes. Increasing inflation, rising electricity prices, gas prices, the burden on new tasks for which financial compensation does not go hand in hand - all this raises concerns in local governments about the future of their development and the possibility of improving the quality of life of their residents. Local governments want to make investments, but they wonder whether even the investment subsidy set out in the draft law, which will be a property income, will complement the losses in the income from PIT tax, which is a reduction in current income. These concerns are further aggravated by another draft law, which is contained in print No 1532 and which concerns the amendment of the Act on income tax on natural and legal persons. According to the calculations of the Ministry of Finance, the central budget will gain about PLN 27 billion in 10 years, while local government will lose around 1/4 of the current income from participation in PIT tax. This amounts to about PLN 150 billion. The need to compensate for losses in the years 2019 to 2021 is about PLN 12.4 billion. Therefore, support under Draft Print Act No 1531 by an amount of 47.6 billion is not sufficient. The local government has long been demanding the participation of local authorities in the VAT impact. In addition, local authorities pay about PLN 7.8 billion of investment tax annually to the state budget, but they could partially or completely recover it, thus strengthening their budgets and allocating them for further investments, e.g. for the construction of nursery, kindergarten and roads. High Izbo! The fear of the loss of liquidity by local governments when the net operating surplus falls below zero, and the lack of the possibility of financing current expenditure should not provoke condemnation, but should mobilise to support and increase investment activity, because these are processes which, after all, stimulate the entire country economically. The principle of subsidiarity and decentralisation, the independence of local self-government units in deciding to carry out their own tasks and shape local and regional development is guiding all those who understand the great achievement of democratic transformation in building social trust, the importance of the fundamental role of self-government in the country's territorial system. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're making amendments on behalf of the club. We'll be watching very closely what happens to them. Let me just mention that these amendments will concern the article. 8. The aim is to increase resources for local authorities from the state budget of 12.4 billion in addition to general subsidies. It will also include amendments to the amount of the annual income of the municipality, district and voivodship for participation in income tax on individuals, which may not be less than in the year preceding the base year. High Izbo! Your position on this bill, allow us to vote. As I said, we will observe very closely what will happen to our amendments. If that is possible, I ask for their support, because many people in this Chamber, Members and Members of Parliament, come from local governments. All those who are concerned about the welfare of local governments should be very careful and very careful about these amendments. Thank you very much, Marshal, and I am handing over the amendments to my own hands. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u442	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation. [[The voice from the hall:...with Mr. Braun, because he seems to be a decent and serious man.]] Mr Dziambor, thank you for these comments, but let us listen to Mr Dziambor on the matter of self-government, because he is a decent and serious man. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u443	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This morning I was in Wołomina, we had a press conference there on what Wołomin schooling looks like, what is the satisfaction of the students, parents from the schools in Wołomin compared to Warsaw schools. It was also discussed that the students of Wołomia often choose Warsaw schools, stating that Warsaw is simply better. But not about this. I heard there that, even recently, the education subsidy, that part of the subsidy that you are providing to the local government, for educational subsidies under the obligation to maintain schools, which, as we know, are free of charge and thus guaranteed constitutionally, so far, some time ago covered 70 Needs. This year it's only 50%. I remember a year ago at the school board meeting... [[Bullshit, bullshit.]] Mr President, you're not getting away with this. I'll be right with you. I remember a year ago, at the meeting of the education committee, local government officials came to talk about how the PiS state was visiting local governments, among others. reducing this subsidy, or actually not increasing it, even though costs are rising. Then the Vice-President of the Education Commission, Mr Dolata of the PiS, said: please, but schools are self-government. The fact that we're even throwing something in is our good will. We couldn't throw anything in. And that's pretty much your approach to what self-governments look like. This new shaft you're putting in because that's what you should call it, not any New Deal... [[Mr President, I would like you to count on your words.]] ...this is obviously about, in the field of self-government, jumping on self-governments, against self-governments that you don't like so much, against the self-governments that you fight against, because there you have no power, against self-governments that do not belong to you in most big cities. These are self-governments where people just don't want you. [[They want you, they want you.]] I'm not surprised that the political struggle is like this with you and that your political decisions are like this. I would also like to say, Mr President, that you have made such a very nice sentence: local governments are gaining, and that is why we are introducing mechanisms for compensation for losses. It sounded very interesting, it should go to the history of parliamentarianism, just like Minister Warchoł, who said yesterday that the anti-corruption bill will only work in two years, because maintaining a job for your friends and children, and your councillors, and Members, it is a struggle to maintain acquired rights. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! You're jumping local governments. New Deal is not a New Deal. It's a new jackpot. It's your jackpot. We'll vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Arthur, don't talk like a platform.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u444	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. Please, sir. Hi.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u445	Dear Marshal, Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! We're being told that we're gonna get money to invest in exchange for the fact that we're gonna be taken away from us for the city's current operation. This is a quote from President Jelenia Góra of Mr. George Luzniak. It's like someone's offering us money to build a theater, and in return, they're taking our money to keep the theater that already exists. So we're actually gonna have two theaters, but none of them are gonna work. [[Voice from the room: It's true.]] You take away from local governments, slightly counting 10 billion zlotys a year, you give them about 8 billion dollars, and you promise to get 3.5 billion dollars in the years to come. I don't know how you're getting local government support out of this bill. But your conscience is clear because you've changed the title of this bill. In addition, you are quite perfectly introducing a mechanism in which special additional bonuses added to development grants will depend on property expenses. This is a very narrow understanding of investment. Today you have to think about both investment in fixed assets and in people. But the real scandal is what you did today at the joint meeting of the Commission: Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. There, on behalf of the Polish 2050 wheel, I tabled an amendment which really increased the revenue of local governments by increasing the share of PIT tax. This amendment has passed. It was voted out by the joint committees. But you have no honor. You can't lose. You've brought this amendment into space. Balancing at the border of law, you have led to a situation in which the amendment voted twice was voted, but already when you called your participants in these two committees. Your loss at this point would mean a victory for Polish local governments. But you can't afford to be decent for once. With all my heart, I wish this kind of law-warming would take revenge on you. I hope the voters don't forget this. Conscience isn't rubber. I hope this situation tonight is going to be dreaming at night. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Moralizing. Absolutely inappropriate, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u446	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. I'd like to say what time we're in. There are 36 requests to ask questions. I'm closing the list unless one of you would like to join us right now. If not, don't blame me. I'm closing the list because we announced an hour break. 19.45. Therefore, I will ask you for discipline and also for a slightly shorter speech from the Minister. Here we go. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. Take an example from your Member, he wants to help us run. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u447	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law on the support of local government units in connection with the Polish Load Programme can be an important flywheel of the economy. The introduction of the legal basis for the transfer of additional resources to local authorities from the state budget in 2021, in addition to general subsidies, is a good direction. It is important that local governments devote more and more resources to innovation and to the development of individual investment. The allocation of funds per unit will take into account, in addition to the amount of income from the share in PIT's revenues planned for 2022, in addition to the amount of income from the share in the proceeds planned for 2022, also the level of their wealth established for 2022. The proposed solution with the amendment of the Article. 242 of the Public Finance Act by allowing the possibility of exceeding the principle of sustainable budget of current parts (Ringtone) in the financial year in question... We're done here. [[I'd have cut it five seconds ago.]] ...gives more opportunities for local governments. Are there calculations of how this will affect the financial situation of local governments? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u448	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is Polish Load part of the hybrid war government with local governments, [[Applause]] A proverbial nail to a coffin for small homelands? Support for local authorities proposed in the Act is a drop in the sea of needs. According to Fitch, urban operating surpluses will fall on average by 65% in 2022 and are likely to be insufficient to cover planned debt management. In the Agency's opinion, the loss of revenue in the years 2022 to 2031 will amount to over PLN 144 billion. Below I will present the hard data that I have courtesy of the officials of the Częstochowa Town Hall. [[Voice from the room: Oh, but believable!]] The financial consequences of disorder - PLN 259 million, a reduction in income by more than 20%. The final of the disorder - the risk of liquidity loss (the bell) and the inability to adopt the budget for Częstochowa and many local governments for 2022. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u450	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. [[The stadium could be beautiful in Częstochowa.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u451	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, These solutions from the so-called. The Polish Order, the political programme of Law and Justice, leads to a reduction in the development of local communities. After 2023, the share of local governments in PIT will fall by 20%, over 11 billion. There is a threat - as the Member has just said - of the loss of liquidity of many local governments. We must also remember that the lack of resources in local governments will mean the search for funds for the current functioning, the ongoing maintenance of, for example, a nursery, a children's club, public transport, a hothouse. All of this will unfortunately result in a wave of increases for citizens. The ones you're telling now that you're giving them a tax-free amount will eat inflation (the bell) and this will be the result of the Polish Government as far as local governments are concerned. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u452	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I would like to thank the rapporteur. Mr Łavniczak mentioned very interesting and I think that important information is important for the discussion in this House. As long as after the fall of Lehman Brothers, tax revenues fell, among others. Local governments? These revenues dropped by 5 in one year, and by almost 5 in the second year, because 4 with a comma. This shows what was the economic situation at the time, what was unemployment. We often refer to these times, and I think this will be a classic example of how the truth comes out after many years. I thank you for this, because it is very, so to speak, informative for our debate, often here in the Chamber, what the conditions were then. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, municipalities and voivodships have investment potential, and the county? After all, the county has very limited investment resources. How is he supposed to reach for that bonus when real investment funds are really just road subsidies? At the moment (the bell) have a huge problem with the tight funding of social services homes. Why? Because the municipalities are potentially keeping those who can participate in social assistance homes. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[He was wrong.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u454	Thank you very much. I cordially invite Mr Jakub Kulesza, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u455	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland there is no self-government, there are no local governments, it is only a prosthesis. In fact, local authorities must carry out specific tasks commissioned by the administrative headquarters, not go beyond their responsibilities. They've got finance that's going up in practice, because it's the state that determines how much money it's supposed to be. The practice is that you are adding more and more of your own tasks to local governments, responsibilities, that is, what local governments have to do according to your guidelines, which you are developing, and they are getting less and less money for it. Every time there's a big reform, this cock gets turned around because they're gonna be okay. Because you, the state, do not rule in these local governments in most cases. It can allow local governments to impose their own taxes in such a way that local governments at tax level can compete with each other (the bell) while at the same time reducing the level of taxation, i.e. taxes that go to the central bank, because you will certainly waste it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u456	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u457	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! When I look at this bill, it reminds me of a local investment fund. It is a fund that has harmed the inhabitants of many Polish towns, among others. Bielska-Biała, Cieszyna, Ustronia, Vistula, Czechowice-Dziedzic. The inhabitants of these cities were victimized because these funds were divided not according to some algorithm that would represent some value, but upon consideration. Let me remind you that experts have not spent even 0.5 seconds evaluating these proposals, which allows us to conclude that it was purely political business. You simply equipped your faithful officers with these resources. What is self-government? Self-government is the people. And today, when you're pulling PLN 144 billion from Poles' pockets again, you're not stealing from the local authorities, you're taking all the locals out of the pocket. Minister! I assume you've been analyzing all this, that you've been analyzing which town will suffer as much as possible. I wanted to ask: Is there already this black list of local governments (the bell) in which Commissioners will be installed because of financial collapse through Law and Justice and Resumption? Because that's the way it's gonna be, that's for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u458	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[Law and Justice and Resump.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u459	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Polish Load is about PLN 16.5 billion a year more money in Polish wallets. It will gain nearly 18 million of our citizens. Almost 9 million Poles will stop paying PIT tax. Therefore, in order to mitigate the losses in government income due to tax write-offs of PIT and CIT, the government has prepared a law on which we are currently proceeding. I am glad that this law shows that sustainable development is the fundamental paradigm of the government of the United Right, not as it was in the governments of our predecessors, where the model of polarisation and diffusion... [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] ...was a denial of the first fundamental truth of the European concept of sustainable development of all regions of the European Union and most affected local governments. Only big cities were growing. [[That's bullshit.]] In contrast, cities such as: The radoms were losing on this model of yours. [[Voice from the room: Not that big.]] [[Radom is a big city.]] You can laugh, gentlemen, but just compare. This law will implement a solidarity concept. [[Voice from the Chamber: What do you say, Member?]] Which is why I have a question about the new part of the general subsidy... Thank you very much. ...so-called. The development part providing permanent support: How will it be calculated? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u460	Thank you. Mr Michał Krawczyk from the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, What would you call someone who's taking away 100 zlotys from the other... [[Voice from the room: Thief.]] ...then he pays 25 zlotys... [[The voice from the hall: My son would say: stealer.]] ...and he says, man, it's okay. [[Voice from the room: Friend.]] [[Voice from the room: Father Rydzyk.]] Because that's exactly how you guys act. Sadly, in such a situation, the very uncensored words come to the mouth. You will take the Polish embankment from local governments PLN 187 billion, you will pay them back with pseudomodotations PLN 47 billion and you will say: enjoy it, local authorities, everything is okay. Well, it's not okay, Minister, it's not okay. In my region, after deduction of your Lublin pseudodotes, only next year will it lose 110 million PLN... [[A voice from the room: No!]] ... Puławy - PLN 10 million, Świdnik - PLN 9 million, Kraśnik and Lubartów - PLN 5 million each. [[Lie!]] These are real losses of local government revenue despite this bill you're introducing. There will be no nursery, no kindergarten, no roads, no playgrounds, no library. [[Voice from the hall: You're robbing local governments.]] So don't tell me you're giving something to the local government by the Ringing Act, just tell them you're just stealing from them. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You're robbing.]] [[You've been stealing from small towns for eight years.]] [[Voice from the hall: And you have been stealing for six years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u462	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u463	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In June this year. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announces the program Mon. Polish Load, which is so perfectly prepared when it comes to local governments, that even today you had to change the name of the law, I do not mention other details. Well, there was a conversation here about a black list of local governments that would fall because they wouldn't have the resources. But, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, I give you my full honor. Yesterday was also about the golden list. I understand that 24 hours was too much and not enough for you to make this golden list and present. I appealed yesterday: show these local governments. Because you said that so many of these local governments are happy that this is an incredible situation at all. [[Voice from the room: Vivature.]] Let's see those local governments. We will organize excursions from other local governments (the bell) so that they can see how they got the money. Because in 2022 there is 8 billion PLN, and then there is 3 billion PLN to be distributed. And this 3 billion is what it is? That's only 4%. all the subsidies, so much money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u464	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u465	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you are so righteous and just, then why are you discriminated against large urban centres such as Radom, Mrs Radom. [[Applause]] [[Suski won't forgive you.]] If the so-called idea comes into force. the upper limit, which corrects the algorithms calculating the subsidy, is that the large city centers will lose on this, because they will get proportionally less than the smaller centres. And second question: Why was this project not publicly consulted? There was time for that. Your crazy five-year plan was announced four months ago. There was time to talk about it in public. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u466	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u467	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform is completely unfamiliar with local governments. [[Voice from the room: You know yourself.]] You guys don't really know how to work in local governments. Rafał Trzaskowski, instead of working, organizes some events, campuses for German money. Mr Jaśkowiak in Poznań is carrying out his rainbow events. [[The voice from the hall: Janusz, this is you with Donald Tusk. Do you want to see it?]] On the other hand, most local governments in Poland are very satisfied with the rule of the United Right, because local governments are finally developing. Talk to Deputy Minister Paweł Chezernaker about how we support the West Pomeranian region. We have a lot of investments in local governments. It was impossible in your day. [[Voice from the hall: Will you eliminate the shipyards?]] Talk to the former Vice President of Radom, Mrs. Anna April. Talk to former self-government officer Mr Norbert Karczmarczyk. Do not talk to your lazy people from the Civic Platform, self-government, who instead of hard work are engaged in propaganda and the implementation of the LGBT agenda. Polish self-governments are developing very well and it hurts you very much that we can rule so effectively. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's why you're taking their money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u468	Thank you very much. Mr Waldy Dzikowski, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill has the character of compensation and should not be called that. This is equal to the losses arising from lower PIT contributions, mainly PITs. Therefore, the simplest way in which it contains elements of stimulating competition, supporting economic, planning, financial and creativity activities in municipalities is to increase the share of PIT and CIT, not the subsidy. The subsidy is a simple, pure, mathematical algorithm in which certain statistical data presented by the CSO are based. It doesn't drive the economy, it doesn't change the thinking of councillors, mayors, and mayors. This effect would increase the share of PIT. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr Kowalski, you know as much about local government as I do about last year's snow. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[I was a self-government officer.]] I think so myself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What condition did you leave...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u470	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u471	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We have just discussed the project of transferring the benefit service 500+ to the Social Insurance Institution. This idea will be lost to local governments and local workers. Now we are debating how to compensate local governments for the solutions provided for in the so-called. Polish Łódź, which will hit the budgetary resources of these local governments. What's the plan? Is it a rule to divide and rule? Maybe it's a plan to take over the cities. Naughty local governments will be offered PiS-owski's management board, polite - grants and grants granted at your discretion. [[Voice from the hall:...no commune.]] Such discretionary chucka takes place in Lubusek. The compensation is intended to cover losses, not be charity, which will not change the dramatic budgetary situation. The Pandemic hit the state and the local governments, and now the state will hit the local governments to kill them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u472	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska, Club Law and Justice. [[Voice from the courtroom:...marshal...]] No, let's go, let's go. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] You're hanging in there. There you go. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: It's not like they're mentioned by name.]] [[The voice from the room: The head is not too thick, but still holding.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u473	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Regional Roads Fund, local investment fund, then Polish Load - no local government government in Poland will say that these are, ladies and gentlemen, programs that do not strengthen local governments. [[Voice from the hall: You're robbing local governments.]] No, we're moving towards sustainable development. [[Voice from the room: Do we know what a steady development is?]] I am happy to drive around Poland and I can see how fast local investment is developing. [[Voice from the room: Uncle Google, I recommend you check what sustainable development is.]] No, sir, these are facts. I have a question for the Minister. Minister, will this bill today strengthen the local governments that need help (the bell), local governments in small towns and villages? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u474	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u475	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A while ago, a failed propagandaist from the PiS tried to say that if you rob local governments, but give them extra money, they'll praise you. This is an outrage. [[Voice from the room: Don't be nervous.]] What's your propaganda like? Before me, the Member spoke about the Self-Government Road Fund and the Local Investment Fund. The second recruitment takes place after a relationship. You can't afford a solution that would be a system solution. 2 billion zlotys for TV is? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] There isn't one for self-government. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] If you say that there is money for citizens in the Polish Lodz, I would like to remind you of an increased health contribution and cost. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[The voice from the hall: It hurts you that people will have money.]] Minister, why didn't you tell the committee today how much government would lose? We figured it out. [[Voice from the room: They won't lose anything.]] Local governments will lose 140 billion PLN - each city. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I can talk about Podkarpacie. The Reich will lose 88 billion PLN... Thank you very much. ...after we've evened it out, it'll be 70. [[Applause]] [[Millions.]] How embarrassing are you? I would like to ask Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Parliamentary Club of the Left. How can you not be ashamed to lie? How can you not be ashamed to steal from local governments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u476	Thank you very much, Member. [[That's right, Krysia, the truth hurts them.]] Mr Adamczyk, please. [[Voice from the hall: People see it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u477	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We know very well that local governments lose one year in a year on educational subsidies. You're declaring that local governments are gaining. Minister, I would like to ask for statistical information concerning the years 2022 to 2025. How many precisely mentioned by me local authorities will receive funds within the framework of the Polish Order? [[Voice from the room: As long as it takes.]] I'm glad, but that's not what I'm asking you. These local governments are: Będzin, Sosnowiec, Dąbrowa Górnicza, Sławków, Czeladź, Bobrów, Mierzęcice, Siewierz, Jaworzno, Zawiercie, Poręba, Łazy, Ogrodzieniec, Pilica, Żarnowiec, Włodowice, Krochice, Irządze, Szczekociny and Psara. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Nowy Sącz doesn't lose.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u478	Thank you. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u479	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We count all very much on the responsibility and consequence of the opposition, including when voting on an increase in the tax-free amount, as well as on the release of pensions from taxation. If you will now vote against, I think that the consequence should also be similar with these laws, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: Consequently.]] The Self-Government Road Fund increased by PLN 4 billion in 2021 by PLN 13 billion from the Local Investment Fund, PLN 20 billion from the first edition of the Investment Fund. [[And for doctors zero, for nurses zero.]] [[Game in the O.R.]] Come on, Marshal, you're welcome. All right, gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: But don't be nervous.]] I have a request for you, sir. Can you come to me, please? Yes. [[You're always a marshal.]] [[Voice from the hall: From the last bench.]] You know what? You're gonna sit here and calm your friend down, okay? [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] Sir, may I have a word with you? You're welcome, thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] You're welcome, sir. [[Voice from the room: Now you have to.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: We're coming for everyone.]] [[In the corner.]] Sir, we're gonna go out like this again, and you're gonna sit here and calm your friend down. [[I can't do this.]] Sir, it's up to me to decide who's doing this. Can we go out like this? Please, sir. I respect you, but don't laugh. [[Voice from the room: I'm not laughing.]] Because I respect you, only whether you're from the PiS, whether you're from the Platform or the Left, that's the Sejm. Understand that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the courtroom: You cannot appoint a marshal.]] This is the Sejm, ladies and gentlemen, and what the Members of the Civic Platform are doing now with Mrs... We really have already witnessed today when the seriousness of this House has been challenged. It can be said that the Member is now following Mr Braun. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are counting on the consequence and that you will vote against lowering taxes for Poles. Minister! I have a short question: What key will be the allocation of funds from subsidies to individual units of local government? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Mr. Wizard is from the PiS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u480	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u481	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The so-called one. Nowy Ład, and really PiS-owski's disorder, will take PLN 323 million from my town in 2022. I would like to ask how much you will give to Łódź in this project. [[A voice from the room: No!]] Mr President said that he knew how much his family or important in his professional career the municipality of Vinnica received, that this is about PLN 1.5 million more. So maybe you know how much the boat's gonna get, too? How much more will the boat get? [[Voice from the room: 800,000. More.]] For example. I wanted to tell you that you are on a straight path to turning Polish local governments into facade self-governments, as in the Polish People's Republic, congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u482	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In your cynical war with local governments, you really hit Poles and Poles. Local governments have taken over more than 90% of institutions that serve the everyday life of Poles and Poles. And the investment funds that are planned in this law, so-called. Public development, investment subsidies do not solve the basic problem of local governments, which is the shortage of current funding to finance current tasks. I would like to remind you that local governments are not allowed to finance current tasks, i.e. running all these institutions for Poles and Poles. The school itself lacks PLN 44 billion, in all municipalities, and not only in large cities. What the Left Club has proposed is the same thing as the 2050 and PO amendment... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, madam. ...is just equalizing losses in current income for current tasks.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u484	Thank you very much. Mr Vladimir Tomaszewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u485	The value of some statements, such as that of Mr Piątkowski, was that Łódź lost hundreds of millions last year, and last year it had half a billion more income. This is the value of your speech. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] These answers would have their value if they could be confirmed by previous action. Why then, when the Polish City Union, local government corporations said that local governments lost 8 billion PLN - remember this action, these marches - you did not give these 8 billion PLN? When were you in charge? Why didn't you apply for a VAT refund? Why? I remember this: President Komorowski's law on cooperation between local governments assumed additional expenditure. The Tusk government's opinion was: no additional resources for local governments, none. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the room: No!]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, it is.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You do not know the history of local government revenue and the financial system of local government. This law creates tax income guarantees because there will be no less tax revenue than a year ago. Few of this, it creates a new source of income (The Bell), which is a very important element of diversification of income sources, the security of the finances of the local government. If you don't know this, please read it. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Exactly, Mr. President, Mr. Lawniczak... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u486	Thank you very much, sir. I can't hear you no more, sir. [[Voice from the room: Time is up.]] [[Voice from the room: It doesn't bother him.]] Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! You're doing a great job of lying. [[Voice from the room: What lies?]] So-called. The Polish Government should strengthen local governments, not weaken them. However, according to the calculations over 10 years, the central budget will gain about PLN 27 billion and the local government will lose around 1/4 of the current income from participation in the PIT tax. A large proportion of municipalities and powiats will not be able to provide their own contribution to projects, investments, for example from European Union funds, which will mean a waste of development opportunities. When are you finally going to understand that the only acceptable form of compensation for the lost revenue of local governments is an adequate increase in their share of tax revenues? When are you finally going to give enough education to local government units so that they don't pay for schools, they don't have to give them huge money? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Stop taking the local government, and they'll be fine by themselves. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: You took it away.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u488	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The second stage of self-government reform was implemented in 1999 and it was so difficult at that time to divide the competences between local governments and the state that it was only in 2004 that the law on the financing of local governments was adopted by the Left. It was so hard. And more or less, a balance of competence and balance for the state has been created. And now you're taking this money a little bit, but you're taking it, which is not a good thing, because you're taking on more and more responsibility. I'll just remind you that full power is full responsibility. Someday somebody's gonna tell you and the voters are gonna charge you for it. Divided state management between local governments and the state is the best solution. Don't ruin this situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You give money to the poorer people at the expense of local governments, but they'll pay for it anyway. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u490	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kalet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u491	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, ladies and gentlemen, we would very much like the opposition to do something like New Deal, so that you can come up with whatever you want, add something from each other, so that we can debate something. [[Voice from the room: Will you vote it?]] Something specific, meaningful, wise. Can't do it. But there's one thing I'd like to say. Because here one of the messengers was gracious to say that there was a new nickname. I, too, would like to talk about the words I heard not so long ago under the beer booths. Well, ladies and gentlemen: Nitrasci - digging, disturbing, touching not your things, dulling, dumbing - talking nonsense about, insulting, acting with illogical thesis and finally waving - rocking in the clouds, not knowing what you're talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: Genius.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u492	Thank you very much. I'm not mean, as you know, but I wanted to ask you what you're doing under those beer booths. [[Voice from the hall: Sir, I listen to Poles.]] Yes, you listen to the Poles. That's interesting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u493	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish Ład is a Polish embankment and, in short, stealing from the money of the inhabitants of our municipalities. Gentlemen, you like to come with checks so much, let's say how many local governments are gonna lose, and so are my local governments. The municipality of Shamotula will lose over PLN 8.5 million next year, my family Pniewy: 3,300 thousand. zł, Wronki: 5800 thousand. PLN, Kaźmierz, small town: 2,400 thousand. zł, Nowy Tomyśl: 8700 thousand. zł., Zbąszyn: 3700 thousand. PLN, Opalenica: over PLN 4 million, Oborniki: almost PLN 10 million, Wolsztyn: over PLN 9 million. [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen. You want to de facto eliminate the investment budgets of local governments, and actually, thanks to these budgets, small local companies win tenders and can invest, and people in our small towns have jobs. In the meantime, you want it. It's just to destroy it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u494	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u495	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm a little surprised at the outcome of this discussion, and I want the ruling side to draw attention to one thing. Local governments are also Poland. There's no need to fight local governments because that's not what this is about. [[Voice from the room: We don't fight.]] [[The voice from the hall: Then don't fight.]] I think there should be a serious debate and discussion about how to finance these local governments. This law does not absolutely answer this question, because it does not show how to finance local governments. There's some kind of funding prosthetic coming up again. I have a suspicion... I just read what democratic centralism means. You're going exactly the same way. I didn't know this definition before, but you're going the same way: you have the state and the central government to manage everything. And this is the wrong direction. [[Voice from the room: Chairman.]] I have a question, Minister. You've announced a self-government calculator. So tell me, what are the rules that you're calculating the increases in local government revenue in this calculator because I tried to understand, but I wasn't able to. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I feel like these are some sort of cosmic equations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Even the calculator doesn't...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u496	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u497	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the impression that you are afraid of this money, you are afraid of this investment, because from some Members we hear words that we want to take over local governments that we want to take over large cities. So you realize that in these cities, multimillion-dollar grants will flow to these local governments, multi-million programs for the development of these local governments. [[Voice from the room: I heard that subsidies.]] So, see what the situation is like. You're afraid of money because you're talking about your local governments, which means you're afraid that you're gonna lose your power zones in these local governments. [[Voice from the hall: Where are the grants in this bill?]] Self-governments do not belong to any of you. Self-governments are independent, as the name suggests. As for the Government Local Investment Fund... The State said here that the funds were granted discretionaryly. Meanwhile, please: district proszowicki - 4270 thousand. zł z RFIL for the county managed by the Polish People's Party. [[Lublin: zero.]] There's no discretion. You built this media narrative to humiliate, take away the meaning of these donations and these wonderful programs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Vote for money for Poland. [[Applause]] [[It would be good if you weren't lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u498	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u499	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Self-governments are in a very difficult situation, which unfortunately is getting worse. The draft Income Tax Act, which will be processed tomorrow, will bring the local government to ruin. And tomorrow it will clearly sound, and you agree with it. If PiS wanted to help local governments, he would proceed with projects of laws according to logical order, not according to propaganda criteria - because this project is procedated according to propaganda criteria. After all, losses in the income of local governments due to income tax amount to more than PLN 112 billion according to the valuation or assessment of the government. Financial support in this project, which we are talking about now, is 47 billion. Where's 70 billion? I have a question for the Minister, as well as a request for Mr Kaleta. Why doesn't the government want to spend 8 billion of VAT on local governments to encourage them to invest? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u500	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u501	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Self-government is the blood flow of every normal country. Why, I mean, why are you draining the government's budget so thin? After all, many people in this room were local government officials, whether on the left or on the right. What don't you understand? That's what you do when it comes to budgeting, for example. building crèches, kindergartens, which are still missing in small and large towns, e.g. in Podlaskie Voivodeship, where I come from. Białystok, Suwałki, Łomża, Hajnówka, Bielsk Podlaski, Wasilków - these are the towns of our country, whose money is needed as much as possible to implement these investments. We have a problem with demographics, and that doesn't help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u502	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Ławniczak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u503	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! It was mentioned here - no longer these Members - that there is no local government in Poland. There was no local government in Poland until 1990. Since 1990, local government has been... [[Voice from the room: And it will be.]] ...and she's been doing really well so far. Not enough, I would like to say that still one of the basic forms of self-government income is determined by each first-level government, by these 2477 local governments, local taxes. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] No one to them, no minister... No one can think of anyone setting taxes, local fees, which are one of the basic elements of their own income. Tabloidisation, ladies and gentlemen. Let's avoid it from here. This is the Seym and let's be serious. Just a roll call. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u504	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Lying has short legs. Look, this is an assessment of the effects of this law. 47 628 million in 10 years. But tomorrow there will be a debate on the tax bill, print number 1532. Within 10 years, you take 112 426 million from local governments. Deficit PLN 65 billion. [[Applause]] This is the truth about your generosity. You're robbing local governments for 65 billion zlotys. Finally, such a Polish proverb: who gives and receives, the one in hell gets carried away. And you're right, because this is your place. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u506	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Walej, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members and Members of the PiS! What you're doing is hitting the Polish government. It hits Elbląg's budget - so less, more than 43 million less, Elbląg will get the money, will have money for daycare, for sidewalks, for social assistance, for all the activities that are needed for residents and residents. Iława - over 9 million. Departmentally - over 5 million. An example of another town of my warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship: Lidzbark Warmiński - almost PLN 4 million less for all activities that are needed for residents and residents. So I specifically ask: Who of you will sign a bill in Blanco, so that these 3 million, 5 million, 9 million, 43 million (The Bell) will get these local governments from the Polish disorder? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u508	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u509	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Polish Load - or even more Polish disorder, because you are constantly changing it, you do not know exactly what its final shape will be - is absolutely unfavorable for local governments. You have such a specific rule that you secretly pull out 12 billion from one pocket, you give 8 billion, and then 3 billion and yell loudly that the government gave money to local governments. The government doesn't give, the government doesn't have its money. Besides, you do the same thing in all the other cases. Quietly raise taxes, charge taxpayers, charge Poles, and then shout out loud. I thought you guys gave us something. Ladies and gentlemen, local governments need stability and stability in terms of funding. You are afraid of local governments, and remember that local governments are responsible for the vast majority of public affairs that take place in this local environment. It's too bad you don't understand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u510	Thank you. Mrs Monica Rosa, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u511	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Changing the title of the law doesn't change the fact that local governments will lose. Specifically, local governments will be robbed by you of PLN 60 billion. And since local governments are being robbed, every resident and every resident is robbed - from nursery, kindergarten, social care, education, sidewalks, communication, urban greenery, with many other current expenses, services, investments. I have a question, Minister. Will you stand here and promise me that.. my Katowice, which will lose a minimum of PLN 60 million on this Polish Łada, will recover every zloty in accordance with the bill you are proposing? That Chorzów, that Tychy, that all other cities, municipalities and districts in Poland will not lose either a zloty, that they will get their money back? And tell me, why don't you want to introduce a simple mechanism to increase PIT and CIT shares for local governments? No complicated systems. I'll tell you why, because a complicated system will allow (the bell) to rob residents and residents. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u512	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u513	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! You'd like to plow the local authorities, because they're independent of you, from the central government. And that's the truth. This new order or, as some people in this room call it - the new shaft is the best example of this. In the coming years you will take 112 billion PLN. And it's not true what you're saying, there's gonna be some compensation that's gonna get that money back. Local governments will recover only PLN 47 billion, or PLN 65 billion will be lost. Only my city of Szczecin will lose about PLN 80 million next year according to preliminary estimates. With this money you could build a school, a few kindergartens, buy 30 electric buses, but unfortunately because of your decisions, this money will not enter the budget of this city and many other cities. So if you want to put in a good mechanism, use the solutions that we propose, from our amendments (the bell), which say that more tax money should go to local governments, that is, directly to people, where these decisions are closest to them. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: This is a bad mechanism, man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u514	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u515	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are debating a law that is clearly written on the knee, written in a hurry and is a legislative prosthetic. On the other hand, we all know that we need a new law on the income of local government units. Work in the ministry lasts six years and we do not know at all what stage they are or when they will end. So, Minister, please answer in writing: At what stage are work on the new law on the income of local government units, in which direction are they going and when will the United Right and Government propose its adoption to the High House? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u516	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u517	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Radomia, April, is pleased that this law will come into force and I am worried. Why? Because you have a permanent mania of promising something. You promised you'd give the money for the renovation of national road number seven within the city of Radom... [[They didn't.]] You didn't. You promised, and you also attended this conference, that you would add to the equipment of the Radom Rehabilitation Center. You still haven't. [[They didn't.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are promises that are uncoverable. And this bill, which actually gives you 1/3 of the money you're going to take, because in a moment you're going to file a bill within the Polish shaft, you're going to be pulling money out of the Radom pocket. What's not gonna happen? Yeah, for example. It may happen that the Radom Culture Centre will not be created, that a new nursery, a new kindergarten will not be created. Why? Because, ladies and gentlemen, dear Radoms, they will take nearly 90 million zlotys a year. That's the scandal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u518	Thank you. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, I was called.]] You're welcome, sir. [[Mr. Marshal, I was summoned. Mr. Marshal, for the first time, please.]] Member, because I'm about to go get Marshal Terletsky. You're welcome, sir. [[But the Member called me.]] [[Voice from the room: It's out of sympathy...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u519	Excuse me, Member. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Mr. Marshal, I'm very sorry. This is the first time I've asked you.]] [[Voice from the room: That's good.]] [[And Mr... you have treated me unfairly, and I want to tell you, very unfairly, because you have told lies. And the sports center is...]] [[I wasn't talking about the sports center.]] [[Oh, come on.]] But can Mr Łącki begin? You're welcome, sir. This day arouses emotions and should arouse emotions, because the 37th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland will go into history as a black session, a black session for the Republic of Poland, a black session for local governments, a black session for citizens. [[Voice from the room: Vote against...]] We, Members of the Republic of Poland, in this session, do nothing but process laws that take money from local governments that release people from work or raise taxes for other people - no other. [[Applause]] At a time of pandemic in a time of great crisis that was not there For decades, governments of all European countries and America have reduced taxes for their citizens. It's gotta be done. You raise taxes for citizens and take money from local governments. [[Voice from the room: Lower.]] You give the least earning supplement after this new shaft of yours, a few dozen zlotys a month. And how much will this citizen, who will receive from you several dozen (the bell) of zlotys a month, have to pay for new services in local governments that will have to raise salaries? Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir. They're gonna have to raise energy prices, they're gonna have to raise water prices and everything. [[Applause]] In history you will be enrolled as a black day of Polish self-government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u520	You're welcome, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u521	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the governing party repeatedly emphasizes the importance of local governments, talks about self-government, talks about participation, about supporting local governments. That sounds nice, but at the same time we have to remember the facts, and the facts are that you do not want to increase your share of PIT revenues for local governments, and this would really affect the development of local government units. In addition, you are proposing solutions that will lead to loss - I will give examples - 81 million in Sosnowiec, 51 million in Dąbrowa Górnicza or 38 million in Jaworzno. The amendments proposed in the Act do not necessarily cover compensation appropriate to the income lost. And my question is, what are the local governments going to give up and how? Maybe some of the tasks in the field of education (the bell), maybe from transport or culture? Please answer these questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u522	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Sebastian Skuza. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u523	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will try to answer the questions synthetically, as requested by the Marshal. The first question concerned the impact assessment. Such an assessment has been prepared and a detailed assessment, together with a simulation of each unit of local government, has been forwarded to the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government. The question was how we estimate and compare the measures provided for local government units using the calculator. I explain that on the side of local government units we add up the forecasted by local government units prior to the announcement of the Polish Load of CIT and PIT and compare this with the forecasted in the state budget for 2022 CIT and PIT and the distribution of general subsidies. In the case of Częstochowa - such a question came up - it is 29 million per plus. [[So they lied.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] [[The voice from the room: you lied.]] There was a question about Fitch's credit rating agency. I must say that the credit rating agency Fitch relied only on the impact assessment of the original draft tax law and on the impact assessment of the regulation with the amount not taking into account the latter local government law. I took the liberty of expressing my concern in writing about this message from the credit rating agency Fitch and sent this letter to the agency. This case is being analyzed. It is not possible to talk about the loss of liquidity by local government units, and as regards the issue of possible valorisation, as I said, the valorisation mechanism will be based on a nominal gross domestic product, i.e. taking into account both economic growth and inflation. The next question was that the counties would not be able to compete, for example. with municipalities in respect of the investment bonus. I explain that according to the development subsidy mechanism, the counties will compete with the counties within their basket. There was a question about own taxes for local government units. I think it would be a far-reaching and highly revolutionary solution. The next question was that the bill coincides with the assumptions of the Government Local Investment Fund. Yes, I can say that it coincides with the sharing of additional subsidies with the first part of RFIL, also shared by algorithm. Next question. How will the development subsidy be calculated? The most important part of this subsidy will be calculated depending on the number of inhabitants taking into account the appropriate minimum level and maximum level. 40% will be calculated on a bonus basis. [[Mr. Minister, they lied and ran away. Minister, look at this.]] Questions were also asked about Lublin and Świdnik. I can say that according to the same principles the simulation of Lublin would gain 5 million PLN compared to its forecasts and Świdnik - 3.9 million PLN. [[Voice from the hall: They lied and fled.]] [[Voice from the hall: They lied and left.]] [[Voice from the room: A Szczecin?]] I'll get to Szczecin slowly. [[And Radom.]] As far as Radom is concerned, I remember that this is the sum of PLN 9.5 million per plus. [[Voice from the room: Oh! - Liar.]] As regards development based on PIT and CIT as well as participations and the fact that this would serve local government units, I would point out that the solutions of the Polish Government do not reduce the shares of local government units in taxes. There was also a question about issues related to 500+. Yesterday I explained that for local government units, for their budgets and for fiscal rules, this is neutral for debt opportunities. Grants for such tasks shall not be included in the algorithms. [[Voice from the room: But they must release 10,000. People.]] [[Voice from the room: Why not 30?]] Next question. Does the project strengthen local governments? Yes, it strengthens self-government. The amount of both 8 billion and development grants will be calculated algorithmically. There was a question about Rzeszow's income. By counting according to the same methodology, Rzeszów would gain 26,9 million in relation to its forecasts prior to the development of the Polish... [[There you go.]] ... Sosnowiec -32.5 million, Łódź - 96 million. [[Boat. There aren't any who asked.]] The next question was to limit the possibility of financing local government units using development grants. Again, I confirm that the development grant will constitute the current income of local government units. There was also a question, and even amendments were proposed, about the issue of compensation of PLN 12.4 billion for local government units. Based on the line of the least resistance, 6 billion in the first division of RFIL according to the algorithm plus 8 billion in the allocation of additional subsidies, which we propose in the bill, gives 14 billion in algorithms. The next questions also concerned, I remember, the cities of Wielkopolska, I only had time to check out the Szamotuła 3 million per plus. As far as further issues are concerned, here were issues related to the impact assessment and comparison of the provisions. I would like to make it clear that the impact assessment in this law is limited to the minimum and represents only a minimum of 3 billion PLN for development grants. However, if the effects were greater - even if it were, as I said, 10 billion PLN per year compared to the reference amount - the development subsidy would have to be increased accordingly to 10 billion PLN. It is in the laws of the draft law that the government takes over. There was also a question about the finances of the city of Białystok. Białystok would gain PLN 57 million from solutions in 2022. There was also a question about Elbląg. Elbląg would gain PLN 17 million. Szczecin - PLN 36 million. [[Voice from the room: I can check.]] So I think it's to be looked at, and the methodology I gave you, I'm going to say it again. These are the forecasts of the local government units themselves dated 5 May for participation in CIT and PIT, i.e. two tax sources, on the left. On the right we leave two things, CIT and PIT forecasted in the state budget already taking into account the impact of the Polish Order plus the distribution of this additional subsidy of PLN 8 billion. Thank you very much. If I have not answered a question and there have been requests, we will address it in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u524	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to thank Mr Tomasz Ławniczak, who gave up his vote. To ensure that there is no bad tension at the end today, I wanted to ask Anna April. Let him realize his dream that in the Seym room one can discuss culturally. There you go. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u525	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. I'm not gonna generate that tension either. I just wanted to say from this place that contrary to what was raining here from this platform, Radom will gain 9 million PLN more thanks to this bill in 2022. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u526	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u527	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the Act is to increase predictability and stabilise the revenues of local government units, as justified by the reasons. Meanwhile, the Association of Polish Cities is thundering in its position, stating that: The legislative project about the support of local government units in connection with the Polish Load program, which dramatically drains city budgets, does not contain systematic support and compensation adequate to the lost income. Please respond to the ZMP's position and answer the following questions. Does the government confirm that, taking into account the changes in PIT introduced in previous years, i.e. in 2019 and 2020, local and regional communities will lose up to PLN 206 billion in current income by 2031? Is it true that the total compensation referred to in the project is only PLN 48 billion by 2031? [[Voice from the hall: Fortunately, all this will remain.]] [[What if he doesn't?]] [[He'll gain, he'll gain.]] [[Voice from the hall: And why lie?]] [[In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report.]] [[If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer.]] [[I can't hear you objecting.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, I'm declaring a time-out. 9:30.]] [[Thank you very much.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 mins 20 h 21 min 32]] [[I'm reopening the session.]] [[We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Grzegorz Puda (prints 1511 and 1564).]] [[I ask Mr Stefan Krajewski to provide a justification for the proposal.]] [[Are you Mr Stefan Krajewski?]] [[There it is. I thought the motion was withdrawn.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u528	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of Polish farmers, who are at the heart of the welfare of the countryside and Polish agriculture, I present a request for the cancellation of Minister Grzegorz Puda. I thank the Members of the Left for their support for the proposal. I have 15 minutes to justify this request. If I had to talk about what the Minister didn't do and what you didn't do, we'd be out of day or night. But if I'm going to talk about an attempt to act or the minister's failure, 15 minutes will be enough. I can't talk about Mr. Grzegorz Puda as a man. neither bad nor good, because he didn't let us parliamentarians know him. As Minister, you do not attend the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, you have not once spoken in the plenary room, you have not presented any draft legislation, ideas or positions of the government. I put a tractor on the platform. You know why? [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Brum, brum, Stefek.]] [[It's lovely. Mom's kindergarten.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the hall: Tractor.]] Agricultural tractor. I dedicate this arrangement to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture because they're both famous for their way of life. Just like during the famous conference, my tractor is rented from the machine park of my four-year-old. [[Applause]] [[But you don't have to scream.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] It is said that the inventors of the feat during the performance of Prime Minister Morawiecki, when new machinery was placed on the farm which was not part of the visited farm, was to be Mr Puda. It's a blow to Polish farmers who make loans, making applications to equip their farms with the necessary equipment. What's next? Painting grass green? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] To the point, because farmers are watching the meeting, and they're asking for help and to deal with their problems. At this point, I want to say hello to all the farmers. [[Applause]] I want to thank you for your hard work 365 days a year, without holidays and holidays, not as a politician, but as a man all his life associated with the countryside and agriculture. Law and Justice mocked Polish farmers and slapped them, calling on the Minister for Agriculture of the rapporteur of the Friday Kaczyński - anti-Polish, anti-agricultural and anti-business law, which caused huge opposition among farmers, which would block exports. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] After this law, no farmer expected anything good from your work at the Ministry of Agriculture, but you surprised, above all, the incompetence, the ignoring of the problems of agriculture and the farming environments. You can't talk to farmers. There are few absurd communications from the Ministry of Agriculture to answer these allegations and claim that Minister Puda is talking to farmers because he met with representatives of Copa Cogec. Minister! You don't see any problems in agriculture or emerging new threats, because you don't have any substantive knowledge or experience. It was only our motion that made you nervously attempt to organize meetings, even with poor results, because it was also set up. It's amazing how tough you are to defend your own luxury. According to media reports referring to information from the Ministry officials, the Minister was to refuse to take a business trip with Skoda Superb and requested the purchase of Audi A8. [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] [[Voice from the room: Don't yell!]] He also wanted to fire one of the experienced staff of the Ministry for not booking a minister of luxury VIP lounge at the airport in Rzeszów. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] It's a pity you don't show the same hardness when breaking deadlocks, for example, about setting up a national food holding company. Minister Sasin called you the main brake in this case. You are a symbol of the incompetence and impossibility of this government you were supposed to fight. [[Applause]] [[Why are you screaming? Don't yell.]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Let him speak as he pleases.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Farmers don't know who the minister is unless they saw him on TV making a spectacular sandwich. Today's proposal was an excellent opportunity for them to finally meet him. However, putting this item on the agenda at such a late hour may make it impossible for farmers to see it because they get up at hours. Four, five in the morning, and right now they're getting ready to sleep. [[Applause]] [[You don't listen very well.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[But you're farmers.]] The Minister's inactivity list is long. Firstly, less money for agriculture. Under the rule of law and justice, Polish agriculture suffered billions of losses. Over the last 5 years, the national budget for rural development has been reduced by PLN 20 billion. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Scandal!]] Former Minister of Agriculture Krzysztof Jurgel said directly: Polish agriculture lost over PLN 6 billion by Ardanowski. At first, it was also difficult to find resources for agriculture in KPO. These are the best examples of the government's actions, for which Minister Puda is the successor. I would like to draw attention to the failure of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, administrative difficulties and overzealous bureaucracy, which reduces the use of funds from the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and thus delays the development of Polish agriculture. An example is the flagship action, i.e. modernisation of agricultural holdings. Recruitment was announced on 20 June 2021. Only 1603 applications for all sub-measures were submitted for mid-August. Therefore, the recruitment period was extended until 20 September. When we were responsible for the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, farmers submitted several thousand applications. In my Podlaskie voivodship, it was a few thousand. Now the PiS with their fat cats in agricultural agencies has made it more difficult for applications to be dealt with. Farmers are discouraged from applying for support. Farmers have stopped trusting this government, as this action is an example. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] It is worrying that more and more experienced workers are leaving the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which will have a negative impact on the pace and quality of supported actions and proposals. The true vote of distrust for the Minister is poverty, fear for the future and tragedy of Polish farmers. Minister! What did you do to increase and compensate for the subsidies? [[Voice from the room: Nothing.]] After all, for at least 8 years this has been the most repeated password during meetings with farmers of all the politicians of Law and Justice. [[They lied.]] What about agriculture? In the Polish Lad, all you promise is to increase by 10 PLN the surcharge for agricultural fuel, release of agricultural retail, and the rest are just whistles: e-window or new IT systems. Production costs in agriculture are increasing due to record prices of fuel, electricity, and for wasted 3 billion PLN in Ostrołęka many biogas plants, windmills or photovoltaic farms could be created. The constantly rising prices of feed, drugs, inputs, fertilisers. At the same time, milk prices are concentrated, live prices are comparable to those of two decades ago. We can talk a lot about numbers and prices, but the situation in the countryside best reflects the purchasing value of money. How many goods and services can we purchase for the infamous 500+ or 300+? [[Exactly.]] Fertilizer prices. The data from the CSO shows that they increased by 11% on average, nitrogen fertilisers - on average by 17,5%. [[That's in a year.]] In the latest GUS report we will also find information about price increases in narrower categories of products and services. The highest annual dynamics are characterized by fuel. Petrol - 29,2%, diesel - 24,6%, LPG - 32,7% and garbage disposal - 21.9%. [[Voice from the room: Obietek.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] The situation of pig holdings is tragic. We've had the lowest level of cattle population since the '60s. 20th century In 12 months, it fell by 40,000. That's 109 farms decommissioned a day. Minister! Did you meet with those farmers who lost their entire life's work in one day because of your insane policy? Have you seen these dramas of families? What are you gonna say to the farmers you ordered to take out the farm and not get a penny in return? How can they live and support their families? ASF - you've had a prescription for many years, how to change it. It's a disease that causes huge economic losses. All sick animals present in the campfire shall be subject to killing. Animal by-products shall be disposed of. 103 ASF outbreaks have been detected since the beginning of the year. This is the time data. 16. Maybe there's more of these bonfires already. [[Scandal!]] 339 outbreaks of avian influenza. Millions of animals were slaughtered. The ASF epidemic has reduced the number of pig holdings. On 1 January 2020, pigs were raised in more than 124 000. holdings. After 12 months, their number dropped to 84,7 thousand. For the fight against ASF and avian influenza, 430 million were allocated in the budget. It's outrageously low resources. Farmers cannot sell the cattle, and if they do, they are either at or below the cost limit. [[2.80.]] Numerous agricultural protests concern bad rules, lack of cooperation with officials, as well as poor decisions made by the Minister. The systematic decline in the number of pig producers is the best indication of the inadequacies of the Minister for Agriculture. Has the minister forgotten nearly 270 thousand? persons employed in breeding and processing pork? Not only have farmers been left to themselves, but the Polish government, the Minister of Agriculture, is doing nothing to restore exports to Asia, which should be indicated... The districts that are famous for the cattle are: Piotrkowski district, Żuromiński district, southern Wielkopolska region, an area that is infected with ASF today... [[Room voice: Red zone.]] Unusual in Poland, in Polish agriculture, the scale of threats can cause total elimination of pig production. Low purchase prices. Since 2015, the number of pig holdings has fallen three times. Processing plants import pig feed from Western countries, stopping buying from domestic farms. The strange thing is that Poland, which has huge traditions in pig farming, is de facto an importer of pork. Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski says: if this situation persists, only meat from imports will be available on the Polish market. Are you really going to end all the farms and hire these farmers in the Treasury companies? Places aren't enough. On August 3, 2019, at a meeting in the village of Dygowo, the leader of Law and Justice said: we secured Polish land, Polish land must be for Polish farmers. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] Meanwhile, 412 ha were sold in 2015. In 2020, 1560 ha fell into foreign hands. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Inflation in August in Poland amounted to 5.5% And it's been the biggest in 20 years. This result exceeded the worst forecasts of economists. From this place I want to take the side of farmers who have been appalled by the words of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki that farmers gain from high inflation. That's not true. [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: It is not.]] [[No, he doesn't know economics.]] Because they pay high prices for machines, means of production or for ordered services. It is Minister Puda who is like inflation. He grew unnecessarily, the management of the PiS ignores him, and Poles, especially farmers, suffer because of him. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] He is probably the only minister of agriculture in the history of the Third Republic, which is openly criticized not only by political competitors, but even by predecessors from the same party. Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, in one of his interviews, said that as Minister of Agriculture, you need to understand what it is to care about farmers and rural areas and to provide adequate resources for policy implementation. Because you don't do anything for farmers. Bravo! It's gonna be a day of history with a pet at the National Agricultural Support Centre. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] The institution, which should support Polish agriculture, gives employees the opportunity to spend the day with their dog or kitten at work. Is that your team's response to the farmers' problems? Empty propaganda instead of solutions and cheap marketing actions instead of effective politics. In this way, we can briefly describe the time of Minister Grzegorz Puda's office. About the future. You talk about small and medium-sized farms, but there are also commodity farms that produce and give Poland food security. You can't forget them, you have to support them too. Organic farming, bio, small farms are important, but we need to support all those who work hard, work honestly and want to grow. [[What's more important is the living room...]] The basic production of milk, meat, cereals should be reflected in development interventions, i.e. under the second pillar, while you want to move funds from investment and promotion to the first pillar for direct payments to farmers who sometimes do not even know where the field is, because they lease and collect subsidies. You didn't do anything to make things right. On the basis of all these arguments, on behalf of the applicants, I request the High House to express its distrust of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development of Grzegorz Puda. The number of arguments I have quoted despite the limited speaking time is sufficient to make such a decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The Member holds the tractor-toy]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Stefan!]] [[Leave it to them, damn it.]] [[Give it to the baby.]] [[Voice from the room: How can a child be taken away?]] [[Voice from the hall: Where's the dog?]] [[Liars!]] [[Voice from the hall: Play.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u529	I now ask Robert Telus to present the opinion of the committee. [[Time to count him off.]] [[Voice from the room: Tractor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u530	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, [[Voice from the room: Traitor of the Polish...]] Gentlemen, Prime Minister! I'm sorry. Ministers! Membership! It is my great honor to present the report of the committee meeting on which... [[Voice from the room: So? Are we gonna lie?]] [[Say something about inflation.]] [[Voice from the room: How many boxes did you buy?]] ...we discussed the request made by the Polish People's Party and, here it was said, and the SLD, and the Left. This really once again showed, as it used to be in history, that the ZSL and PZPR work together. [[Applause]] [[Are you the committee's rapporteur?]] Also PSL already worked with rainbows, and with reds, and oranges. [[Peterovich.]] It worked with everyone, but most of all, ladies and gentlemen, but it is drawn to this red color, to the Left, to the PZPR. [[Voice from the hall: Piotrowicz!]] [[Beloved, you accompany Peterovich. Dear comrade, Jasinski.]] [[Voice from the hall: Crystal.]] Dear Members, as to what was happening at the committee meeting, it was a great surprise to me that the Members who signed the motion... [[Mrs. Basia.]] ...was over a hundred, about a hundred, for a committee meeting... [[Chairman...]] ...there have been a dozen more, and as the committee's sitting has already been concluded and the vote has taken place, there are nine Members left. And their heads were getting lower. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Why is that? Mr Krajewski, the applicant, presented the proposal, as he said this time, that he had a certain time, but he also presented it for 15 minutes at the committee meeting, because he had nothing more to say. And the Minister, who responded to this request, spoke for more than two hours about the achievements of the Ministry of Agriculture during the time when Law and Justice rule. [[Applause]] [[You're not the judge.]] [[Voice from the hall: The minister wasn't there.]] He had more than two hours to say. And your heads were getting lower. You were ashamed. And remember, ladies and gentlemen, there was a situation at the committee meeting that you were wondering if you could withdraw this proposal because you were ashamed of the fact that it was written so badly. [[You're just talking.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir, yes, sir.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Such a bad conclusion written on several pages, three pages, it was the Members who judged him... [[The voice from the hall: What did it say to you...]] ...that he's a political hucpa, written on his knees, that he's a bad conclusion, many, many bad conclusions. But I will try to present to you what Members have said about this proposal, these points. [[Voice from the hall: What did the farmers write to you in the office?]] The first point is that we promised to increase subsidies and there is no increase in subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen, if you could count at least a little bit, you would know that 34.5 billion, which will be allocated in the new perspective to Polish agriculture with European funds, is more than 32 billion... [[It won't, because of you it won't.]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] ...which you've done with everything. [[Applause]] [[Where are they?]] I'm sure that four-year-old would know that 34.5 is more than 32. [[Marshal Terlecki... walks out.]] And you're saying these are smaller resources. [[There will be no subsidies, because polyxit will.]] And what you really need to remember is historically, because this is a very important thing. [[Mr Grupiński, take something.]] In 2004, the Polish People's Party with the SLD, with the former PZPR introduced us to the European Union. And then Kalinowski came out and said that in 2014 the subsidies would be compensated. That's how we squared up. For 15 years, you've been cheating on a Polish farmer. [[Don't wave your hand.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You've been stealing from a Polish farmer for 15 years. [[Applause]] Next point... [[Voice from the room: But what equalization?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just discussing what happened at the committee meeting. [[But don't blow it, man.]] Next item: agriculture in Polish Lada. You're saying there's nothing in the Polish Agricultural Deal. Ladies and gentlemen, EUR 1200 million, EUR 1200 million. Write that down. [[Report to the committee.]] Let the Member write it down. This was said in the committee: EUR 1200 million for the processing that you sold. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You sold Polish processing and we're rebuilding it now. You're rebuilding the Minister with the Prime Minister. They're rebuilding what you guys have sold so far. And you say there's nothing about Polish agriculture. [[Who sold Ursus?]] And the insurance? And the insurance, ladies and gentlemen? And the Family Farm Act? You've always promised her, the Family Farm Act. Now she's prepared and it's in the Polish Lad. The biggest chapter in Polish Lodz concerns Polish agriculture. And that's true, ladies and gentlemen. And I want Polish farmers to hear it. [[Game in the O.R.]] This is a great leap of civilization, a great hope for Polish agriculture, a reconstruction of what you destroyed in Polish agriculture. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! ASF problem. And that's where I have to say I'm right. We have a problem with ASF, and that's true. But now let's compare. In 2014, when you were in charge and when ASF started... [[Three fires.]] ...there were three or four fires? [[Voice from the room: three!]] Three. And you couldn't handle three. Your minister couldn't handle three. [[And you have 100.]] [[Voice from the room: 100.]] [[And you're 140 and what? It's developing great.]] How much did you spend, ladies and gentlemen? You allocated 9 million PLN in 2014, in 2015 - less than 40 million PLN, and this year we... Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Puda and Prime Minister this year allocated PLN 750 million to fight infectious diseases, including ASF alone - PLN 400 million. [[Applause]] And compare: 40 million zlotys for your governments and 400 million zlotys that we are allocating right now. [[Only the farmers didn't get it...]] Ladies and gentlemen! Equalisation for farmers. I want farmers to hear it. The Prime Minister has signed a regulation in recent days on the basis of which the loss of income of all farmers who are in the ASF zone will be offset. All breeders who lose their income in the red zones will be compensated by compensation. Thanks to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Puda. [[Applause]] [[The farmers will fall, and yours...]] Ladies and gentlemen! Sadition is the next point in your motion. Who destroyed the Polish Sadition? [[Voice from the room: PiS!]] Who destroyed the Polish processing? [[Voice from the room: PiS!]] Polish People's Party. You sold, you sold Polish processing. [[Voice from the room: Dude, PiS...]] [[Cherry after 50 gr.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You won't be forgotten by the farmers. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, if there are no arguments, this is a cry. [[Applause]] [[Then shut him up.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, next point. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Keep yelling. I would like to present to you the next item: embargo on Polish products. Ladies and gentlemen, is this a request to dismiss the Minister from the PiS, or is it a PSL? [[Voice from the room: from the PiS.]] [[All you have to do is report to the committee...]] When was the embargo on Polish fruits imposed on Polish apples? To PSL. Did you forget about that? [[The voice from the hall: shame! Shame!]] It's your government that introduced the embargo. Have you forgotten this? Does this concern you? Or did someone just copy it and paste it from your minister's motion to appeal? [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: Who introduced it, and why?]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] Growing production costs. [[We'll be out of production soon.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's remember the footage at Owl's and Friends' Restaurant... [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] ...when your friend said, "And now, uh... - I'm not gonna tell you again - fuel could be 7 zlotys. [[Voice from the room: About a bowl of rice.]] [[A bowl of rice!]] [[Voice from the hall: Don't yell, listen.]] Seven zlotys each. This is what you wanted in 2014. And now we have how much fuel? Five zlotys each with pennies. Not after 7 PLN, just as you wanted to introduce Poles at that time, in 2014. [[A bowl of rice!]] At the moment it's 2021 and the price of fuel is lower than when you ruled. [[A bowl of rice! A bowl of rice!]] Veterinary inspection is the next point in your motion. Ladies and gentlemen, today is just what you have destroyed in Poland. Veterinary inspection - closed lab. Today, when we need a lab to fight ASF, we need to build... [[Voice from the hall: In Piotrków there is.]] ...just like in Piotrków. You were talking about Piotrków. In Piotrków, Minister Puda and Prime Minister are building a new laboratory because you have closed down. [[Applause]] Next item, ladies and gentlemen: agricultural pension. [[Voice from the room: 67.]] [[67 years old.]] Have you forgotten who raised the retirement age for farmers? [[Vladek! Vladek!]] [[Voice from the room: PSL.]] Very good. But the Law and Justice know, remembers. Of course I do. [[But this is the report from the committee meeting?]] Of course Mr. Kosiniak-Kamish raised the farmers by 12 years and the farmers by 7 years of retirement. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] Did you guys forget about that? [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] And then there's the pension rate. Do you remember what pensions were in 2014? It's about the amount of agricultural retirement. [[Voice from the room: 800 PLN!]] 820 PLN. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] And today we have 1250 zlotys. By 50% We raised our pensions by 50%. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: But what inflation do you have.]] [[Voice from the room: About inflation tell.]] The allegations that the Minister isn't seeing farmers. Dear country, how can you even accuse a minister who drives around Poland and meets with every farmer when needed. Minister! Thank you for meeting with the farmers from Piotrków when he was ASF. When no one took sides with Polish farmers, pig farmers, you met with them. Thank you so much for that. [[Applause]] And he didn't just meet, ladies and gentlemen, he didn't just meet. Then, within two weeks, a regulation was written on the compensation of lost income. That's why I thank you so much. [[Voice from the room: Melissa.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Next thing. 3 weeks ago - this is a historical issue - agricultural trade unions, the largest trade unions, about 40, 50 people, met not only with the Minister, but also with the Prime Minister. One of the trade unionists said famous words: for the first time the Prime Minister came to a meeting with agricultural unions. This is Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[He's Prime Minister for Agriculture.]] In the second part of this meeting, the committee presented what is still ahead of us, as the Ministry is currently working on. It goes on, among other things. a project about a family farm, a thing you've often announced, and we're doing it, a project about farmhouses, another protection of state land... [[That drum's about to burst.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What you did in 2014... If we hadn't come to power, today we wouldn't have Polish state land, because you would have sold it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] You have prepared a bill that would allow us to sell Polish land. We protected the Polish land, and you have the audacity to talk about protecting the Polish land? Polish product. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment there is nothing more important than developing the best brand, our best product. The Polish product already has a good brand not only in Poland but also in the west of Europe. Europeans are already looking for a sign: Polish product, because they know that it is a good brand. Recently I had a meeting on a forum in Karpacz and there representatives of commercial networks from Western countries asked if they could use this sign: Polish product, because it is a brand that is already known in Europe. [[Voice from the room: The Jagiellons do.]] And this is due to the Ministry of Agriculture and all three ministers. That's why, Minister, we thank you for this bill. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, right. But what are you getting so excited about? Did you lose the vote on the committee or something?]] And there's nothing more important, my dear country, right now than taking care of consumers. On the one hand, there are farmers, on the other hand, consumers. This is a very important thing. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, food passporting will be introduced. It is important that the customer, the consumer, so that the Pole who buys food at the store, knows where this food is from... [[Voice from the room: More inflation.]] [[Voice from the room: 6 years in charge, do something.]] ...whether it is ours, Polish, good, best, or imported from abroad, because it would suit you to be imported from abroad. [[You've killed all the cattle.]] No, ladies and gentlemen, there will be passporting and any customer will be able to find out where this food is from. And this is the work currently being done at the Ministry of Agriculture. [[Applause]] Yesterday I had a meeting, ladies and gentlemen, with embassy advisors: German, French and Dutch. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: This is the committee's report?]] [[Voice from the room: What are we interested in?]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet. And listen to the rest. Culture a little.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This was discussed at the committee meeting. I repeat what happened at the committee's meeting, sir. This was discussed at the committee meeting. [[Voice from the Chamber: The rapporteur has the right to...]] [[Sit down.]] And in this meeting, ladies and gentlemen, the Germans envied us... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...and they said they were watching the Minister do it, that the CAP strategies consult so widely, because in Germany and France they don't consult because they're afraid of farmers, and the Minister is consulting this strategy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] It's important to talk to farmers to determine with them. That's what the German embassy advisor said. [[At the committee meeting?]] The second thing they envy us... They envy us just how we do it, that we can take care of the Polish breeder, that if he loses his income, the state equalizes it to him. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're watching us, learning from Minister Puda how to take care of farmers. [[But the president doesn't hear it anyway. Don't sacrifice yourself like that, because the president can't hear you.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Are you really saying this or are you crazy?]] Export. Ladies and gentlemen, export has also been mentioned, we have historical export results of agricultural products: EUR 34 billion and the excess export over imports was EUR 12 billion. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, there really has never been such a sale, so that it is very important. [[Voice from the hall: What about the Jagiellons?]] Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude, on the vote, as I have already mentioned, 100 people have signed the proposal (the bell) and 9 Members have voted against the proposal and 20 Members have voted against it. [[Applause]] [[Member of Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: And how many people are there...]] 20 parliamentarians voted against this proposal. This shows that this conclusion is, as I said at the beginning, written on the knee, and the conclusions are sucked out of the finger. It is only a political huck. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: And you are wonderful.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[I'm standing.]] [[You're constantly breaking the rules of the Seym. The committee's report shall be presented on behalf of all members of the committee, not...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u531	The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. As the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Jerzy Małecki, Mr Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u532	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! High Izbo! I will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Grzegorz Puda. My favorite sentence of this total opposition proposal is this: shock and disbelief. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] There is no doubt that for many of you, the fact that there are people living in the countryside who have the same dreams and ambitions as all Poles, may be shock and disbelief. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The biggest shock and underbelieving, however, is probably the fact that since the rule of Law and Justice, farmers and residents of the Polish village finally have the chance to realize these dreams and ambitions. [[Applause]] [[It's shock and disbelief.]] The content of your proposal shows how little you know about the Polish village. Such a level of knowledge is perhaps the result of the fact that for years you were ashamed of the Polish village, you wanted to forget about it. [[You have such knowledge that you read from a card.]] [[Sit down.]] The Law and Justice Programme for the Polish countryside can be summarised in four words. [[Voice from the room: Five Kaczyński.]] The idea is to restore the dignity of the Polish village, the Polish agriculture. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We This program has been implemented consistently for 6 years. The reconstruction of the Polish village after the governments of PO and PSL worked hard outside Minister Grzegorz Puda's outstanding predecessors in the government of Law and Justice: Krzysztof Jurgiel and Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Any serious proposal for the Polish village must come from respect to the farmer's work. Law and Justice have always respected this work because we know that there is no harder piece of bread than agricultural work. The machines can help in this work, but they can't replace a man. [[Applause]] First of all, we moved the Polish village where it belongs, which is to the centre of our policy. After years of pushing the problems of farmers today they are... [[Ha, ha, ha! That's good.]] ...at the heart of government policy at both national and European level. For the first time... [[You sell the Polish land.]] ...Polish farmers have their representative in the European Commission, Janusz Wojciechowski. And that's not a decorative position... [[Applause]] [[The policy centre is state Treasury companies.]] ...but the position from which the voice of the Polish village is heard throughout Europe and its interests effectively defended. I must admit that the most hypocritical declaration in your proposal is the need to introduce prices guaranteed for Polish farmers. If it's that simple, then why didn't you actually do it the way you ruled? I will answer immediately: because within the European Union such solutions are simply not to be introduced. Besides, the Polish farmer does not need a price guarantee, but a guarantee of cost-effectiveness. And where there are no extraordinary difficulties, like ASF, like bird flu, like extreme weather conditions, this profitability is today. But maybe even good weather can guarantee farmers? You can promise anything. Your proposal is based on pseudo-arguments, but the truth is that whoever does not have one good argument is looking for a series of lousy ones. [[Voice from the hall: This one gets manure.]] Our argument in talking to farmers has always been and will be credibility. We're just doing what we committed to in front of the farmers. We promised them that the Polish village would gain its rightful position and we keep that word. Minister Grzegorz Puda is currently working on this. We're looking at the bigger picture, too. We invest not only in agriculture, but also in rural infrastructure on a scale that has not yet been. The Minister often emphasizes that we want farmers and residents of Polish villages to have a chance to develop as in the city. We want the children in the country to be educated on the same level as in the cities. We want pensioners not to have to worry about whether the pension is enough for the winter. We want new businesses to appear in the country so that Polish families can have a peaceful and prosperous future with the village. This is fully in line with the programme and policy of law and justice for rural areas. [[We do all the time.]] Polish Lad is only one of the projects in which the wide Polish village is included. Many others are either in preparation or are being prepared, or are being implemented, such as a support programme for the populace villages. It's all in your relationship that you call nothing for ten months. I admire that Minister Puda accepts this attack with humility and does his job. We do not intend to convince you of this because we answer not to your political whims, but to the farmers and to the Polish village. We leave it to them to evaluate the activities of our ministers, and we do not fear it at all, because we know that only one currency is valued in the countryside - hard work. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote against the motion for a vote of distrust for Minister Grzegorz Puda. [[Applause]] And last but not least, your motion is simply weak. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u533	Now on behalf of the Civic Coalition, Mr Kazimierz Plocke.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u534	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! October 6th would have been a year since you were in office. This time and your activity are negative. [[Applause]] By the time you became Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, you had already failed. Let us remind you that the flagship project of Minister Grzegorz Puda today was so-called. Five for animals. I mean, the project went to the trash, but you... [[And that's why the Left signed the motion? For five pets?]] ...he became a minister. To this day, it is said that it was a reward for defending an important project for you, President Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] When you included the minister's office, you declared here a quote: "It is a great honor for me to serve the Polish village." As your example shows, honors are easily accepted, worse than ministerial duties. Using VIP passes at airports is a privilege, not an obligation. You failed in this field, too. [[Applause]] Allow me to exchange a few more. Poland will receive around EUR 32 billion for the new budgetary perspective. This is less than under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. This is even acknowledged by Krzysztof Jurgiel, MEP of Law and Justice, who wrote in his letter to Mr Duda: "We lost €1.5 billion for farmers during the multiannual financial framework agreement. The direct payments will therefore be around 2% less money than in the previous perspective and around 13% less for rural development than in the perspective that ends. [[Applause]] It's worth remembering. Minister, you and Commissioner Janusz Wojciechowski did not ensure that Poland would receive higher funding under the new perspective. The money was supposed to be more, there's less. It's your failure. On March 21st of this year, you announced that agriculture would be affected by the National Plan for Reconstruction 20%. measures. It soon turned out that the money was 5 times less, and the farmers at the press conference before the Sejm on May 6th this year brought you to earth. And so they summarized you with another failure, and I quote: "The money that has been allocated to agriculture is symbolic and small. We're left with the 4%. sold. End of quote. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] The fact that you were not even involved in the creation of the National Reconstruction Plan shows that your position in the government is too weak to seek higher funding for agriculture. Another failure of yours is the Polish Government for agriculture. Do you know, Minister, which is a programme of law and justice for agriculture in the last six years? I'll give you a hint: six. Firstly, the Polish Government is a political programme, not a government programme, because the government did not accept it at any of its meetings. It's worth remembering that. Secondly, there are no solutions to the reconstruction of agriculture after the pandemic and your six-year-old governments. Thirdly, you do not have money to implement it, except for funds from the European Union. In the Polish Agricultural Deal by 2030 5 billion PLN was declared annually as part of the national contribution to EU projects. And I can't even find that money in the budget for 2022 because they're not there for today. You have recently stated that farmers who suffer losses as a result of a state of emergency will be able to count on state support. In this connection, we have a question for the Minister: How many farms are affected by emergency rigour, and what are the estimated losses on these holdings? The words, Minister, must be followed by deeds. We're waiting. As part of the continuity of power, the Minister should continue the projects. You don't even do that. That is why we ask: Where is the national food holding company - an initiative taken by Law and Justice in autumn 2015? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Where is the noisy announced strategy for the fight against African swine fever? Currently in Poland we have the lowest pig population for 70 years. [[Scandal!]] [[Voice from the hall: Skowronska woke up.]] Only in the first quarter of this year more than 20,000 were liquidated in Poland. swine flocks, [[Applause]] which means that 250 farms are extinguished daily (the bell) by the production of pigs in Poland. Minister! To sum up your activities, we want to say that your assessment of your work is negative. You're not active. You just can't do it. That's why our club will vote in favour of your appeal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u535	Mr Marcin Kulasek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u536	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Polish village digests two diseases to which Minister Puda is helpless - African swine fever and bird flu. Farmers are left to themselves. The budget reserve for the eradication of animal diseases, aid to farmers, ended in the middle of the year. You are now announcing a aid scheme to farmers who have suffered from ASF. It's a sensible program, but it's underfunded. 200 million PLN is small compared to the needs, with the scale of the drama of Polish farmers. The special reserve, which was exhausted in the middle of the year, was PLN 432 million. The Polish village destroys two animal diseases. Meanwhile, the Veterinary Inspection is still underfunded. In a moment the doctor will earn less than the minimum wage after difficult studies in the district veterinarian. It's a shame for you. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] The ASF fire on farms was over 50 this year. The avian flu is even worse - over 300 fires, 300 dramas of agricultural families. According to the information received in response to my interpellation, only 82 outbreaks of avian influenza have been compensated. So the rest of us are still waiting. In the meantime, you'd rather keep your hands off of rented farm equipment. I admit, there is a lot of modern equipment in the Polish village - thanks to the entry of Poland into the European Union, thanks to the Left, thanks to Wojciech Olejniczak and his people. [[Applause]] But it's a beautiful past. The sad present is that the use of the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period is 65%. And it's the second half of 2021. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] The measures consisting of investments in fixed assets were implemented in 44%. What about the new budgetary perspective? One of your predecessors, Mr Krzysztof Jurgel, argues that Poland lost up to €1.5 billion to farmers due to the absence and lack of effective action by Minister Ardanowski. 1.5 EUR billion. Polish farmers will no longer see this money. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] For several years, you've been proposing to create a national food holding company. No results. I hear it's because you can't communicate with Prime Minister Sasin. Although in this case, maybe it's for the best. [[Applause]] We are also waiting for innovative banking products for agriculture, which will be created in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego by Lech Kołakowski. That's what he's taking the money for. From year to year, the state budget for crop and livestock insurance is decreasing. In 2017, there were 917 million, including only 400 million PLN. As every year, these agricultural insurance funds were no longer available in April. She intervened in this matter with the National Council of Agricultural Chambers. Once again, farmers who wanted to insure their crops were dismissed. On the other hand, the Left submitted in the Sejm a draft law protecting the state budget a fixed amount for support for crop and breeding insurance. Another year in a row we have agricultural drought in Poland. The government is helpless in this respect. Meanwhile, the Left submitted the so-called. a small amendment to Water Law. And what did you do at that time, Minister? Minister! You came to the resort with a mission to save the PiS position in the countryside after the so-called. Five for animals. Today we see that this mission has failed. The village burns with anger. But it deserves a summary of the entire period of the PiS government in agriculture. You promised to compensate for the payments. You are in charge of the second term of office, in Brussels you have your agricultural commissioner - the issue of subsidies has not moved. [[Applause]] I quote: running word propaganda policy, weak dialogue policy, lack of comprehensive action and strategic thinking. It's from an open letter from Mr Jurgiel about the governments of another Minister of Agriculture from PiS, your predecessor. I feel that these words are still valid and sum up well the entire period of the rule of law and justice (the bell) in Polish agriculture. It's time to stop. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u537	Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u538	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! I would like to congratulate Mr Krajewski on the accuracy of his arguments, [[Applause]] because his arguments made Mr PiS rapporteur so angry that he was jumping on that speaker. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] The rapporteur spoke a lot about history, including ours. True, we ruled with the Civic Platform, with the SLD, we formed a coalition with the Hienopiast, and Witos formed the Government of National Defence and the Temporary Government of National Unity. [[Voice from the room:...with protection like you.]] In 125 years of our history, thank God we did not rule with one party, with the PiS. [[Applause]] And we're not planning on it. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The rapporteur mentioned the ZSL. Yeah, that's part of our story. For ZSL, agricultural pensions and pensions were introduced. [[And martial law.]] Health care was introduced and the Polish village was electrified. [[Voice from the room:...killed.]] You're outraged by the ZSL, but you're taking advantage of the achievements of his pupils. [[Voice from the hall: From whom did you buy the land?]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Janusz Wojciechowski, ZSL-bred, is the best export product for the Commissioner of Agriculture. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Wojciechowski.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Zbigniew Kuzmiuk, export goods from Mazowsze - from ZSL to PiS and to Europe. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: But he converted.]] [[Bravo!]] Don't be so upset about the ZSL if you're taking advantage of his work. We have a bit of a grudge against Wojciechowski because he quickly forgot what he learned in the folk movement. [[Lucky for you.]] Today his mentor is who? Sylvia Spurek. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] He wants to make the Polish village a museum. [[Applause]] We're not gonna let that happen. We will continue to develop the Polish village. We will not allow Commissioner Wojciechowski to fulfill Mrs Spurek's dreams. We will defend the right to fish, the right to pork, the right to breeding and to normality. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[And isn't that the same list...]] We are now talking about a vote of distrust in the absence of the host of the Polish village, in the face of abdication, in the face of failing to do what you have committed yourself to, i.e. representing Polish farmers. This is a vote of distrust not only to the minister, who is not really there, but also to your entire strategy. There's no grocery store, you don't eliminate dishonest brokers. The prices in the shops are rising, and farmers don't make any more money. ASF. Three outbreaks for 2 years were held by agricultural ministers in three powiats near the border with Belarus. ♪ In your reigns ♪ ASF spilled all over Poland. This brings down 109 pig farms every day. [[Scandal!]] Between 1 January 2020 and 1 January 2021, 40 000 fell in Poland. holdings keeping pigs. You're saying you're gonna pay compensation to their owners? Prime Minister, Minister, we must send an expedition group to look for these farmers because they work in France, Germany and the Netherlands. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Direct payments. There is no French level, there is no German level, there is a European average level negotiated by us. When we were in charge, we negotiated the budget. That was EUR 32 billion. You've negotiated 30 billion euros. That's $7 billion less. In addition, robbing farmers from Pillar II so that the level of the European average that we have guaranteed can be maintained, because you could not, having your Commissioner from the ZSL, make that happen. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] The farm insurance was supposed to be for everyone at any time. You could only register for 15 minutes because there was no more money. How much did the farm insurance go on? 400 million PLN. And for propaganda on TVP and beating there hey - 2 billion PLN. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Thieves.]] [[Thieves.]] Sale of land. You went to elections under the banner of protecting Polish land. In 2015, 412 ha were sold to foreigners, in 2020,1560 ha. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] You exploited the Polish village, deceived the Polish farmer and rejected him. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] In fact, the culmination of all of this was what Minister Puda reported as an MEP. It's about five presidents of Kaczyński. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Mr Morawiecki was the first Prime Minister to meet with the agricultural unions. So Prime Minister Kaczyński didn't date agricultural unions? [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] Mr. Telus, there will be no place for you on the list. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We must cancel the absent host of the Polish village, who abdicated, which harms agriculture and the Polish village. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: It's not funny at all.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u539	Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Where is Braun?]] [[Voice from the room: Apologize for Braun.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u540	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! I'll start with the question. Do you remember this picture? [[Voice from the hall: Don't hang the minister.]] This is a picture taken just after the vote of the fives for animals so-called. Fridays of Jarosław Kaczyński, or fives against farmers. Here you are against the background of activists fighting Polish breedings, fighting Polish farmers. You're standing with people from the Open Cage Foundation, with people from the Viva Foundation! You are standing and you are happy because they have passed rules striking Polish farmers. [[Voice from the room: Leave them alone.]] These people have passes. You're standing with them in front of the Sejm. You introduced them to the Sejm, you cooperated with them, helped them to do the work of destroying the Polish breeding sector, destroying the meat processing sector, destroying the livestock farming. You were proud of that. Because Minister Ardanowski, Minister of your Government, Prime Minister, was against it because he wanted to look Polish farmers in the face, and he opposed it, he had to leave. You have replaced Minister Ardanowski as a useful tool for President Kaczyński. You're an honorless man, given the circumstances of your becoming Minister of Agriculture. You feel it perfectly. The farmers feel it, and they don't accept you. That's why you had to rent agricultural machinery so you could show up against them. Ordinary farmers don't want to see you on their farms unless they only watch TVP Info and think you're very successful. In fact, you act against the interests of Polish farmers. Now I'm gonna show you. A few things you're looking for, your party, your government, Prime Minister, in the international arena. European Green Deal. You're not reporting a veto on this. You don't say anything as a minister on this matter. Your officials in the European Union go to all these EU meetings and agree with this. What's that gonna do? Radical restriction of plant protection products. Prohibition of use of fertilisers at the current level. Prohibition of use of 10% agricultural land. [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] As a result, increase in costs, decrease in production, cheap imports from outside the European Union, change, decrease in the volume of all Polish agricultural production. Even the experts of the European Commission admit that exactly this will result in export dependence, and you will do nothing. And this is where you talk about your visions. Another case you support in the EU arena. A ban on cage farming when 80% of the poultry sector is cage rearing, mostly in Europe. What you support will hit the Polish farmer. Talk about it on TVP Info, talk about it here. You've given us three minutes, twice 15 minutes plus you don't know how much, because you have the right. Tell the truth, tell the farmers the truth. You even want to ban cage-breeding calves and dungeons. How do you imagine that? Have you ever been to the farm? Have you spoken to the farmers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How's that supposed to look? Your MEPs, the MEPs of the PIS supported this. You didn't stand up for yourself at the committee meeting. Two hours was said by your deputy, who was also rewarded for five animals. To show up with the farmers, you have to borrow machines. Shame. Step aside, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u541	Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050. [[Voice from the room: Specialist.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u542	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that today assures us that the PiS government ministers are increasingly satisfied with themselves. It's just a pity that people are getting less and less content with them. [[Applause]] There are two philosophies of power. The first is the power that serves the citizen. The other is citizens who serve power. [[Voice from the room: It wasn't us.]] [[Voice from the hall: This does not apply to us.]] You, Minister, are deeply immersed in the other way of acting. [[You're going back to the P.O.?]] Do you serve as a minister to citizens, farmers? When you talk to the farmers about you, they first ask: Minister Puda? Does he even exist? Whoever saw it, whoever knows. A handful of quotes, ladies and gentlemen. These are the titles of press publications: Minister Puda does not give interviews in the industry press, disappeared from the field of view, the association of veterinarians accuses Grzegorz Puda that talks are held without the minister. I could multiply. These titles are really very many. Maybe you work in the Sejm. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister as Minister, in his capacity as Minister, he has not spoken once in the Sejm, not once. [[Voice from the room: What should I say?]] It's true. So maybe he was on the Sejm committee. Well, I would like to tell you that the Minister logged into the Parliamentary Committee once, and then logged out of it very quickly. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: Hero.]] [[Voice from the room: Earned.]] No, Minister, you don't serve the people, you don't serve the farmers. I think you only serve your own luxury, because I think that's what this function is all about. I'm not gonna bully you anymore, reminding you of these outrageous incidents about your discontent because there was no VIP pass because the hotel wasn't exclusive enough. [[He was without a roof.]] [[8-star.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What the Polish village describes today is a few words: ASF, avian influenza, inflation, which consumes profits, problems with agricultural insurance, poverty, etc. 700 million PLN per ASF," said Mr Telus. Where's the money? Because they don't produce any results. What are you doing with the money? [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Embargo for Polish apples. I'd like to remind you who's been in charge for six years. PiS. Veterinary inspection. You say, "Today comes out what you've ruined." Who's been in charge for six years? [[Voices from the room: PiS.]] PiS. [[Voice from the hall: How is Madonna?]] Aids to farmers. And who has a commissioner in the European Union? [[Voices from the room: PiS.]] PiS. [[Voice from the hall: Poland.]] And last question: Who destroyed Polish agriculture? [[Voices from the room: PiS.]] PiS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u543	Mrs Magdalena Sroka, Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u544	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have an A for Puda for you today. First of all, the ineffective fight against ASF. The fact that the minister can't handle the ASF is not news. There is no action plan in this area. The group set up to fight the ASF consists of the same people who have been responsible for combating this disease for years with the same mediocre effectiveness. The strange fact that on such an important point is: the minister himself, the industry himself. It is the pig farmers in the areas affected by the disease that are currently in a dramatic situation. It is their farms that fall, and the breeders themselves lose their wealth and the achievements of many generations. [[Voice from the hall: What do you know about the flock?]] No. 2: Bird flu. Apart from ASF, it is the most severe loss in agriculture. The damage this disease has caused is not honestly compensated by the state. There is no guarantee of compensation in the budget. [[Voice from the room: There they are.]] Therefore, the administrative procedure and the deferred assessment of the damage are prolonged. This causes market disruption, and will soon also result in mass bankruptcy in the poultry industry. No 3: underfunded for years Veterinary inspection indicates lack of resources, low salaries, lack of staff. [[Voice from the room: What did Deputy Prime Minister Gowin do?]] It's gotta stop. [[Voice from the room: What was Gowin doing?]] We need a strong, good veterinary inspection. What does it look like today? Vacations, joint positions. Let me just remind you that we have at our disposal a recommendation from the Directorate-General of the European Commission on health and food safety, which has made mistakes and what should be changed. No 4: protection of the Polish market. We know what rights govern the functioning of the Community market. Let us ask ourselves this question, which actions are taken by the governments of Germany or Spain, that it pays to the producers there to export the flock to Poland. What support can they expect from the fact that tons of pork enter Poland? And our producers are suffering losses. Is anyone in the ministry interested in the profitability of pig farming? After all, most farmers out on the streets today, along with Agrounia, are desperate breeders. No. 5: Agriculture is not a raccoon. The Minister of Agriculture is an important position, crucial in every government. The minister's work is not about touring selected farms, eating lunch and having a photo session, sometimes (The bell) with the Prime Minister on the basis of rented machines. We had a good minister of agriculture - Minister Ardanowski, who enjoyed the respect of the Polish village, who was able to conduct dialogue. You traded him for a minister whose name no one remembers... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u545	Thank you, Commissioner, you have run out of time. Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u546	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to make an objective assessment of your work, which is why I haven't even read the applicants' application for your appeal, [[Applause]] Because I'm guessing there may have been political motives, I guess there was nothing there that could particularly commend you. So I asked the source, asked the farmers what they thought of you. I made a few calls, and I have to tell you that farmers have a lot of difficulty, and they don't have anything to accuse you of because they don't know what you do. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I don't know if that's flattering for you. Nevertheless, they would like you to get involved in matters of the Polish village. You may be doing something, but they don't know it. It would be worth it if you showed up, whether it's on the Parliament's stand or on the committee or directly at a meeting with the farmers to explain it. If there's something going on at the agricultural ministry, it's worth it for farmers to know. So I think that at least today you will come out, Minister, to the speaker, say, face all these arguments. I wish your speech hadn't focused on what was before, what was behind the PSL, what was behind the ZSL and before. Focus on what you've done for nearly a year. Maybe this will explain something to the farmers, and I will also have an objective assessment. I expect that very much. Come on in. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u547	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Grzegorz Puda will now speak. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: First time.]] [[Some Members chant and hit their desktops: For the first time! First time! First time!]] [[First time and last time.]] [[Voice from the hall: Beata Szydło was also defended for one day.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u548	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We all have a great debt of gratitude to farmers... [[Dear farmers, we have nothing for you.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Snapshot! Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Grzegorz Puda: ...for providing Polish food security so well... [[My name is Grzegorz Puda first.]] ...that even at such a difficult time pandemics care about food security in our homeland. Unlike many European countries, food was not lacking at this difficult time. [[Give him the tractor.]] This is a great achievement of Polish farmers and a reason to thank them. Dear farmers, with all my heart as Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, I also wanted to thank you as an ordinary citizen for this. Thank you. [[Applause]] I would also like to thank the PSL Members for the initiative of this vote, because thanks to it we have the opportunity to remind Poles what the countryside and agriculture looked like before the PSL and the Civic Platform. [[Six years you rule...]] [[Talk about yourself.]] When you read the justification of the letter, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot fail to get the impression that the only source of your knowledge about agriculture and the activities of our resort is several newspapers and portals famous for years with many manipulations. The most important arguments, the allegations are directly analyzing the articles of these portals and these newspapers. E.g. The Member State of PSL recklessly repeats the content of how supposedly in one of the farms visited by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki there was no equipment belonging to the host. Of course, none of you have checked the facts. You attacked the Prime Minister and the Minister at the expense of the host. But PSL doesn't care about farmers' harm. 23 farm machinery and nine dealer machines were presented on the farm. The Prime Minister stood in front of a modern farmer at this meeting... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Some Members scream and hit their desktops]] [[Voice from the hall: You can't tell a farmer from a tractor.]] A modern tractor owned by a farmer. What is important, the farmer we visited also maintains that he rents these agricultural machinery. You insulted and hurt the host with a talk. You laughed at him as a poor guy and a loser. And I assure you, this is a very resourceful, honest and entrepreneurial host. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo! Bravo!]] The same is true of the argument that I visit only those farms that have several hundred hectares each. Of course, I see no reason not to visit these farms, but I must tell you that this is not what you say it is. It is not that in PSL someone went to at least a bit of trouble to check this information and to obtain reliable information about the farms I visited. [[You visit farms at every airport.]] I received many invitations from farmers to various farms, but the sharpenings applied during the COVID-19, as you should know, did not allow all of them to be used. In the period since May of this year, which is since the loosening of the sharpening... [[You take care of COVID, not ASF.]] ...I had the privilege of visiting the farms, among which were six, and ten, and 15 hectares. [[Like an airport.]] Almost every visit was connected to a meeting with a group of local farmers. Since I took office as Minister in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, 338 meetings have been held with farmers and agricultural organisations. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] It is a pity that PSL only reads selected titles, uses selected media, including those specializing in manipulations, which have little to do with agricultural issues. [[What about the leftist organizations?]] This is not how the Polish village looks - they write in connection with the vote members of PSL, because their modern farms are razed. You're threatened by a thriving farm run with an idea. Unfortunately, the PO-PSL governments have done so much damage to agriculture... [[Voice from the hall: 6 years you're rolling up agriculture. Six years.]] ...that we still have a lot of work to do in reconstruction and development. The decommissioning of factories, the decommissioning of communications, the liquidation of police stations, the lack of investment... [[Do you believe that? Do you believe that?]] Member, please sit down immediately. Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Grzegorz Puda: ...taking care only of the development of large industrial farms has done their job. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Member, I warn you. Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Grzegorz Puda: It destroys easily, ladies and gentlemen, but it rebuilds much harder. Not much, PSL even started mocking the value of the Polish village. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Under the command of President Kosiniak-Kamish, who is present here... [[It's the first time we've seen him.]] ...has gone side by side with the representatives of the gender revolution who wanted to destroy the family and negate the laws of nature. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Its representatives, led by Mrs Spurek, believe that cow breeding is a violation of rights. They fight to ban meat, kill people as human rights, and fight violently against Catholics. The Polish farmer was despised. You can't defend the farmers... [[Voice from the hall: Fishing.]] [[Voice from the hall: Fungi.]] You can't defend the farmers... [[You can't either.]] Mrs Skowrońska, this is the last time I warn you. Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Grzegorz Puda: ... insulted by your colleagues. Apparently these are also the views of PSL. You're trying to prove in PSL that you care about the Polish village, but it's not the same village you abandoned for power. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Suddenly you are pretending to care about family farms, while farmers from small family farms remember that it is your government, the PSL government, that the welfare money is unnecessary for Polish farmers. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You have not applied for this money to the European Union... [[You took the cattle subsidies from 30 to 20.]] ...you didn't protect livestock farming on small farms. It was only at the initiative of Law and Justice, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, that we asked the European Commission for a change and introduced a programme on animal welfare, which not only enjoyed great interest among farmers, but also required several increases in resources. Of course, you ridiculed and criticized this initiative. PSL deleted the horse from the list of welfare payments. But don't worry, I fixed your mistake and added a horse to the list of animals subject to welfare payments. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] For the first time in Janów's history, the horse stud received a capital injection of almost PLN 7.5 million... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You ruined it.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] ...and in Polish Lada there was the first long-term support program in the history of horse breeding. You say the government can't handle ASF, you blame the government for the fact that farmers stop breeding pigs. And how did you manage in your reign? After the opening of the first outbreaks of your party, Mr Kosiniak-Kamish, in 2014, he ordered, instead of taking immediate action to prevent the spread of the disease, that work on regulations to reduce the number of pig holdings. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voices from the room: scandal! Scandal!]] You've reduced the number of pig farms. Few were to receive only compensation for the slaughter of pigs, without compensation for the loss of income. At the same time, the re-breeding of pigs on the holding was to be prohibited. [[Voice from the room: Unbelievable.]] [[Scandal!]] This inaction of the Minister of Agriculture of PSL led to a huge increase in the population of feral pigs and a dynamic increase in the number of ASF outbreaks. Today, the threat of ASF has become a problem not only in Poland but also in Europe, one can say, even in the world. By comparison, what does the fight with ASF look like right now? We were thinking not only of the ongoing fight against ASF, but also of the forward-looking one, including the reconstruction of farms that suffered heavy losses. The allegation of a decrease in the number of pig holdings is answered by the stock recovery programme following the occurrence of the ASF. Its five pillars aimed at farmers include support for bioinsurance, equalisation of lost income, cover of civil law obligations and the provision of low-interest loans for the reconstruction of pig population. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] As I stress, this is the first integrated program in history to launch several available and possible support tools at one time. The amount of the programme, ladies and gentlemen, amounts to nearly PLN 200 million. If there's a shortage of that money, I'm sure that's what the program's gonna be for. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] In general, the amount of resources allocated by the government to the fight against ASF, ladies and gentlemen, amounts to 234 446 thousand. zł... [[Voice from the room: 2 billion for TV.]] ...if, on the other hand, the measures envisaged for combating ASF and avian influenza, ladies and gentlemen, would be more than PLN 0.5 billion. In total, for the implementation of these programmes and support for farmers affected by pandemic losses, animal diseases, natural disasters, bankruptcy of intermediaries, etc. During my term of office we have mobilised a total amount of over PLN 1747 million. [[Applause]] [[But, hello, how much is bread? Minister, how much is bread?]] An additional element that significantly improves the fight against ASF is the creation of further regional official laboratories for the diagnosis of ASF. This is very important. In Włocławek, in the Piotrkowski district. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] The new laboratories are strategically important in terms of diversification in the case of diagnostic tests of pigs. These labs were being decommissioned by PSL. [[What about Mielecki? What about Mielecki?]] [[Voice from the room: Mask.]] [[Voice from the room: Mask.]] Mrs Skowrońska, I would like to point out that you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm. The next step will be a financial penalty. Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Grzegorz Puda: I have also decided that the remuneration rates in veterinary inspection units that have been in place since 2013 must be increased. When I saw the staffing needs in the age of the avian epidemic, I asked for an increase of 604 posts in the inspection. [[But how much is bread?]] [[Voice from the room: There is no bread.]] When you started to be responsible for agriculture, ladies and gentlemen, there were more than 18 million pigs in Polish farmers' holdings, less than 11.5 million in 2013. During the 6 years of your time, the pig population in Poland fell by more than 6 million pieces. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] And this happened when there was no ASF in Poland. The conclusion is simple: your governments were far worse for pig farmers than the ASF. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] After the failures of your negotiations in the European Union, we have corrected your mistakes, so that the vast majority of Polish farmers will receive subsidies. There is an alignment to the average level of the European Union, even above this level. We have negotiated EUR 34.5 billion for agriculture in the EU for the next 7 years, or PLN 157 billion, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] PLN 157 billion is more than EUR 4 billion in the European Union's 2018 draft budget prepared by the European Commission with the participation of your Commissioner, Commissioner Bieńkowska. Meanwhile, PSL MEPs spoke about farmers: peasants, come to mind, most Poles do not earn so well. Like you guys. Yes, those are the words of your fellow Members. That's what he said, among other things. Mr Eugeniusz Trouble. In addition to the disdain for the farmers you showed in your votum, the PSL state has also shown itself to be a gigantic cynicism. There's some gibberish about it, because how else do you name what you write about trade relations with Russia? Russia is subject to the trade embargo introduced by the European Union, which was introduced after Russian aggression against Ukraine. It happened under the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] And now I'm just going to remind you what the PSL's reaction to the Russian embargo was. Your minister, the Minister of PSL, called farmers losers because in the face of the risk of bankruptcy by the Russian embargo, they disposed of apples for pennies. I quote in favour of your minister: apples are no different, ours are better than Germans, while our producers are dumber than Germans, and they either start peeking and applying the same thing, or they will constantly complain and expect the minister to solve it for them. These are the words of your minister, Minister of PSL. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[But about your accomplishments, the word.]] Mr. President Kosiniak-Kamish! It was also a disdain for farmers and their work to call on PSL to smoke grain in kilns due to the high yield. This crop might have been equally well intended for animal feed, but the import of feed from abroad continued all the time. First to criticism, the last to work - so you can sum up the opposition activities of PSL. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Mr Kosiniak-Kamish has recently been fighting for business - now he is also showing: on Twitter - and farmers seem to only see youTube. Mr. President, at home you may be as brave as a tiger, but in politics you turned out to be just a scary pig. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Who wrote this to you?]] Our government meets the demands of farmers and agricultural organisations on one of the key issues - the disposal of the farm at retirement. The proposed Act on Family Farms will introduce an obligation to cease agricultural activity in exchange for retirement. Allegedly, there's nothing going on in our ministry for laws? It's worth a look. She didn't write, so in PSL they don't know. From 6 October to 14 September this year, the Council of Ministers adopted nine draft laws, 38 draft regulations of the Council of Ministers, and I, as Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, signed 117 regulations. [[And this is hard work?]] For the first time, the Law and Justice Government has set up additional aid for beekeepers. [[Applause]] In 2021 they received financial assistance of PLN 20 for each winter bee family. We don't tell fairy tales, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] We roll up our sleeves and work. We are now preparing a package of changes that completely redefine the agricultural insurance system. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] We and without this increased the amount of agricultural insurance payments by 100% compared to your amounts. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] I will add: a record increase in agricultural expenditure, rural development, agricultural markets, fishing, KRUS. European budget expenditure planned for 2022 will amount to 57.2 billion. We have allocated nearly 900 million to agricultural and livestock insurance subsidies. 571 million more for the Veterinary Inspection, including the fight against infectious animal diseases. Increase in expenditure on Agricultural Social Insurance Fund by almost 260 million. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The policy of the government of PSL and the Platform was to lead to the withdrawal of the state from participation in units fulfilling a strategic role for Polish agriculture. [[Talk about yourself.]] The culmination, the model of what you were doing in this area, was the establishment of a team to draw up a list of companies for restructuring, privatisation and liquidation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: For liquidation.]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]] Fortunately, in 2015 the parliamentary elections won by our party blocked this process. The companies mentioned above - I have to worry you - are still functioning despite many restructuring processes. They're functioning. To this day they function alone or in structures of other entities... [[...the liquidation of Polish agriculture.]] But, Mr. President Kamish, it is not that you and your party were not praised for your rule. We could learn from the recordings in a restaurant that your coalitionists and some influential businessman praised you very much, and I quote: being a cool boyfriend and carrying out the two worst reforms in the history of free Poland, increasing the retirement age and reform of an open pension fund. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] [[The recordings are Morawiecki's.]] [[Voice from the room: A bowl of rice.]] [[Kaczyński's Five, five.]] Unfortunately, your successes were a drama of Poles. The decline of agriculture after more than 20 years of PSL rule in various rural configurations is a huge challenge. Despite the pandemic, despite the still thrown by you by the total opposition, the logs are not slowing down. [[Voice from the room: Time is up.]] [[You're slowing down the farmers.]] And here must be bad news for PSL, but good news for Poland. [[Voices from the room: Time.]] Polish village will be modern, will be safe, but will also remain a bastion of values such as tradition, culture, family, faith and patriotism. [[Applause]] [[As long as you're in charge, it won't be safe.]] This will be served by projects included in the Polish Rural Order, which will soon be announced. This is supported by the initiatives included in the PiS programme. The budget of the Polish Rural and Agricultural Deal in 2030 takes into account the assumption that the average annual expenditure that we will bear on the initiatives of the Polish Rural and Agricultural Deal will amount to 72.4 billion. [[Something's not ringing.]] This appropriation is also intended to cover expenditure on investments using European funds, including the Fund for Reconstruction. This list of neglects, ladies and gentlemen, scandals and disasters in Polish agriculture after the government of PSL is so long that unfortunately today I will not be able to present all this in the time of the vote, but, if I may at the end, ladies and gentlemen, if you don't mind... [[Voice from the room: Time is up.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] ...I would like to dedicate a fragment from Mr. Tadeusz's Civic Platform to you from the PSL, the Left. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Have a good trip. It's time, Minister.]] [[Okay, okay, you better quote Lenin.]] Stupid bear! If you were sitting in a motherfucking suit, the Army would never know about you. You've filed a complaint against yourself, ladies and gentlemen. This is your late vote against your own governments. You've made a report to Polish farmers on your own. Thank you very much. [[The voice from the hall: It's just like Pud.]] [[But you picked that quote, man.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Bear, come back.]] [[Voice from the room: Boring on the poodle.]] [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u549	I now ask the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to speak. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Morawiecki, how much is bread?]] Mr Nitras, I warn you. [[I'm greeting you, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u550	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You want to talk about the Polish village today. I do not even wonder, because Polish village, Polish agriculture is the biggest remorse of the party's conscience, which is responsible for the Third Republic, parties which are responsible for the so-called. transformation. [[Voices from the hall: How much does bread cost? How much bread?]] [[Kaczynski once...]] This is a great remorse and therefore it is worth to show this great difference between how farmers treated the parties of the Third Republic of Poland and what great value farmers, agriculture, the Polish village, for us, Law and Justice have. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the hall: What about the land under Wrocław?]] [[And you speak here as you or as Prime Minister?]] For us the Polish village is not only a reservoir of huge values, traditions, faith and culture, it is also a very modern sector of the entire national economy. This is also a hope for export, this is our food security. And that is why we defend the Polish village and we will not give you back the Polish village. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: This is our bread.]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[There's only hope left. Oh, the owner of the Polish village found himself.]] But here we were asked how often we meet farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, quite often. Too rarely, I fight in the chest, I would like even more often, but I met very often recently and often asked Polish farmers what they thought about how the governments of the Platform, PSL, earlier governments looked like. And you know what they remember perfectly? [[How much is bread?]] [[Voice from the room: Ask what yours looks like.]] [[A bowl of rice, a bowl of rice they remember.]] Who is the undertaker of Polish agriculture, Polish transformation, Mr Leszek Balcerowicz. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The bank president talked about it.]] And somehow quite recently at your meeting he reminded himself of this Mr Leszek Balcerowicz, who led to the collapse of thousands of Polish farms, to the great tragedy of the PGR villages. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[But it was President Kaczyński who supported Balcerowicz's plan, the only one in this room.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Mr Snapshot... It was a great disgrace you committed. [[Applause]] This is your great remorse. [[Voice from the room: It's over.]] [[And how much does Balcerowicz have of post-PGR land?]] And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, when I see Mr. Leszek Balcerowicz back at your meetings... The password you threw, Balcerowicz must come back, it is frightening in the countryside. [[Five, too. Five against the farmers.]] [[Voice from the hall: And how did you buy land without being a farmer?]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Balcerowicz absolutely cannot return. God, protect me from the Balcerowicz. God, protect them from returning to the country. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is a very great responsibility to be the Minister of Agriculture. [[Voice from the room: But you are not him.]] I wanted to thank our agriculture ministers who preceded Minister Puda in this position, Minister Jurgiel, Minister Ardanowski for his changes in the Polish countryside. [[Applause]] For taking care of the Polish farmer here, in Poland, and also there, in the Union. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Yes, because it's not true what you said about the negotiated measures. We have negotiated EUR 34.5 billion. [[Voice from the room: Where is it?]] This is the highest amount in the history of our presence in the Union. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the gym: Have you signed up for your wife yet?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there are a lot of things to do in the Polish countryside all the time. I remember Mr. Kaczmark's book, printed in the underground, there is no more important matter. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] There's nothing to laugh about. There is no more important matter - yes - for us, for Law and Justice... [[Than the Treasury companies.]] ...for the United Right than Polish agriculture. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo! Bravo!]] But we also realize how many things there are to fix... [[List of 100 people to companies of the State Treasury.]] ...the great problems we face, inherited from you in the vast majority, such as ASF, African swine fever. But here we see this very fundamental difference. [[How does your wife manage on these hectares?]] Because we, ladies and gentlemen, have built a stable system by sealing the financial system, and we have so much money to compensate for lost income... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[...that Ursusa...]] ...as long as it takes. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] [[Oh, fairy tales.]] 200 million is now. If we need more, we'll give more. [[Applause]] The same problem is, of course, bird flu. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Put your mask on.]] It is a terrible disease of birds, but here we have also allocated an unprecedented amount to Polish farmers. [[How much, how much?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're with farmers for better or worse. [[Voice from the hall: Even the wife has a farmer.]] We are in a time of beauty, in such beautiful days as harvest festivals, but we are also when farmers are flooded with fields when they lose their apples after graduating. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] We are also with them when the drought is decimating the crops. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Lies.]] [[You just don't pay compensation.]] Speaking of droughts, how much have they paid, dear farmers, PSL and Platform of Polish farmers for drought in 2015? [[Voice from the room: Delays in payouts.]] [[Voice from the room: How much?]] 450 million PLN - less. And how much did Law and Justice pay in 2018 and 2019 due to comparable drought? [[Room voice: 4.5.]] About 2.5 billion PLN. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Billions.]] And that's the difference between you and me. Mr Płuda, too, makes sure that these payments, compensations, are quickly made to farmers. But, ladies and gentlemen, as the Ministry itself indicates, this is the Ministry Not only agriculture, but also rural development... [[Voice from the room: Oh.]] ...and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we ensure that the chances of life of Polish farmers and residents of the Polish village are comparable to those of the cities, because the Polish farmer has the right to live at a similar level. [[Applause]] That is why I often talk to our Members about how to invest in what has been so tragically neglected in your time. These are water and sewage investments in the Polish village. Ask how many there are now and how many there were in your day. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] These are investments in municipal and district roads: seven, eight times more expenditure on Polish roads. [[Highways, highways.]] That's 13,000. more investments covering roads in Polish villages, in Polish municipalities than in your governments. That's also the standard of living. [[Expensive electricity and expensive fuel.]] Dear Polish farmers, villagers, you know perfectly well that the construction of a treatment plant, the construction of a water and sewage network, the construction of a gas network is very important to you. [[That's the gas that costs more.]] And look at how much we spend on the Polish countryside and how much PSL and Platform have spent. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: And bravo.]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen, on our show... [[Voice from the room: This is not your program.]] ...which we realize and which should be implemented to a greater extent... [[You don't have a show.]] ...and which in two and a half weeks we will present in greater detail, there are so many things that are fundamental for the Polish village. [[The ASF will continue to develop.]] It is on the one hand the appreciation of Polish farmers and their hard work, which we can see, which we owe to Polish farmers: food security and great exports, the pride of the Polish economy, [[Applause]] and, on the other hand, it is also a help, for the first time, to those who care about the Polish tradition, to the groups of rural hostesses. Thank you to the wonderful women, to the economy and to the exceptional. [[Applause]] It was the Government of Law and Justice that proposed permanent payments to the rural hostess' circles. But we remember the same about those who guard security in the Polish village... [[Boundaries.]] ...volunteous firefighters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Firefighters.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And for them, to your horror, we also have a special program... [[You were going to take them out.]] ...a program for volunteer firefighters. And there's our bill that appreciates bridesmaids and bridesmaids. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[On behalf of Waldemar, thank you.]] It is also, ladies and gentlemen, to be with farmers in these difficult times, as I mentioned, droughts, hails, submersions, natural disasters. [[Voice from the O.R.: You're not here.]] That's where I want to hit my chest. Our insurance scheme hasn't been enough for farmers so far, it's true, and we're learning from it. The program we're going to present will definitely be much, much better and I hope it will be one of the best... [[Better.]] ...in Europe, farmers' programmes. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: In the world.]] [[In the universe.]] Because we, ladies and gentlemen, unlike you, are not ashamed of the Polish village, we are proud of the Polish village. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[We're buying land.]] The Polish village is the site of Polishness, the site of Polish tradition and therefore in Polish Łódź the Polish village occupies a very prominent place, dedicated to it is the biggest chapter... [[Voice from the room: 4%.]] ...which will be presented in very detail, as I said, soon. [[The chapters are you guys with fat.]] But it is also worth it, ladies and gentlemen, dear farmers, to look at what resources we have spent together on the Polish village... [[20 billion less in the budget.]] ...for social policy, for pensions for Polish farmers, for a Polish farmer to live decently and not work 12 years longer, as in the case of pensions proposed by Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace! Disgraceful! Shame!]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, PSL unfortunately did not care about the Polish village... [[Some Members chant: A bowl of rice! A bowl of rice! A bowl of rice!]] ...and we show what is most important to the Polish village. We know how much more needs to be done, and in the ASF case, and in insurance, and in many other areas. Prices are also inappropriate, because fertilizers are too expensive, and inflation is high. [[How much does it cost?]] [[Voice from the hall: How much is bread?]] That's a big problem, I admit. This is actually a big problem. [[Voice from the room: A bowl of rice?]] That is why we are dealing with the economy as a whole, so we are trying to help Polish agriculture in the... [[Voice from the room: Dismissed.]] ...who's been unheard of so far. And thank you to Minister Puda, thank you to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, that he is fighting for the Polish village, the Polish farmer to live at a decent level, at least such as the inhabitants of large agglomerations. After Poland is one, also for farmers. [[Applause]] Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Gentlemen! Today I have one request for you not to disturb, because the Polish village is a Polish state right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Cancel...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Some Members get up and chant: Matthew! Matthew!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u551	Thank you, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We'll proceed to the vote in three, four minutes. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 mins 12 h 23 min 15]] I'm reopening the session. The formal proposal was made by Mr Boris Budka... In view of the proposal to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and hearings in discussions of five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles in the case of printing No. 1566 concerning the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law amending the excise duty Act, as well as in the case of printing No. 1544, concerning the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law - Construction law and the law on spatial planning and development, were objected. We will therefore resolve this matter in the vote. We proceed with the vote on print report 1566. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of shortening the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and a hearing in discussions of five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles in the case of print report No. 1566, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Resump will it be?]] I'm sorry, I don't have one, but I'll read it from here. 449 Members voted. For - 232, 217 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on print report 1544. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of shortening the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and a hearing in discussions of five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles in the case of print report 1544, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 232 for, 217 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. We would like to return to the discussion of item 22 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development by Mr Grzegorz Puda. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development of Grzegorz Puda will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. In - 214, against - 233, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the request to express a vote of distrust to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, Grzegorz Puda, against not obtaining the required majority of votes. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[Voice from the room: It's not fair.]] [[And what's the point of doing that?]] That's where we ended the vote. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the excise duty Act (Prints 1510 and 1566). I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u552	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Committee on Energy, Climate and Treasury at its meeting yesterday gave a positive opinion on all the amendments tabled to this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u553	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Suski, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u554	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill, according to the debate, supports all clubs. We also maintain our support and ask all of you to support this law, because it is good for about 800 entities that will benefit from it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u555	Please take the floor of Mr Paul Pontylius, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u556	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Club has not tabled any amendments. We support this law, but it is worth recalling that the excise tax law is being examined by the Energy Commission. This is not a coincidence, because it is another law in the so-called. set the package lex Obajtek. In fact, this law serves primarily to enable Mr. Obajtek to take over Lotus and sell those assets for which the European Commission does not agree to be concentrated within the framework of the Polish Petroleum Concerto Orlen. [[Because capital has nationality.]] And that's all there is to it. You're running a wild Lotus privatisation. You will have to sell almost 400 gas stations, 30% of the shares of the Gdansk Refinery. Orlen will have to invest in restructuring the Gdansk Refinery. You must also sell Orlen Asfalt and some of the fuel warehouses in Poland. That's the wild privatisation of the PiS. And this bill is innocent, it serves entrepreneurs, e.g. To the bottlenecks, to those who have vineyards and produce wine. They will be able to close their tax warehouses, sell them to someone else, and they will not have to pay excise duty right away. But let us be aware in this House that this is just a change of law, which was inspired by Orlen, not created in the care of bottlers, winemakers, those who have wholesalers of alcohols, cigarettes or some other excise goods. That's the real reason. And the problem is that Orlen, as well as all other fuel and energy companies, instead of dealing with energy transformation, will now play with various types of integrations, divisions, reorganisations and, above all, spent tens of millions of zlotys, and maybe hundreds of millions of zlotys on various types of consulting, legal, lobbyist, advertising companies. And that's really what you're talking about in the whole combination, because the economic effect, there's not gonna be any benefit out of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u557	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Club will be presented by Mr Wiesław Szczepański. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u558	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday we had our first reading of this bill. The project went to committee, there were only amendments that improved the bill, and editorial amendments. My club supported these amendments. The law goes out to entrepreneurs who are doing business today in the field of tax warehouse. I think it primarily solves the problems of those entrepreneurs who today have the production of articles related to excise duties. Let me be brief: we don't make any amendments, my club will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u559	Thank you, sir. Mr Czesław Siekierski, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u560	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the discussions so far, the positives of the proposed solutions of the parliamentary draft law on amending the excise tax law were clearly highlighted. This will allow you to continue, take over tax warehouses without inhibitions. Of course, there are certain procedures which are necessary in such situations, as this concerns financial, tax problems and there must be a certain transparency here. In general, all clubs support these solutions, although we had comments on how to prepare, present, and also on the objectives to be served - mainly related to the transformations concerning Orlen. However, we believe that the proposed simplifications will in some way facilitate, at the same time reduce the difficulty of taking over, as I said at the outset, tax warehouses. Hence, the club will support these solutions and we will vote in favour of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u561	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń on behalf of the Polska 2050 wheel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u562	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the draft law amending the excise duty Act, print No 1510, after presentation of the report of the committee - print No 1566. High Izbo! As has already been mentioned, the aim of the project is to implement solutions that meet the interests of entrepreneurs, expectations of entrepreneurs. These rules will avoid the need for businesses to pay excise duties when the tax warehouse is subject to ownership transformations. Of course, this is a law that goes in the right direction, and that is what I also talked about at first reading. On the other hand, we must be aware - here too I agree with my previous speakers - that there would not have been this law if it had not been for the establishment of Law and Justice. In fact, the basis of this law, I am firmly convinced of this - as it seems, most Members who present the position of their clubs and wheels, also - that the basis of this project is merely to avoid the need to pay excise duty in the procedure for the merger of Orlen with Lotus. Of course, the question should be asked how appropriate this is for the interests of the State Treasury. Well, because the merger itself raises very serious doubts, and I'm gonna ask you that. On the other hand, situations where transactions are carried out, in principle only in order to build a group corresponding only to and exclusively to some personal ambition, should not occur. There is, I would say, a spoon, or maybe even a whole barrel of clay on this bill, but due to the spoon of honey, which concerns entrepreneurs, Poland 2050 will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u563	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome. [[Can we switch?]] But time is ticking. Okay, I don't know, I don't have you on the list yet, I don't see it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u564	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I just wanted to ask you about the issue I mentioned, the question of connecting Lotus with Orlen, because this is a thing that raises great doubts. [[That's not true. What did you do to me? You guys are normal...]] My question is: What amount of excise duty is involved in avoiding payment of this tax? Secondly, exactly which units will be sold? Because the fact that you're gonna have to sell off some of this property is obvious. This will affect the interests of the combined group in a negative way. The question is, which units are they gonna be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u565	Thank you, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. [[There isn't.]] Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u566	Is Minister Puda there? Are you asking a question? You're welcome. Yes, Your Marshal, you didn't give me the floor before. Because you didn't sign up in that order. Minister Puda! You lied to me from that pulpit, defending yourself against the motion for a vote of confidence. [[That's nice. What are you saying here?]] In the district of Mielecki there is the largest ASF fire. Farmers will never forget that there was no help, that there was a very high excise duty in the fuel. [[But to the point, my fellow Member.]] I take it this is about excise duty, right? And I would like to say that farmers at the meeting of the Agricultural Chamber applied for help and did not receive such aid. [[Member, wake up.]] The Prime Minister made a spectacle here. Farmers won't forget it. [[She said what she knew. Not about that.]] [[The rules allow you to say no about it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u567	Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u568	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a complicated country, but apparently a very tight VAT system. It was expanded due to the formation of the so-called. VAT mafias that they did, registering companies with pillars, tax fraud. Why have these experiences not been taken advantage of in the design of this project? The only document to guarantee the collection of excise duties due is to be carried out by the trader in stock. In this way, we repeat the mistakes made in the creation of the VAT Act. I understand that the basis for the proposed solutions is not the expectations of entrepreneurs, but the expectation of Orlen to introduce such solutions rather than other solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u569	Thank you. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u570	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly to Mr Pontylius. I'm taking this challenge. I think it is very important to talk transparently about what the fuel sector in Poland will look like in the next 10, 20 and 30 years, also the electricity sector. Let us remember that today the biggest threat is regulatory changes in the European Union and that today, under the influence of the European Union, this affects both Orlen and all companies of the State Treasury that operate in the electricity sector - with the actual privatisation of a large part of the Polish electricity sector. We need to talk about this in an absolutely transparent way. Let us talk about this in substance and transparently. I would just like the Civic Platform to be on this side, on which is the national interest of Poland, not the business of Brussels. These solutions, which are proposed today in Brussels, are directly affecting Poland's energy security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u571	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Minister Jan Sarnowski will answer the questions raised by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u572	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to thank you very much for the very warm adoption of this project by all parliamentary clubs. This is a positive change, expected by entrepreneurs, which will make it easier for them to transform, especially now, in the COVID era, when such steps, also on the part of excise warehouse operators, may be needed. I will answer Mrs Skowronska's question about fuel price. Yesterday I had the pleasure to inform you that the level of fuel taxation in Poland is not much higher than EU minima. That's where I'd like to quote the numbers. In the case of unleaded petrol, the Union minimum shall be 359 euro per 1000 l. In Poland, the excise duty together with the fuel levy amounts to EUR 373.68. [[But it could be lower.]] In the case of e.g. diesel can no longer be lower because the EU minimum is 330 euro and the tax rate in Poland - 330 cents and 15 cents. So that we're totally up against the wall here. There's no way to make any change. Once again, I would like to stress that fuel prices are due to the global market situation. In the EU field, we are a country in which the price of fuel is one of the lowest, not only in the region, but also in the whole of the European Union, adding also southern Europe or the poorer countries of our region. [[But the president promised otherwise.]] Madam, you had time to ask questions. You were talking about a completely different subject. [[The voice from the hall: Yes, because the minister said it wasn't true.]] [[You're famous for saying things that aren't true.]] Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: So there's no maneuver here. We will answer other questions in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u573	Thank you very much, Minister. Rapporteur? I don't want to. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Act - Construction Law and the Law on Planning and Spatial Planning (prints Nos 1534 and 1544). I kindly ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u574	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Commission: Infrastructure and Regional Government and Regional Policy, I present a report on the government draft law amending the Construction Law and the Law on Planning and Land Planning. The draft is contained in print No 1534 and the report of the joint committees is contained in print No 1544. High Izbo! The need for changes in this project is due to the need to provide simple and functional legal solutions for building single-family residential buildings to meet their own housing needs and to building small individual recreation buildings to meet the needs of rest. High Izbo! Poland does not end in big cities. In smaller towns where developers don't work, Poles also want to live in comfortable and functional houses. And that's why the rules are here. This project introduces the possibility of building such buildings in the so-called procedure. notification with a construction project without obtaining a building permit, without setting up a construction manager and keeping a construction log. Investor for the construction of a stand-alone two-storey single-family residential building up to 70 m High Izbo! The so-called procedure. notification with a construction project is that in accordance with Article. 30a of the Act - Construction law the competent local authority of the architectural and construction administration shall publish for a period of not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days the relevant information in the Public Information Bulletin, from where interested persons may draw information about the investment undertaken. In the procedure we are talking about here, the party is only the owner of the plot under construction. The building will be subject to notification of the completion of the construction referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 1 law - Construction law. High Izbo! The draft in question therefore amends Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Construction rights. After point 1 in that paragraph. 1 is added point 1a relating to one-family buildings with a building area of up to 70 m already discussed by me. High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 of this project is amended to the Law of 27 March 2003 on spatial planning and development. In the absence of a local plan, it is necessary to issue a decision on the conditions of construction, because the process of authorising the implementation of the investment is in Polish almost two stages, and the municipality has competence in the field of spatial management. It is a complicated and difficult procedure, requiring an analysis of the functions and characteristics of buildings and land development and numerous arrangements. This draft law provides for the facilitation of this decision, inter alia. clarification of the urban analysis area to three times the width of the ground front, but not less than 50 m, limitation of the parties' participation, because the party to the proceedings is the applicant. This decision for the building, i.e. the building's construction conditions for a single-family building, is to be issued within 21 days. However, this deadline does not include dates which are independent of the authority, i.e. the deadline for completing the application, the agreement to decide whether or not to carry out the environmental impact procedure if required. Nevertheless, the authority issuing the decision on the construction conditions will have to make efforts to carry out it efficiently, as a higher level of penalty may be imposed for delays in its issuance. High Izbo! Yesterday, the Joint Committees: Infrastructure and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy carried out the first reading of the draft Print Act No 1534 that I discussed here, and after its completion and after the rejection of the proposal to reject the project - and I would add that 12 Members voted against, 28 were against and 1 abstained - carried out detailed work on the project. Eight amendments to the Act, including an amendment clarifying the wording of point 1a in Article, were adopted in the course of this work. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Construction law to eliminate interpretation doubts concerning this provision, namely whether it is possible to build such a building on a plot less than 500 m High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, please adopt the draft contained in the report of the Joint Committee in print No 1544. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u575	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u576	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft law amending the Law - Construction Law and the Law on spatial planning and development, seym prints Nos 1534 and 1544. By amending the rules in force, the government decided to make it easier for young people to build a single-family residential building with a building area of up to 70 m As far as this need is concerned, the construction manager, it is a possibility. We're not leaving in the bill... The government doesn't walk away from this bill... This manager doesn't have to be there, but if the investor wants him to be a construction manager, he can still lead the construction. With regard to the proposal's abolition of the requirement for supervision of the construction manager, it should be stressed that this does not mean that it will be eliminated from this construction. It will still be possible to use its services. The investor will therefore obtain either the construction conditions for such objects within 21 days or the discharge and statement of the local status. These documents specify how to build, what are the technical conditions. The responsibility that the planned investment will be in line with the provisions that will be under construction conditions or in the local spatial planning plan shall be borne by the designer. The project does not abolish the technical and construction requirements laid down in the regulations, as I have already mentioned, and construction surveillance will control and receive such investments. The Ministry also proposes to prepare a database of free projects that can be used. It will be possible for any investor who wishes to benefit from it. This will reduce costs and improve safety. Simplification of house building rules up to 70 m
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u577	Thank you very much. The position of the Civic Coalition Club will be presented by Małgorzata Chmiel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u578	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I present an opinion on amending the laws - Construction Law and on planning and spatial planning. This project is a flagship project of PiS as part of the Polish Order. It's too bad it's such a bummer. [[Applause]] Unless the rulers introduced such records with full awareness, at the expense of many inhabitants, and for the profit of some developers. The project introduces the possibility of building houses with a building area up to 70 m [...] In the following provisions, the applicant indicated that the investor would have to take on the criminal liability which so far rested on the construction manager, who, I remind you, has adequate education, experience and above all insurance against civil liability in the event of errors or disasters, which, of course, the private investor will not have. Poles won't save much because the construction manager's salary doesn't exceed 2% the value of the construction. The government's proposal opens a door to home setting virtually without any control. It is stated that these houses will only be able to be built for the investor's own housing needs, on the basis of a statement. I ask: How will this be verified? Who's gonna stop selling the house after? It's a big legal gap, it's good for investors who want to make money quickly. When you report the construction of a house like this, you have to submit virtually the same amount of documents as when you make the decision to allow it. Projectors allow construction even on the date of submission of documentation, i.e. an architectural and construction body, there is no way to react in the absence of documentation. He was brought into storage. It can lead to many construction disasters. [[Applause]] The result of this bill will be architectural chaos, just like it happens in the gardens where everyone builds, as they want, and here changes are made for the worse. The project allows a ground-floor recreational building with a surface area of up to 70 m
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u579	Thank you. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Coalition Poland. Oh, no, I'm sorry, Mr Wiesław Szczepański, the Left Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u580	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I have the honour to present our position to the High House regarding the government draft law amending the Construction Law and the draft law on spatial planning contained in prints 1534 and 1544. Poland is struggling with a quantitative and qualitative housing deficit. Today about 1 million 900 thousand. people in Poland live on their own, more than 5 million Poles live in apartments in poor technical condition and under overpopulation conditions. In recent years, the government has done nothing to universally implement land-use plans, shortening the process of building permits, preventing urban flooding and demolishing public spaces. In Poland thousands of people cannot afford to build their own home, support is needed for this group, and therefore the left club voted for the Fund for Reconstruction and the associated National Plan for Reconstruction. Why? Because we were talking about 75 grand back then. low-cost apartments for rent, while the bill presented by the government today prefers individual construction, and if we look closely at it, it is simply developers. The project was sent to the Sejm in violation of the provisions of the Act on the Joint Government and Government Committee without the legal arrangements required. The project assumes that in the case of stand-alone construction, not more than two-storey single-family residential buildings with an area of up to 70 m Marshal, two more sentences, please. One. In a small municipality where there are no extensive organisational structures, but individual positions, with a large number of applications there will be paralysis and massive penalties or there will be a fiction of checking applications. My club is making a few improvements to this bill, but we realize they're not gonna help much. I think we're going to vote against this bill as a result. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u581	Thank you very much, sir. Corrections, right? Thank you. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u582	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It should be acknowledged that the proposed regulation responds to social expectations in terms of providing simple legal solutions for building single-family homes in order to meet their own housing needs. The regulation introduces the possibility of building single-family houses without obtaining a building permit, setting up a construction manager and keeping a construction log, in the so-called procedure. applications with a construction project. In the absence of a local spatial planning plan, a decision on the conditions of construction for such houses shall be taken within 21 days. The subject of the application, to which the project of land or land development and the architectural and construction project will have to be attached, will be a building with a building area of up to 70 m. Any reasonable solution that makes it easier for citizens to get their own home and meet the needs of their families deserves support. That is why we perceive the proposed regulation as a step in the right direction. It is worth recalling that similar rules were introduced by the Platform-PSL coalition. However, under the spoon the question arises as to whether the design of the regulation properly secures issues related to the full safety of building delivery and spatial governance and urban aesthetics. It should be borne in mind that, when submitting documentation in this procedure, the authority, the municipality, will not even have the competence to request the completion of the documents by the investor. It will be possible to submit an incomplete application, in fact even without a construction project, which will not even be joined by chance, and start construction immediately after delivery of the documents. The Authority may not even request completion of documentation or interruption of construction. It will be possible to submit such an application even without construction conditions. This is a certain kind of puriazum and can lead to major urban chaos. We also think that it is not justified to eliminate the possibility for the municipalities to verify the documentation. It seems reasonable, however, to maintain a certain opposition when the documentation is not in accordance with the regulations, incompatible with the local plan, construction conditions or taking place, for example. building a house in the woods. Because let us remember that according to this procedure you will be able to build a house in the woods and the commune body will not be able to block it in any way. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, there's no way to block this process. [[You haven't read...]] We don't want to... We consider part of the intention of this project to be right, but the construction process cannot be carried out without any control by the authorities of the municipality. Therefore, we would like to restore the possibility for the municipality to request that the documentation be completed, to object, so that there may even be some minimum control over this process. We welcome this legislative step, which we believe is a step in the right direction. We stress, however, that the government's policy lacks a coherent approach to the overall regulation of the subject effectively increase the accessibility of citizens to housing and homes, whether for their own or for rent. Unfortunately, the actions taken so far are only scrappy and not complex. However, the parliamentary club of the Polish Coalition and PSL tabled amendments. We depend on these amendments on the outcome of the final vote, but recognize the intention of the applicants that the project actually meets part of the expectations of Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u583	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, on behalf of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u584	The country's misfortune is that once a regime wants to allow a man on his own land to build a house for his own family without asking for the favor of some strangers in offices, the entire leftist opposition protests. I draw attention to the fact that people who protest against this small concession of bureaucracy for freedom are often the same people who have been shouting something like: you do not support abortion, do not make it. A few hours ago, there was a trade ban debate in this room on Sunday, and you said, "You don't want to work on Sunday, don't work." Here's my advice: you don't like houses built without permission, don't live in them, don't build them, don't buy them, don't look at them at all. It's gonna be okay. Everybody just look at your plate. Everyone stay out of what someone else has on their plate. It will, I think, benefit everyone. You can decide that on your own turf, with your own money, and other people don't give you that. It's my concern not to let my house fall apart. Your antifreedom fears and phobias are of no interest to me. I can't listen to those moaning about tearing down the architectural order. [[Hanna Gill-Friday: Don't listen.]] What kind of order? Where do you guys have this architectural order? This whole mess was built under the strict supervision of the officials. [[Voice from the room: Just...]] [[Hanna Gill-Friday: Don't listen.]] If the law in this country regulates even the height of the steps in a private house and you are still dissatisfied with the architectural order, then it simply does not work. If there has been a construction disaster recently, this building has been built in the system under the supervision of civil servants and it has not helped anything. Deal with it. Socialism does not work in construction either. Even if PiS understood it, you can understand it, too. That's Denver's plan. That's probably what you see. This is the plan of Katowice. Again: greater freedom - Denver, the first on the shore of the American city, a regular street network. From outer space, you can see there's a civilization here. Here - Katowice built under the strict supervision of officials, confusion, it looks like termites have bitten something in wood, not like some intelligent project. So what's worse than this power of bureaucracy? I don't think so. Do you know where the architectural order is in Poland? Nikishowiec in Katowice. The district was built by a private entrepreneur. Which of the historic districts, the old towns you like, was built under the supervision of the officials? After all, according to your view, these are almost all construction self-wills and stand for hundreds of years. What did the officials create? [[Member Hanna Gill-Friday:...in Wrocław.]] Calm down, ma'am. You'll be talking in a minute. Boring Soviet barracks These are your ideals. This is what the city built by civil servants looks like. That's what housing estates built by civil servants look like. This is your ideal. You're complaining the cities are gonna spill. What are cities supposed to do? Cities are spilling through their history. They're supposed to dig into the ground? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You expect everyone to live in such Soviet ants? Is that what you want? So far, we're financing government free eaters who are just bothering us to build houses, and at the end of the day, we're in complete chaos. It's not gonna get any worse, or at least we're gonna save money and time when it comes to this illusory control. We're making two amendments. Thank you. We want to presume the rulers, and we're asking not for 70, but for 100 m2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u585	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. [[Voice from the hall: I'm gonna be the one who's gonna bother you, huh?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u586	You're interrupting. It was a humorous accent. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Our own cottage outside the city is a romantic vision that stimulates our imagination. Worse, if such a cottage - and then other cottages, more and more cottages - arise on the proverbial field of beet. [[What's it to you? I can buy myself a...]] The current law, unfortunately, does not prevent housing investments in a genuine field, investments cut off from communication, schools and kindergartens, or even basic technical infrastructure. Such apartments quickly become a nightmare instead of dream apartments. [[But I don't want to live there...]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] We deserve that our cities and towns are a coherent whole, that everyone's home is reached by efficient public communication, and that schools and kindergartens appear where new settlements are created. [[That's my business.]] My words are only the first sentence in the above paragraph. The rest came from the exposé of Prime Minister Morawiecki four years ago. The Prime Minister promised us cheap apartments for rent. The Prime Minister announced reforms of planning, the elimination of the notorious, corrupt wuzette, which will destroy the landscape of Polish cities, placing monstrous investments on quiet settlements until now. The Prime Minister criticized the previous team for paying the profits of developers instead of apartments for young people. Then it turned out to be the usual. Today, after six years of your government, the Sejm receives a printing that turns those promises 180 degrees away, strengthens the wouette and intimidates the local authorities. What's more, he's putting a rock around their necks. [[Excuse me, miss, who makes the decisions about the construction conditions?]] It opens the way to the formation of wild and chaotic buildings... [[Bureaucracy.]] ...whose real costs we all will bear, because we as a local government community will have to build roads and get plumbing, set up schools and take buses. We're the ones who'll pay the ransom to make our... [[Bullshit, I can't listen to this.]] ...cities and cities have not become hostages standing in traffic jammed in smog, spilled over the horizon of settlements, which this law has just sanctioned as a new model of housing paradise for Poles. I do not use more difficult words here, I miss them now - anthropopression, suburbanization, extensive buildings, urban balance. [[Your knowledge is lacking, my fellow Member.]] I try to speak in simple words because we discovered in the committee meeting that the new Minister does not distinguish the concept of spatial governance from a nice spatial one. For this he presented himself as a freeman, even a spatial Darwinist, who [[Applause]] does not understand the basic terms in the area it directs. What's going on here, Prime Minister, is that you started out with some really good specialists, and today you're taking staff not even from the backup bench, but from the bleachers. [[Socialism doesn't work.]] The submitted print should be thrown through the balcony, but it could hurt someone whose developer pushed the patoapartment down the window into a dense neighborhood. That's what your powerlessness allows. We make amendments (the bell) at second reading, though, in truth, there is nothing to correct. This law is not only a disgrace, but also a panicful government re-enterade with any role in housing policy. Thank you very much, Member. In history, you'll be maximized: they're short of apartments, let them build cottages. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u587	Time's up. Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u588	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Act assumes that houses up to 70 m At least 1 million apartments are missing in Poland. Is this bill supposed to help solve this problem after the failure of the program? At the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Minister Piotr Uściński could not answer that question. Maybe there's someone in the O.R. today who knows the answer. Although you call it the Polish Ład, this law is a recipe for urban pathology (the bell) and is only suitable for basketball. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u589	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u590	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Building of a house with an area of up to 70 m [[I mean, he was there...]] ...in February 2020, where three people died tragically because of their self-confidence. [[It wasn't self-will.]] The government's proposal leads to a reduction in the quality of construction, building houses with virtually no control and a deepening of spatial chaos throughout Poland. So please answer the following questions: How do the planned statutory changes relate to local land use plans? Will these constructions be excluded from the local zoning plans based on the application? What will spatial order look like in a few years? In addition, if today you want to build a house on credit (the bell), the bank requires a building permit and a construction log approved by the construction manager. Thank you very much. So tell me how much real... Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Last sentence, Marshal. How many real builders will be able to benefit from this simplified procedure? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u591	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń does not ask a question, right? [[Mirek!]] [[But it is.]] Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. Mr Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. There isn't? [[Wait a minute. It's late.]] But I'm sorry, how long can you wait? Because the Member needs to talk? Let's respect each other. [[Somehow that time the state wasn't watching, as Minister Puda said.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u592	Yeah, that's right. The Minister said so much that... But it's okay. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have an important question. The chaos in spatial planning is an eternal problem of Poland. I think a lot of us are hitting the view of spatial governance when we travel to other countries. This is due to the simple principle that spatial governance ensures optimal construction, while the space surrounding us is our common good and value that cannot be recreated if it is destroyed. And that's how it works all over the world, that's how they understand it all over the world, only in Poland ignorance wins with common sense. I have the impression that the worse and more destructive the idea, the faster it goes through the Sejm. [[Applause]] That's what it's like in this case. However, that is not all, because this disorderly building that is pouring out of the area of development generates enormous costs. And I have a question: Has anyone ever thought about it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. Was this analyzed in the ministry? Good. Thank you very much. And were the costs estimated, how much will it cost? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u593	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u594	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The rule of law and justice cannot solve the housing crisis. It's a fact. But instead of looking for real solutions, you prefer either to give money to developers, like the Platform did, or to give responsibility to ordinary people. This bill is a recipe for disaster and a really romantic vision of a young couple who sits in their cabin shouldn't fool us here. Because let's ask, how are these people gonna get to this house? Who's gonna build them a road? And how long will they be commuting to the nearest school, kindergarten, their job, their health center, their park? What will be the cost of all this infrastructure? You know exactly what these costs may be, because in 2013. The Ministry of Infrastructure organized a conference at which your experts, invited by you, gave specific figures. The cost of building complete technical infrastructure for chaotic buildings is 120 thousand. PLN per house (Bingle) and for a complex housing estate - 61 thousand. Evil on the house. And these are the costs that local governments will bear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u595	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u596	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Construction law already allows the construction of single-family buildings on the basis of a notification without any restrictions on the construction or use area, provided that the investment's impact area is located on the plots on which it was designed. The design change is therefore not revolutionary in itself. On the other hand, a number of other amendments proposed in this regulation raise huge doubts, especially as the proposed changes may increase the risk of irregularities in the construction works resulting from the lack of professional supervision of their course. I do not mention the doubts that were also presented in this discussion in relation to spatial development solutions. The conclusions of the people I consulted on this project are clear: this project is suitable for throwing into the basket and for nothing else. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u597	Thank you. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u598	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill flatters the worst tastes of Poles, sanctiones selfishness, aversion to order, lack of respect for common space and disregard for social ties which good architecture should create. Slow down, Tom, in his cottage - 70 meters. Self-volts without a construction and surveillance manager are also a risk of construction disasters. The result of this bill will be spilled suburbs, degradation of nature, lack of services, sewage, and the further the city spills, the maintenance of infrastructure, transport is more expensive. This law prevents the architectural and construction administration from objecting even if it is recognised that the project is grossly incompatible with the local spatial planning plan or endangers the environment. It's a recipe not for order, but for urban anarchy. Even a patodeveloper seems okay with her. But who am I explaining this to? The organized group who wanted to build two towers for the rhyme? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u599	Mr Maciej Kopiec, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u600	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is written by people who have never been to construction. You are right to be ashamed of him, which is what it means to procedate him under the cover of the night. Yesterday, at a committee meeting, the Minister stated that the construction manager's institution is fictional in Poland and that is why it is unnecessary to keep construction logs. Thus, due to the state's inability to enforce proper security control of the construction sites, responsibility is shifted to investors who have no idea of construction technology, for this reason they may lose life or health with their families as a result of the construction disaster. That is the responsibility you place on your citizens. Do you realize how this bill will affect the construction services sectors? It will increase the gray area, making hiring decent, safe companies unattractive compared to hiring companies working in black, under the banner: cock - deleted and escaped. No longer an engineer and constructor, and an investor as a layman will control whether a given service has been performed according to the art of construction, so safe for health and life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u601	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u602	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Living+ program, the plan of 100,000 apartments didn't work out. So you had to plan something replacement: a house to report. But pathologically, you are allowed to build in cases of building reservoirs in my water program. You're letting us build a house for a notification, which is in the Natura 2000 area, because who's gonna be able to control it? You allow or conduct proceedings in the case of a castle in Stobnica in the Forest of Notecka in Wielkopolska, and yet a number of such houses can spill in the Natura 2000 area. And there's nothing you can do about it. My previous speakers at my club talked about all the problems involved in the lack of architectural order. Now, think about it, ladies and gentlemen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because you're trying to create nightmare programs here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u603	Thank you. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u604	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The current article. 15a The construction law provides sufficient clarity as to what speciality and scope of powers it allows both the design of the premises and the design of a project for the development of a plot or site in the field of this specialty. The state in the amendment 2 days ago, i.e. a throw on the tape, introduced that the designer can design a plot or land development project for these 70-metre buildings. I'm asking you why you brought it in. This is a very valuable remark from the Chamber of Architects that this should not be the case. All the more so - I wanted to draw attention to this - the investor will be confused from whom to enforce costs or compensation in the event of problems arising from the wrongly executed project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a very dangerous record. I would like to get a written answer to the question of what caused this record. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u605	Please, Mrs Filiks.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u606	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There have already been a lot of arguments about the fact that this is just a legal bullshit. I would like to draw attention to one very important legal matter. I am also directing it to Mr Sosnierz, because I do not think he has read this project, since he has so praised freedom here. Yes, it is true that you give people unlimited freedom by imposing responsibility on them, including the risk of a construction disaster, but - which is very characteristic for you - you will soon think of taking away that freedom from them. I'm really sending you back to the Constitution to read what property rights are and what is related to it. Because, therefore, Mr PiS has decided that he will introduce a record that this is a building for his own housing needs, and he has invented a punishment. Now I would like wise, thick heads to tell me how you want to verify the moment when an investor can prove that he was doing it for his own housing. How are you gonna block people from selling this property? How do you want to restrict and what right to property? What do you mean, you're gonna set a time for someone to live in? And if a man goes bankrupt, how will his life situation change (the bell) how do you want to punish people for getting rid of their property rights? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You don't understand...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u607	Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Club Left. [[You can read this bill first because you haven't even seen it.]] [[I'm glad you saw it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u608	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In January 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) The Ministry of Infrastructure has set up a team for: development of a building code. [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was.]] In mid-2016, Minister Żuchowski's lips announced that in January 2017 the project would go to the Sejm and in May 2018 the Ministry dissolved this team. I have a question, if the Minister does not know, I would ask for a written reply: How much did the Polish taxpayer cost 2.5 years of the team's work and what is the final result of its work? The government announced support for municipalities in the development of spatial planning plans. I wanted to ask how much money will be available in your department next year's budget to develop local spatial planning plans to simplify the procedure and speed up the issue of building permits. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u609	Thank you. Mr Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u610	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Listening to some of the opposition Members in the plenary room, but above all at the last meeting of the committee, I feel that there is no attempt by you to listen to the voices of those who live outside the big cities. You're attacking this bill for an alleged mess that will cause you in spatial order, but nothing changes here. It is still the task of the municipality, as has been the case so far for the last 30 years, to ensure this order by creating spatial planning plans. It is up to the owners of the municipalities whether or not there is a spatial planning plan. Hence my question to the Minister: Does the bill in any way restrict the municipalities from making these plans? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It was supposed to be about the houses.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u611	Thank you, sir. Mr Simon Weather, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u612	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The procedated bill introduces a number of solutions to facilitate the construction of single-family houses up to 70 m2 of building space in order to meet their own housing needs. The Act introduces the possibility of building single-family houses without obtaining permission to build, establish a construction manager or keep a construction log. In view of the fact that the project presented is positively assessed by Poles and already attracts great interest of potential investors, I would like to ask whether, as part of additional simplifications, a database of ready-made construction projects will be established, which could be used by future potential investors. If so, will their collection be free of charge or paid? How will they be able to obtain these projects, and how will the cost of setting up such a base be approximated? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I hope she's not here because this homicide is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u613	Thank you, sir. Mr Ireneusz Raś, Coalition Poland. And your fellow Members, please do not shout.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u614	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For more than 20 years the municipalities have been trying to organize their spatial governance by adopting local spatial planning plans. This is a very long-term process. It's almost finished. Some municipalities, not urban communities, decided that they could only be built on large plots so that it was a residential building. What you are proposing will be absolutely in conflict with what local governments are planning. This is a huge conflict. [[Yes, sir.]] I would like to say to the rapporteur that you do not know how many hybrids, how many interesting ideas regarding your bill will be created by Poles in their own way. We're gonna explain, unfortunately we're gonna build nightmares. [[Yes.]] And here I'm going to tell Mr. Sosnierz: you were actually showing the bad buildings that bureaucrats were inventing somewhere in the Polish People's Republic (the Bell) and around the Polish People's Republic. Then I'll tell you one more thing. Thank you, sir. What you're behind today... But that's not a question. ...this is the space to build even worse hybrids. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, bravo! You're right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u615	Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But, ladies and gentlemen, you want to talk, this is outside the pleural room, please. Please, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u616	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS writes a lot about urban standards, the reform of planning and spatial planning, and then presents a project that completely contradicts these ideas. What do you really want? Charging or spatial chaos? Building houses without permission, without construction manager, without construction log is a ready recipe for spatial chaos, for uncontrollably spilling cities, for destruction of landscape and nature. This bill is the end of the Polish village as we know it. It is the destruction of the environment, it is the destruction of places that should be subject to special protection and prohibition of buildings due to cultural, natural and conservation values. Do you even consider that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u617	Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u618	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, when you want to replace a window in your apartment or at home, you need a building application. When you want to put up a bigger swing for children in the garden, you need a construction application. When it comes to joining the media, it is about connecting sewers or water, and we need an environmental impact assessment at all. [[You don't know exactly what this is about.]] How is this new bill for all the rules that are in force today? I'm a Mazur resident. It is a beautiful region and the provisions proposed in this law are a huge threat to our region. Building without permission and supervision creates chaos and raises concerns that it will disrupt the spatial order that it is, Mr President. In our territory there are many private unbuilt plots, without spatial planning, and maybe that's the only thing that's keeping their chaotic buildings from being built. The lack of control will not only cause a mess, but will also be a threat to (the bell) the inhabitants themselves. Knowing man's creativity, you can assume that they will be houses with untested materials without certificates, harmful to health. Thank you. This decision could cost a person's life. [[Applause]] [[Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u619	Thank you, Member. Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u620	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act introduces the possibility of building single-family buildings without building permit, construction log, without the need to establish a construction manager and only in the notification procedure, which is a positive change in the existing building regulations. The changes concern the construction of freestanding houses, with a maximum of two floors, with a building area of up to 70 m
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u621	Thank you. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u622	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Law and Justice is one step away from compromise. In 2009, the Council The High House has adopted a bill that has abolished building permits. What happened then? At that time the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński challenged this law, addressed the application to the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal divided the President's reservations. [[He threw that legal piece of shit of yours in the trash.]] President Lech Kaczyński formulated these reservations. Respect the memory of President Lech Kaczyński. [[Applause]] [[Because it was legal, sir.]] Shame on you. Mr Pierce, please don't finger me. And today you bring to the Sejm a bill which, by the Constitutional Tribunal, will also be declared unconstitutional, because you do not respect the rights of third parties, do not respect the rights (the bell) of your neighbours, you also allow chaos... Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Coalition Poland. Your Marshal... But thank you very much. ...you weren't paying attention... But you argued with the Member, not me. So here you go, Mr Jacek Tomczak. Mrs. Marshal! I would like to draw the question: Will you warn the president of Jarosław Kaczyński... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...that you're trashing his brother's memory? [[Applause]] [[That you're trashing his brother's memory...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u623	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u624	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In general, as far as the broader context is concerned, the housing policy of PiS is one big failure. And unfortunately, this law will also be a failure, unless they participate in this procedure, in the verification of these documents by any municipal authorities or urban and architectural bodies. It will be possible to obtain and legalize a house in floodplain areas, in the forest, without construction conditions, not according to the local plan. No one will be able to verify it, verify it. Unfortunately, this will lead to many construction self-centereds. These powers, minimum and non-simplifying procedures, should be left to the municipalities. It is also important to know that these regulations will enable developers to carry out their investments on a massive basis. You are aware that 40 houses can be built on the basis of these regulations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Natural persons will buy a plot or shares in real estate, declare that it is for their own use, and the developer will carry out the project... Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. ...on the basis of a contract to build a single-family house. Yeah, well... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u625	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Grzyb. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u626	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question was why the municipalities did not implement spatial plans. Because there's excessive bureaucracy. There is an announcement of a revision of this law on spatial planning. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that one of the restrictions that causes certain areas to be blocked is the windmill law. I have an answer from the Ministry that this windmill bill and its consequences for the development of housing they are also to be included in this new spatial planning law. On the other hand, while continuing what Mr Tomczak was talking about, I will say that it is true that the developer can divide the land, sell to the owner these 500-metre plots, and then make a deal with him that he will build for the owner of this plot houses in accordance with this simplified procedure. There's a term right now that we have the so-called. Hanging: every lan, it's a new plan. [[Nothing.]] In my opinion, we should also protect space, also agricultural space, forest space, precisely these flood areas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Yeah, yeah.]] I think that there was a little bit of this reflection here, although I am in favour of simplifying procedures for people, because I think this is important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u627	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology, Minister Piotr Uściński, will answer the questions raised by the Members. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u628	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! To begin with, I would like to thank Mrs Annie Paluch very much for her comprehensive report and for presenting the draft law following the amendments of the committee. You did it so great, I don't have to do it right now. Yes, thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] I also thank the Prime Minister and the Government - there is no Prime Minister, because it is late - for preparing the Polish Order. It is part of this bill. This really is a very good project for Poles, which will make Poles actually have freedom of choice when it comes to their place of residence. The important thing is, we don't want to force people to live in houses or blocks. We want to give people freedom. If they want to buy an apartment in a block, let them buy it, but if they want to live in their own house, built individually, let them have it. Because now the big obstacle to building your own home is that there is a perspective of many months, or perhaps years, regarding the preparation of investments. What are we doing with this bill? As far as houses up to 70 m are concerned, from the moment we apply for construction conditions, when we get the construction conditions in 21 days, when we download the project for free from the website, when we order only the development of the plot development project and the adaptation of the project to our needs and submit the application, it will be only a few weeks and we will be able to start construction. And we can, it's here, but it's very good to make a dream of our own home. Let's give people a choice. I'm gonna put myself to the questions, to the various statements that were coming down. I've been taking note of your questions meticulously. I hope I don't miss any. If that were the case, I'm at your disposal. There's an additional question you can ask me at any time. First, the speeches on behalf of the clubs. Mrs. Margaret Chmiel accused us of doing this for the profit of the developers. That's what happened, among other things. charge. In no way for the profit of developers, because there is no possibility that developers will benefit from this law. Only an individual who makes a statement that he is building this house for his own needs can benefit from it. It's just a person. [[And then he'll sell.]] You're right. An individual who builds a house for his own use can then change his mind and sell it. And he has every right to do that. [[Voice from the room: The developer will sell the plot.]] But this bill will not be used by developers. No one can say otherwise because they sign a criminal statement that they are building for their own housing, not... [[Voice from the courtroom: On the day of the statement.]] Yeah, on the day of the statement, because we're not signing a commitment that we're gonna live in this house until we die or for five years. [[But life is richer than you think.]] Ma'am! The important thing is that an individual can build this house for himself. Dear citizens of the Civic Platform! I'm gonna use the data I had here somewhere. I wasn't gonna use them, but I'm gonna use these data, these numbers. I have a list of building decisions that have been issued over the years. I've got the data from the last 10 years. Building decisions for single-family cottages. In 2010, almost 98 thousand of them were issued. And then every year, until 2014, 2015, the number of building decisions issued for single-family houses fell. [[Voice from the hall: But the apartment was built.]] Your policy, when you were in power, has caused the number of building decisions issued every year to fall by 25% over the four or five years of your governments since 2010. [[Voice from the room: Calm down.]] [[Voice from the room: What are you saying?]] I've got hard data here. I got it from GUNB today. [[Voice from the hall: But the apartment was built.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, the number of decisions issued has increased from 75 000 in 2015 to 2020, i.e. in the last 5 years - in 2021 there is no data yet. in 2015 until... [[Oh, look at that. The Miracle of the Vistula.]] ...over 106,000. in 2020. This figure has increased by more than 40%. People want to build their own houses, and we want to make it easier for them. Your next questions. Many people have talked about this and I will try to bring it together - spatial governance. This law practically does not change anything in the field of substantive law on spatial governance. The local zoning plan is sacred when it comes to design. And when we design a 70-metre cottage, we also have the full law written down in the local plan. If there's no local plan, there's a PE. And please note that in the case of WZ we even slightly limit these WZs, because the municipality will analyze the distance of 200 m from the investment site. So far, whether this distance could have been much greater in the case of a normal procedure. We limit it to 200 m. If there is no construction in the space of 200 m from the planned investment, there is no chance of obtaining the conditions. So the spilling of the building you were talking about is limited in this bill, not the other way around. You can't build in an honest field according to this bill. There were allegations that in the woods, somewhere in some protected areas. If there is a Natura 2000 protected area - this question has also been asked - according to this law, the municipality, issuing WZ, will ask WDOŚ for the right opinion, as has been the case so far. And WDOŚ will give this opinion in accordance with the procedure. If it is now possible to build a house somewhere, it will be possible after implementation of this law. But if not, this law does not extend the possibility of building houses in different protected areas. That's a false charge. [[And 21...]] Ladies and gentlemen! There was also a question, and that's a cool question, about the completeness of the documentation. If someone lodges an incomplete application, the application will not contain at all e.g. a construction project, or a notification, contrary to what we have in the bill, will not affect a building that does not affect the neighborhood's plot, or will predict, I don't know, a building area greater than 70 m, what will happen then? Then the governor does not proceed with this request by procedure, which is intended only for single-family buildings freestanding... [[But he's not proceding anyway.]] ...not interacting with neighboring plots. If this notified building e.g. It's gonna affect the neighborhood's plots, and the old man's gonna be using a different procedure to date. Normally she'll object, no problem. [[Voice from the room: But on what basis does it proceed?]] [[Voice from the room: But in the bill it is written differently.]] [[Voice from the room:...read.]] Member of the Commission, but please do not just read this law, because this law does not replace the Construction Law. This law will become part of the entire Construction Law and land use law. [[Well, well.]] It will be the whole thing. The Starosta is to use this procedure when someone wants to build a cottage as planned under this procedure, not when he wants to build, for example. block and report that he wants 70 m of construction and will build a housing estate. You can't do it like that. Only single-family freestanding houses not operating on neighboring plots, including for own housing purposes. Only these projects will be covered by this procedure. Of course, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz would like us to take this more widely. His speech was very free. You weren't at the committee meeting yesterday when I answered your questions. So now I'm gonna do one thing... You asked questions at the committee meeting and then you were gone, so I'll tell you about the spatial governance. Spatial load is something that should not be subject to the rules of the free market. This was said by Milton Friedman himself, who should be for you, a freeman, an important man, a liberal theorist. He also believed that spatial governance was not subject to free market rules. And we in this bill introduce freedom in terms of procedures, but not in terms of spatial order. The spatial charge is to be preserved. There were also statements from which it can be concluded that people should only live in large cities, in blocks. Here I will quote, because it was very nice to say yesterday, Mrs Anna Paluch: Poland does not end in the corners of big cities. [[But no one's saying that.]] Poland does not end in the corners of big cities. Small towns have a chance to develop as well. People who live in small towns have a chance to live there and their children can, for example, live there. in a free space behind the parents' house to build their own house. [[The voice in the room:...is not blocking it.]] [[Voice from the room: But so do we.]] Then vote for this bill that helps people build these houses. If that's what you think, vote for this bill. [[But this bill is about something else.]] Madame, you had time to speak. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And you keep commenting, all the time. Minister, continue. You've got four more minutes. [[But don't bother the Minister. He's just asking questions.]] He's referring to questions. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Okay, I'll be... You're bothering me, I'm sorry. I answer to you. I want to interact. Well, since you're asking questions, I'm the one who's keeping an eye on things. I'm not bothering you in any way. Minister, focus on the answers. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Good. There was a question about ready-made projects that will be available for download. In fact, we will spend money on these projects. It will cost about 8 million PLN, if I remember correctly. In detail, it could be a plus minus a couple hundred thousand. We want to choose several dozen, ultimately about 50 such projects, now in the competition we will choose 100 main ones, we want to choose 100 such good projects, but then we want to sign 80, sorry, 50 contracts to prepare complete documentation. And it's either for cash or maybe for free, but let's say that for the proverbial zloty you can download complete documentation and commission it to an architect or another person who is entitled to prepare projects for the development of the plot. It's just about the adaptation. [[Just an architect.]] Those who have the authority to create such an adaptation project will be entitled, we do not want to limit it, but we do not want everyone to draw it, let the qualified designer do so. [[Voice from the room: Who's gonna check?]] There was a question about the usable area. Useful area of the cottage, which has 70 m Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, we practically do not change material law. Spatial management, all spatial development regulations, all technical requirements for building construction - all of this will be preserved, just changing procedures, simplifying, reducing costs for investors. I think I answered all the questions. [[Permission, my water.]] But this is not part of this bill, ma'am. [[But you could answer the Minister's question.]] We are working on another improvement or more comprehensive revision of the rules, both in terms of spatial planning and construction law, there will probably be further changes, and then perhaps you will be satisfied, too. I encourage you to talk... [[Voice from the room: 4 years.]] I'm three weeks old, but, ma'am, you were eight years old and you didn't either. [[Oh, dear.]] Then calmly give us the opportunity to act. [[Hands fall off...]] And I would very much like to ask all of you to support this bill and thank you very much. [[I asked you a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u629	Thank you very much, Minister. [[About the formal issue.]] I assume that Mrs Anna Paluch, as rapporteur of the committee, will also want to take the floor. [[But I'd still like to...]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u630	Thank you very much. [[But the Minister...]] Excuse me. Mrs Anna Paluch. The Minister replied as he saw fit. Madame, would you please calm down. Mrs Anna Paluch. Madam, would you like to calm down, sit down and put on a mask? Mrs Anna Paluch, please. And put on a mask. [[Voice from the hall: Are you a marshal?]] [[This is the granda in this Seym.]] Member, begin your speech. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Białano was here and the robes were torn apart over the fact that it was as if this project of ours incarcerated the communes. I remind you - of course I said this, but as usual you do not listen to the rapporteur - one issue: in Polish law the procedure for authorising investment is two steps, first there is a location, then there is the issue of a building permit. And, ladies and gentlemen, spatial policy has been running the municipality since the time of the deep commune, because local spatial planning since the 1960s, 70s, 80s, 90s, etc. runs the municipality. If there is no spatial planning plan, the building conditions shall be decided. And one, and the other, he's doing the commune, and no one in this town can replace it. And this is a matter of local government, how it conducts spatial policy, which it should correlate with infrastructure development policy. Simple? Simple. You're the only ones who don't want to admit it. [[Are you an architect?]] Second line. Members of the Platform were tearing their robes apart and crying to crocodiles that during the previous term we had not created the promised building code. I dare remind you that your minister Mr Dziekonski announced the execution of this work every quarter, i.e. the preparation of changes in the Construction Law, and after a few years he rushed to the office of the President and the discussion about the change of the Construction Law and the amendment of the Spatial Development Act ended. One manifestation of your legislative activity for 8 years of government was the legal bubble - yes, Mrs Chmiel, the legal bubble - of your former colleague Palikot, who contained laws against which I believe from 10 protested all chambers of construction engineers, architects, all possible engineering professions, which have anything to do with the construction process. And the amendments in the Senate were made by a horse riding specialist, your colleague Mr. Abgarowicz. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's not hard to be surprised that you're asleep. President Lech Kaczyński, since he knew that your project would support and reject his veto, decided to refer this legal bubble of your colleague Palikot to the Constitutional Tribunal. And the Constitutional Tribunal under your command is Prof. Rzepliński threw that legal crap in the trash. It's just to remind you what it was like, because I'm not gonna listen to your lies quietly. And, ladies and gentlemen, one more thing. If the Cracow Member of the Civic Platform, who has been co-chaired with President Majchrowski for years, criticises the solutions of our print no. 1534, this is, excuse me, a classic beam in the eye, ladies and gentlemen. Because what was the Krakow Civic Platform doing? The recently detained Vice President of Krakow gave permission to developers before adopting the plan. It was clear and open in Krakow that everything could be done with this lady. And every Krakowian in the shop, at the barber's, at the beauty shop, anywhere, just ripping his hair off, which is happening in the field of spatial policy in Krakow. Ladies and gentlemen, it is high time to put the issue of spatial planning from head to toe and allow normal Poles, ordinary, hard-working Poles, especially young people, before whom there is still life and who have the right to live in human conditions, to raise children, to work quietly so that without unnecessary complications they can build a house, as it is in their measure, as they can afford. I will once again say what I said in the committee: Poland does not end in the corners of big cities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u631	Thank you very much, Member. In what way, Member? [[In corrigendum mode.]] No, no, I'm sorry... [[My name...]] But I'm sorry. [[The voice in the room: No corrigendum... you act like...]] There was a request, Minister, to address some... May I, Member? Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Behave yourselves.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, but please follow the rules.]] ... questions in writing, okay? You're welcome. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u632	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project concerns the possibility of building single-family buildings with a building area of up to 70 m With regard to the above announcements, it is extremely worrying that the position of the National Council of the Chamber of Architects of the Republic of Poland, which maintains its negative attitude towards the distribution by the state of free construction projects of single-family houses with a building area of up to 70 m 1. What is the justification for excluding persons with appropriate powers from the construction process and transferring full responsibility for this process to investors? 2. Does the project run counter to the requirements of spatial governance? 3. Is the bill designed to implement rules that hinder the pursuit of the profession by architects as representatives of the profession of public trust? 4. Will the House of Architects of the Republic of Poland be included to any extent in further legislative work?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u633	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that in time... [[But my name came up, your marshal, my name.]] But not your speech, but not your speech, just your reference to the past. Madam, I ask you to be quiet, to behave. Since during the second time... [[Shall we interrogate him?]] But interrogate yourself, please. Since, at the time of the second reading, amendments were submitted to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct... [[My name came up.]] [[Get your shit together, ladies.]] ...this project to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy to present a report. [[Your Marshal, in corrigendum mode... but aren't you in accordance with the rules?]] If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Your marshal, you heard Mrs. Finger used my name, so...]] Madam President, I have heard the context, and I do not see the connection here. [[Any connection to my name?]] Member, please take your seat, okay? This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 16 September this year. I would like to inform you that the Members have made themselves known as the target... [[You guys are so stressed out, ladies. Have a cold drink...]] [[You can... politely, really.]] No, you're not, because you're always commenting and yelling in the courtroom. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. The first statement will be made by Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u634	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Piotrkowian in Copenhagen. I've already mentioned that there are a lot of heroes who don't appear on history books. It would be bad if the memory of them faded away, especially since it is a story that could be filmed, ends sadly, but it bears witness to the Polish contribution to the resistance movement in Denmark. Denmark is one of the few European countries that have no grave of an unknown soldier. Perhaps because its status during World War II was slightly different from that of the rest of the nations occupied by Germany. There is a cemetery in Copenhagen, where the heroes of the Danish resistance sleep forever. The only Pole lying there is Lucian Butterch's peter. After graduation in 1931. Young Lucjan started his studies at the Gdynia Maritime School. He became an officer of the merchant fleet, and according to a regional researcher, Jerzy Kisson-Jaszczyński, he was often in his hometown, bringing with him stories about distant countries. In the campaign for September. Butter has crossed the battle route of the Army, fighting in the throat of the Pomeranian corridor and later in the battle of Bzura. He was taken into captivity, from which he tried to flee three times. He broke through to Denmark, where he headed a diversionary and spy network called "Felicia" at the command of the Polish Armed Forces in London. Other sources put him at the head of a secret Polish organization. Historians disagree, the subject needs further research. It is certain, however, that Lucjan Buttercha was active in the underground, both by providing essential intelligence to London and by participating in sabotage operations in Denmark. On December 31, 1944, Piotrkowian married his friend Lone Louise Christine Mogensen, born in Poland, Dunka, who also worked in the resistance movement. Unfortunately, for reasons which until today are unknown, most likely as a result of treason, at night from 2 to 3 January their hideout was surrounded by the Gestapo. Lucjan Butterch was defending himself to the last bullet, and his young wife committed suicide by chewing on an amp of poison. In Copenhagen in Gaju Remembrance in Ryvangen there is only one foreigner - a Pole piotrkowian. It's a pore. Lucjan Butters. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u635	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u636	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The anniversary of the 50th anniversary of the Orchestra of the Wind Cemetery Chelm. Orchestra Data Cement Plant Chelm has been playing for half a century. The orchestra was founded in 1971. The beginnings of the orchestra were not easy. It was formed by a group of amateur musicians who gathered in their spare time for music together. The orchestra's members were mostly factory employees and school students. Leszek Wiata became the first band's bandmaster. The approval and interest of the Chełm cement combination and the good conditions created by the company's cultural house, as well as the solid work of the entire team, led the orchestra to begin rehearsals and performances. The first performance was the first march in 1971 - the orchestra participated in these celebrations for many years. You didn't have to wait long to succeed. The orchestra performed more and more not only in Chelm itself, but also in the country. It was present on many socialist constructions carried out by Polish specialists in Czechoslovakia, the GDR or the USSR, as well as, as few know, it welcomed the returners from the sea cruise of the ship in the Gdynia port. In 1979, the orchestra was entrusted to the conductor Tadeusz Świek. The change of the bandmaster contributed to an even greater level of musical orchestra. The orchestra took the leading places on the reviews and festivals. She was the organizer of a nationwide review of the Wind Orchestra of Building Materials Bonding Companies. In 2006, the 35th anniversary orchestra She made a record. Currently, the bandmaster is Marian Klysz, who has been running the orchestra since 2009. Without sparing his own strength, he tries to keep the team at the highest level, as evidenced by the achievements in the reviews of wind orchestras, among others. in Krasnobroda, Zamość, Biłgoraj and Polichnie. Today, it is difficult to imagine a city, factory, or religious celebration without this orchestra. On the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Orchestra of the Dęta Cementownia Chełm, I congratulate you on the beautiful anniversary of the anniversary, and I wish you further success and success in the implementation of the next goals. I cordially invite everyone to a solemn concert on this occasion to Chełm on 26 September 2021. Start of the concert at hours. 3:30. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u637	Thank you, Member. Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u638	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 27 September this year. The third edition of the historical competition Memory map. This portal aims to bring closer knowledge about the activities of members of the Polish Underground State and the Home Army in the Świętokrzyskie voivodship and neighbouring voivodships. Initiator of the approximation of historical events with the use of modern means of communication is the Association of Historical Reconstructions.Jodła and the President of Dionysia Krawczyński at the head. The site started operations at the end of 2018 and initially had a description of dozens of memorial sites in its knowledge resources. In time, when the association of the Jodła announced the competition, the number of stories told was several hundred. Everything documented with recordings, photos, tips on how to reach the memory sites, as well as links that moved interested parties to further sites such as www.akokręgkielce. en. The objectives of the competition include shaping patriotic attitudes of young people by promoting and deepening knowledge about the organization and activities of the Polish Victory Service, the Union of Armed Fighting, the Home Army, cultivating values, ideals and attitudes of soldiers of the Polish Underground State, inspiring and encouraging young people to undertake independent research on the history of their family, the environment associated with the place of residence, improving their ability to use various forms of expression, relationships, interviews, stories, reports, and finally visiting memorial sites. Last year the winner of the competition was Krzysztof Brymerski from Krasocin, who was the only one of 800 participants in the historical journey reached all points on the map. I believe that this year the final of the competition will be surprising, and thanks to this undertaking many participants will discover often forgotten places of memory. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u639	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u640	Dear Marshal! I regret that we are not fully satisfied with your deliberations today, because it was not possible to make adjustments, as my fellow Members have asked, nor have we received answers to some of the questions in the last points, and Minister Puda's statement on agriculture is not at all... not as rosy as the Minister said. Today I am signaling that I will be submitting applications which were prepared by the County Council of the Agricultural Chamber in Mielec on 6 September, concerning ASF disease, where there are more than 30 outbreaks, as I indicated yesterday. Aid to farmers is insufficient. But I'm gonna move on to the statement scheduled for today. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to make a special commemorative statement today about the celebration of the 75th anniversary of the Mielecki Aero Club. The Działowski brothers. Let me first remind you of the figures of patrons: Stanisław and Mieczysław Działowskich, outstanding Mielec Nestors of Polish aviation. The Działowski brothers built, constructed about 10 DKD sports aircraft, from DKD-1 built, built in 1926 to DKD-8, and a taxi plane Aeromobil. E.g. This Mielec owes to the fact that from the 4,000th town he became an air force. The 75th anniversary of the Aeroclub Mielecki will celebrate the next Saturday, September 18th. At the hands of the honourable Mr Paweł Świerczyński, President of the Mielecki Aero Club. The Działowski brothers, I want to congratulate you on your warmest wishes. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Mielecki Aero Club, on the occasion of the 74th anniversary, I would like to express my sincere congratulations to the President and my warmest wishes for a further, equally fruitful and full commitment to the promotion of aviation not only on the land of Mielec, but also across the country. The Mielecki Aero Club is inextricably connected with Mielce, grew into his history, found a lasting place in the hearts of the inhabitants. With pride and joy we can observe the next generations of young aviation enthusiasts and their achievements. I appreciate the efforts of the aero Club authorities to ensure that your pupils have good working and training conditions, and the surrounding residents could admire their achievements, because the namesakes commit. Stanisław and Mieczysław Działowski, brothers, great aviation enthusiasts, pilots, designers. Thanks to them, the city of Mielec was infected with aviation passion. This passion was given to the entire Mielec society, which contributed significantly to the choice of location for the future aviation factory. It is the Działowski brothers that Mielec has become to a large extent what it is today. It was the departmental brothers from a small provincial town that made Mielec an aerospace power. I would like to thank the authorities and aero Club instructors for the great educational effort, commitment and great heart placed in working with young people. In a special way, I would like to thank all the presidents, among others, at the hands of Paweł Świerczyński. Mark Woszczynski, Zdzisław Rączka, Kazimierz Dziet and Wiesław Cenie. I am convinced that the Mielec Aero Club has brought in invaluable value to the development of the city of Mielec and the entire region and will be the forge of outstanding personalities such as its patrons. For further years I wish the members of the Mielecki Aero Club all the best and many successes in aviation sports. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u641	Thank you very much, Member. I'm sorry you're unhappy with my guidance, but it's just like I was unhappy with the screams that were in the courtroom today. I don't know what just happened today, whether it's weather or not, I don't know. But the statement was calm, very nice. Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u642	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In May this year. I sent Minister Mariusz Błaszczak an interpellation to determine whether military drones are manufactured in Bydgoszcz Military Aviation Plant according to public information from the Ministry of National Defence, or whether information from this Ministry is another propaganda lip. As you may remember, in 2017 Minister Antoni Macierewicz and Deputy Minister Bartosz Kownacki informed that in Aviation Works No. 2 in Bydgoszcz, sensational military drones will be produced and Belma's electromechanical plants already produce warheads. These drones were supposed to be thousands, and their warheads were supposed to destroy all of the enemy's groups. Now my constituents are asking whether the Ministry of National Defence actually ordered these thousands of drones, or whether the Minister and Deputy Minister of National Defence have introduced soldiers and workers of Bydgoszcz arms plants into raspberry. Since the truth cannot be hidden, it turns out that the Ministry of National Defence has ordered only eight sets of unmanned aircraft for today, and it is from a completely different program, because of the program of Orlik, but to this day no one has seen these drones unless you have a different opinion. If the Minister of National Defence orders only eight sets of drones for the entire Polish army, either the Polish army does not need drones, which would undoubtedly be stupid on a global scale, or in the Ministry again someone is plotting like a horse uphill to justify the lack of Polish drones buying weapons abroad. Again expensive, again far away and again without offset. Specialists claim that if the Ministry of National Defence had worked diligently for the past five years and not focused intensively on explaining the Smolensk disaster again, today reconnaissance and combat drones would have been produced in Polish production plants and they would not have to be bought abroad. And I guarantee you, Minister Błaszczak, that if the Polish Army had these thousands of drones, no green man would get caught in Poland, and that the Minister and Prime Minister would not have to be terribly afraid that every 4 years Russian troops drive tanks under the Polish border. Notabene drives because they do, but Minister Błaszczak and Prime Minister Kaczyński, responsible for the forces departments, have not modernised the leopards until today. I'm afraid the answer won't scare President Putin or Lukashenka. Therefore, the questions to the Minister for National Defence, which I allow to present, are still valid. What is the advanced production of observation and observational and combat drones in Poland? How many drones have been produced over the last 5 years, how many have entered the Polish army, how many have been exported and what are the production plans for these drones for the coming years? What tasks will the Military Aviation Works No. 2 in Bydgoszcz and Belma electromechanical plants in Bydgoszcz carry out after the completion of the program for the production of drones? For what years are investments and production expected and of what value? In this case, I'm making a statement to the Minister of National Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u643	Thank you, sir. Mr Maciej Górski, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u644	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The past is today, just anything else. - Cyprian Kamil Norwid. On 25 August 2021, in the historic palace in Dębinki, the District Council in Wyszkowie and the Council of the Municipality of Zabrod adopted resolutions on the creation and running of the first Cyprian Kamil Norwid Museum in Poland together with the Museion Norwid Foundation. The creation of the museum is a historic moment, because Poland has waited many years for this event. The palace in Dębinki is a special place not only for Wyszkowska land and the municipality of Zabrod, but also for norvidologists, because in this place, young Cyprian Norwid was raised in this palace after the death of his parents. Ksawery Dybowski, the owner of the estate, took care of him. A month before the round 200th anniversary of the artist's birth, this beautiful palace became the seat of the first museum in Poland. Before this institution a great work, because the building requires revitalization, while the courage and enthusiasm and unanimity of both the county council and the commune council are encouraging. From this point I would like to thank the councillor, the district board, the governor of the municipality of Zabrod for making this courageous decision, which will make this place famous, and will also give Poland the first museum of our fourth settlement. The Museion Norwid Foundation owes separate and special thanks because it has been seeking to establish this institution since 2014, taking care of this place, animating various events, promoting this idea since 2014 pro publico bono. Especially here, President Jacenta Matysiak deserved his initiative. Thank you very much. The participation of the Ministry of Culture cannot be overlooked, and here special thanks to the Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński for giving high priority to this task. The great dynamics and understanding and involvement of the Minister, the Prime Minister, resulted in the fact that this museum could have been set up so quickly. It is also a good forecast for the future. I would like to inform the Sejm and everyone who is watching us, that the first Cyprian Kamila Museum in Poland Norwida exists in the municipality of Zabrod in Wyszkowski County, 40 km from Warsaw. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u645	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u646	Thank you, Marshal. Perhaps this statement is not part of the convention of those statements which were made earlier, because they concerned various elements related to history, and in particular related to our achievements in culture, but this is due to the fact that I want to bring up a matter that is vital for many Polish and, more broadly, Polish families. This concerns, in particular, the very difficult situation at present on those holdings which produce pigs. This is related on the one hand to the ASF and on the other to the fall in prices and the decrease in profitability. This is also the result of heavy pressure from those who are producers in neighbouring countries, because this flock lands on the Polish market, but also due to the fact that the world market has changed, the stocks have been rebuilt in China and Vietnam. All of this has made this situation extremely difficult. From 1 January to 30 April this year. It's been wiped out, like 130 grand. existing, more than 20,000. swine flocks. Production has been extinguished in so many farms. This process continues to deepen. Of course, this is mainly due to the fact that some farmers who produce in the cycle so-called. open, halting the cast and production process, fearing that they will suffer losses due to the fact that there is an ASF disease and that later it will be necessary to carry out the process of putting this production out for a number of years, while others who produce in a closed cycle simply eliminate the mother flock. The destroyed flocks will be very difficult to rebuild. In particular, this can be seen in many parts of Wielkopolska, in many counties such as Leszyński, Gostyński, but also Krotoszyński. Wherever I met with farmers' representatives, they said that they did not see at the moment a perspective that would, on the one hand, maintain profitability and, on the other hand, also develop this production department. This is also influenced by the costs involved, among others. with bioinsurance and little support for these holdings. The increasing low cost-effectiveness of production due to the increase in production costs. These proportions between e.g. Fertilizer or feed prices are very high. The increase in soy and rape protein prices, which reached record prices at the turn of the year, and this was also the case. related to the late reaction on our part, also as a legislator, regarding the extension of the period of authorisation for soy protein in animal production. This led to an increase in prices on the markets when this situation was unblocked. Dramatic price decreases related to the existence of ASF in the so-called. The blue zone. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the use of the monopoly position of purchasers who offer prices within the limits of PLN 3 and 3.5 in this area, for example. for the removal of the plays from the mother's flocks up to PLN 1.5. This makes the economic imbalance in these farms actually increase, the income declines, and frustration also deepens. We are under strong pressure from these people, as well as their representatives in the form of trade unions, to urgently make this intervention, and in particular to intervene where there is an ASF phenomenon, and where these prices fall very drastically. State intervention should be carried out there, for example through a buy-out of state resources. This would save, at least in the case of some of these holdings, the income that is so important from the point of view of the existence of those families. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u647	Thank you, sir. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u648	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On Sunday, as a community of the nation, especially of the faithful Catholic Church, we had the happiness to attend the celebrations of the exaltation of the two new blessed, or Fr. The Primate of the Millennium Cardinals. Stefan Wyszynski and the mother of the darkened Elizabeth Rosa Chacka. I return to this event because it is not enough to resemble these characters, their achievements and charisma. I will focus on two themes related to the blessed Primate priest who, in his reflections on upbringing, emphasized that - quote - Victory is the hardest, but also the most valuable: he gives us the most personally and raises us to life, which is spread before man. It's not art to conquer others, it's art to conquer yourself. End of quote. If we listen to this quote, it certainly leads us to two necessitys. First of all, self-reflexion, desire to reflect on myself, and every once in a while to ask myself what I am, how faithful I am to my youthful ideals, and how far away I am from them. This in turn triggers, secondly, self-defense: What about what I think about myself, what I know about myself, can I do? Whatever your biography, your age, whatever your circumstances. How can we continue to build ourselves, even under unfavorable circumstances? I know that such diwagations from the Seym Hall may surprise you, but it is here, in these buildings of the Polish Parliament that many of us stand up in the face of the necessity to settle ourselves out of their nobility or wickedness. The question of continuing to become a biography of each one of us and maintaining all the proportions of the scale of the challenges and responsibility that we bear, certainly the fundamental responsibility we have, is our responsibility for ourselves, for the quality of our humanity in full condition. Therefore, Priest Primate, our blessed, staring at the icon of your life, you can still see the nobility of the deeds that emanate from the nobleness of your face as a fruit of continuous work on themselves. And the second thread, linking both the Primate priest and the mother of the darkened Elizabeth Rosa Chacka. Quote: With your faith and hope you can help others around you: next to you - on the bed, in another room or in another hospital. Many people expect your comfort and help, even though you suffer yourself. End of quote. The life story of the two blessed is an outstanding testimony of such an attitude, such attitude also toward their own powers. It can be that we appear to ourselves too small, too insignificant, ba, touched by some affliction, and yet it seems that it is possible to reverse this vector. Worrying and isolation, because with my weakness I will be of no use to you, can be converted into action despite weakness. Despite your conviction of isolation, enter into the light, show your strength to the world and change it for the better. Primate Wyszyński kept saying: You have to demand the most from yourself and do not lower your hands. With her life and her service to the darkened, the blessed mother Rose Chack proved it miraculously. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What am I saying this for? Because it is worth recalling, because it is worth encouraging one another to stand before the image of the blessed and the holy, not only by mechanically praying to them, but also by trying to read their testimony so that it does not become analyzing, fructifying, and the prayer itself has not finally become a meaningless ritual. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u649	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u650	Kiczora is a town located in Beskid Żywiecki. It's in a beautiful area. It extends from the massif of Rachowiec to Kichora and the massif of Little Fun on the river Czerna. It's a place where we can find peace and quiet. The surroundings are surrounded by magnificent forests. These areas are ideal for hiking or resting in agrotourism farms. Here you can discover 100 new paths and take 100 new great walks. The advantage of Kichory is its location in the immediate vicinity of the regions where winter sports centres are located. Why am I talking in Parliament today about a small village in beautiful Żywiec region? Well, a few weeks ago, I took part in a family festival that the inhabitants of Kichory have been organizing for several years. It was an extremely pleasant meeting. Tonight in Parliament, I want to thank the hosts for a nice party and congratulate the party that brings together all the residents. I cordially greet all the inhabitants of Kichora, and I encourage all of you to visit this beautiful region and take advantage of the tourist offer. Kissora, warm greetings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u651	Quixote, you say, sir. In the Żywiec region. Great. [[Quixote, I'd like you to meet the marshal.]] Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice. Please make a statement. There isn't. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice. There isn't. Why sign up? Mrs Anna Maria Siarkowska, Law and Justice. I just saw her. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u652	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Sejm resented the words from this speaker to Minister Niedzielski. Meanwhile, when Professor Andrzej Horban, head of the medical board at the premiere, said that if he could use a knife that seemed to open up to him in his pocket, he would use it against me and Janusz Kowalski. At that time, Minister Niedzielski did not see the problem, as did most of the political class. In public life, especially in politics, the language of violence should not be used, but the consent to hypocrisy should also not be allowed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u653	Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u654	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are places, events and heroes who have remained only in the memory of their loved ones for years. September 5th this year in Czerniaczenie Poduchowny, the inhabitants commemorated the victims of the crime committed 76 years ago by the Communist regime officers. On 19 April 1945, the Soviet border platoon, together with the operational platoon of the command of the District Militia in Krasnystaw, committed crimes on the inhabitants of the municipality of Turobin. Among the murdered were the inhabitants of Czerniacin, Czurawie, Gaj Czerniaciński, Wólka Czerniacińska and Turobin. Twelve people were murdered. The youngest victim was 17 years old, the oldest was 58 years old. The actions of the Soviet regime were caused by the cooperation of local residents with the underground structures of independence that operated in these areas. The memory of them survived not only in the hearts of the loved ones who witnessed these events, but also among the local community. Thanks to the initiative taken by the principal of the elementary school, Ms Margaret Sikora, Fr. Bolesława Stepnik, parish priest of St. Katarzyna in Czerniacin Poduchowy, President of the District Court in Biłgoraj Mr Zbigniew Łupina and the families of the victims and residents of these towns were founded a monument commemorating the murdered. The solemn unveiling and consecration of the monument took place on 5 September this year. in the presence of families of victims, state and local authorities, representatives of the Lublin branch of the Institute of National Remembrance, uniformed services, clergy, associations and organizations and residents of the municipality of Turobin. Hello to their memory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u655	Thank you, Member. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u656	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It was just past a special anniversary, a joyful anniversary, the 28th anniversary of the exit of Soviet troops from Poland. It was on 16 September 1993 that the last soldiers and their families left Legnica, the headquarters of the North Army Group of the Soviet Army, as the official name was. From the fourth platform of the Legnica railway station, the last train to Brest took off and the grim era - the Soviet occupation ended. For most Poles it was a joyful, incredible day. Previously unimaginable and only by a few dreamed up, because at that time it was difficult to imagine that there would be no Soviets in Legnica. For as long as I can remember, they've always been. 1/3 of the city, the best villa district separated by a wall, so-called. The square, was inhabited by the command and his family. The Poles were banned from this area. This has been the case since the end of World War II - the continuation of what happened before its outbreak, the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact and on 17 September 1939, when the Soviets attacked Poland with arms. And this anniversary must be remembered in particular. In a minute, at an hour. Four in the morning, 82 years since the Soviet occupation began. Then there was Katyn and mass deportations to the East. It was a symbolic beginning of the permanent loss of the Eastern Ends and the loss of independence for the next 54 years. And today both the Lukashenka regime and Moscow glorify this day and use it for current politics, creating further historical lies. For some it is a day of national unity, for others an act of liberation. And the truth is that on 17 September 1939 it was and will remain a symbol of the criminal cooperation of Hitler and Stalin against the free nations of Europe - it is a quote from the IPN - and as a day of unity of two totalitarians. We must not forget that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u657	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u658	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's been a year and a half since the start of the pandemic. We're in the middle of a fourth wave. Today, the Ministry reported 722 new cases of coronavirus infection. You couldn't convince Poles and Poles to immunize, and at such an important moment you led to the protest of doctors and doctors. It simply lacks hands to work, hence the demands for increased benefits. In addition, many hospitals indicate that COVID supplements are not paid. Why? 80% Doctors spend time on bureaucracy and 20% on contact with the patient. There is a need to increase the number of people working in administrative services and auxiliary staff, or to make the number of workers and workers dependent on the number of patients. The General Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics warns that through inhuman working conditions the average age of the nurse at the time of her death is 62 years, 20 years less than the average life expectancy of women in Poland. When's that gonna change? The health system is critical, while you have money for the Saski Palace, for TVP propaganda, and health protection you simply ignore. The price of your inability, of course, is paid by patients. Protestants cannot ask to speak to Prime Minister Morawiecki. Instead of him, doctors and doctors meet recruiters who encourage them to work in hospitals abroad. Why doesn't the Prime Minister have a better offer for them? What is more important than meeting people who protect our lives and health? Prime Minister Morawiecki, I have a proposition for you. Let's go to the tent town together and hear what the medics have to say to you. It doesn't have to be a run, just tonight or tomorrow, because next week it might be too late. Do you have the courage to face the truth? Come on in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u659	Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice. I'm asking you kindly to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u660	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a result of the actions of the Warsaw Town Hall in connection with reprivatization, many injuries were caused. It was done both to those who lived in returned buildings and to those who were robbed of their property or property of their ancestors. Most refunds were made on the basis of administrative decisions. About 20% of these decisions were issued with a gross violation of the law. But it turned out that there were also buildings with residents without these administrative decisions. In 2008, the then President Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz issued order No 1777/2008. Under this arrangement, the buildings were returned together with the tenants. However, it turned out that these refunds were made without administrative decisions which would establish perpetual use for legal successors of former owners. The order of the President of Warsaw was actually issued without a legal basis, because no legal act allowed the issue of buildings without a legal basis. This means that buildings have been issued to people who have not proven their rights to these properties. They were also issued with personal data of the tenants. Interestingly, after a few years, the order of the President of Warsaw was withdrawn because it was considered to be a mistake. However, it has not been withdrawn that the buildings have been transferred to private individuals and remain in their hands. To this day, Warsaw City Hall has not recovered even 1/4 of the buildings dedicated to unauthorized persons. Only the resistance of the inhabitants of these buildings gives hope that these buildings will return to the municipal stock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u661	Thank you very much, sir. And that's how we managed to make it to the end of today. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u662	Declaration on Marymonk Immortal and commemoration of the fallen Warsaw insurgents. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very happy to unveil the new Warsaw monument commemorating Poles fighting for independent Poland. Two days ago, a monument called Marymont Immortal was unveiled on Marymont in Warsaw. He commemorates the soldiers of the AK group. The monument was created on the initiative of Kpr. A flea. Wenceslas Gluth-Nowowiejski ps. Wiwer, one of the last living Warsaw Robinson. Mr. Wacław was wounded in battles on Marymont, and is also one of the two survivors from the German massacre at the insurgent sanitary point. Wishing Mr. Wacław much health, I thank you for the great act of courage and patriotism. Hello and praise the heroes!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u663	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Next Friday, September 17th, we celebrate the World Sybirak Day. This important celebration was established on the anniversary of the Russian attack on Poland and although the celebrations organized by the Sibirak Union have been held annually since 1991, it was only in 2013 that the Polish Sejm formally established the day of 17 September Sibirak. History has many ways of persecuting the population because of nationality, social status, or religion. Concentration camps, mass executions, or eventually alienated fundamental human rights, stripped humanity of humanity. These actions are an expression of the darkest pages of history, the result of which was not only to humiliate the victims, but also to glorify the power of the oppressors. This was the fate of the Sibirians, who were massively exported into the cold guts of the USSR and on the endless steppes of Kazakhstan - crowded in cattle cars, decimated by diseases and frost. Their bones still lie in unknown graves by roads and tracks, in forests and on broken steppe land. At this point it should be emphasized that our fellow countrymen in Siberia began in the 17th century. The first group of exiles was about 10,000. participants of the bar confederation, in the following centuries in Russia insurgents who participated in all independence breaks were sent: Kościuszko, November and January. The turn of the 19th and 20th centuries is the time of the troops of independence conspiracy activists, including General Józef Piłsudski. The blackest part of the story concerning the exiles of Poles to the Far East began with the Soviet aggression in September 1939. After September 17, over 1.5 million Poles were deported to Siberia and Kazakhstan. Sibir consumed many lives, hundreds of thousands of victims were not allowed to return to their homeland. Those who have succeeded in this are still remembering the humiliating conditions in which they live. The exile left a deep scar in the consciousness of all who came to experience it. Although many years have passed since those tragic events, the memory of the harm that has been done is still intact. Today, the last sibiracs are slowly leaving, along with them memories and stories of inhuman events that occurred to them on distant eastern earth. September 17 is a special date in the history of Poland, which is marked by the great pain and suffering of millions of Poles. Remember, this day has a unique dimension especially for sibiraks and kresas, it is a symbol of their life, and at the same time an eloquent way to preserve in the memory of their tragedies and wandering fate. Let us make every effort to ensure that the dramatic events of this period survive in the memory and consciousness of subsequent generations. Therefore, let us devote this day to meetings with former sibiracs to listen to their difficult stories and then be able to pass them on to the next generation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u664	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with the draft amendments to the Foreigners Act and the Act on granting protection to foreigners in the Republic of Poland, print No.1507, various non-governmental organizations who present their views on this matter are reporting to my parliamentary office. One of them is the Open House Initiative, which believes that the proposed law is harmful in itself because it drastically and arbitraryly prevents access to the refugee procedure. But it is also another stage of the disassembling of the Polish asylum system that has been going on for some time. The Polish government has been running an undocumented policy of zero refugees for several years. Its manifestation is not only the chronic underfinancing of the Office for Foreigners, the institution responsible for refugee proceedings. For years, Pushbacks have been on the Polish border crossings, and the government ignores the stigmatizing judgments of national courts and the European Court of Human Rights, paying silently enormous compensation to those who have managed to get through the entire judicial path. Now we have better and worse refugees, which is one that the government likes or dislikes. The manual asylum system is to give priority to Belarusians or evacuated Afghans, but not those of Usnar. And now the Border Guards are ordered to farm catchers and exports at the border with Belarus. No wonder the eastern facilities of this formation began to record a wave of sick leave. No one wants to be a torturer, even on orders. In place of the Polish asylum system, a chain of top-down orders and prohibitions is created. This law is intended to give the appearance of the legality of the bad practice already applied at the request of the government. And she absolutely shouldn't be accepted.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u665	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As a member of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad, I wanted to introduce the characters of outstanding Poles who created and conducted important cultural and social activities for Poland abroad. I wanted to start with Mieczysław Grydzewski, who was born on 27 December 1894 in Warsaw in a Jewish family as Mieczysław Grützhändler. He started his education in the private High School of the Warsaw City Buyers' Meeting. He began his university studies in Moscow, where he studied law, then studied history and philosophy with Marcel Handelsman and Władysław Tatarkiewicz at the University of Warsaw. In 1922 he received a doctorate in Polish-French relations during the time of King Stanisław August Poniatowski. During World War I, he actively sympathized with the soccer team and served at the Press Office of the Supreme Command. He was among the founders and editors of Skamandra. During the interwar period, for the creation of the weekly Literary News, together with Anton Borman, they sold a ring after Grydzewski's mother and a set of tires to obtain share capital. This week has become a truly pluralistic medium that allowed everyone to speak, regardless of their cultural or political affiliation. They wrote there, among other things. Stanisław Żeromski and Melchior Wańkowicz. Grydzewski also published in collaboration with Julian Tuwim and Anton Borman a magazine called To-To. He was also active for La Pologne Literaire and the writings of Culture. On September 3, 1939, the last issue of the Literary News was published, and soon Grydzewski left for France. In Paris he began to publish Polish, Political and Literature news since 1940. Then he was forced to go to Great Britain, where he continued to publish and edit the weekly news until 1966. This outstanding author on emigration also led the Academy of Literature on emigration. He died in 1970. His ashes were scattered at Golders Green Cemetery.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u666	In the vote no. 10 at the 37th session of the Sejm on expressing a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Grzegorz Puda, I mistakenly pressed the counter button. My intention was to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-16-sejm-37-2.u667	I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 9:00 a.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 1 min 44]]
