ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u1	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 10.30, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 11, - Public Finance - hour. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 11, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 11, - Health-- hour. 11, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Health - h.m. 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 12, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 12.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 13, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 13.30, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - immediately after the end of the joint meeting of the committee convened at noon. 11, approx. hour. 14, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 14, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 2.30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 15, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 15, - Infrastructure - hour 15, - Agriculture and Rural Development jointly with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 15, - Economy and Development - h.m. 16, - National Defence together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 16, - Public Finance - hour. 4:30 p.m., - National Defense at 5 p.m. 17, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 17, - Foreign Affairs - hour 17, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 18, - Public Finance - hour. 6:30 p.m., - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 19, - Economics and Development in cooperation with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 20. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Promotion of Health in Each Size - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: regulation of statutory mountain policy - h. 19. On behalf of Ms Ewa Kołodziej, President of the Parliamentary Group for Diabetes, and the Polish Diabetes Association as part of the celebration of World Diabetes Day in the Polish Sejm, we invite you to test blood sugar free of charge. Studies will allow you to know the level of glycaemic control and, if necessary, to seek educational advice and in-depth diagnostics. All interested parliamentarians and employees of the Sejm and Senate Office of the Republic of Poland are invited to study on 16th and 17th November, Tuesday and Wednesday, at 10 p.m. In the lobby of the building U - ground floor, behind the position of the Marshal's Guard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u2	Thank you. I would like to remind you that this morning all Members received texts indicating that there is an absolute order to wear masks in the plenary room in view of the increasing number of diseases, including among the employees of our Parliament. I therefore address all those countries who do not have masks at the moment. There are seven Members who have medical leave. [[Illegal!]] Don't yell, because you know... [[Illegal!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, either you put on your masks, or I will give you the right rules in a moment and remove you from the plenary room. [[Applause]] There's no consent to endangering other people's health. Once again, I ask the members of the Confederation to wear masks. [[Please obey the law.]] Mr President, I have already told you that by the decision of the court to which you have complained against me, the complaint has been revoked, or actually dismissed, because the Sejm, the Marshal, has the right to issue such orders. [[There's no right!]] Please put on your mask, sir. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] He's on sick leave. I see who has a medical discharge, so I do not reprimand these Members, but the others do not. May I have this? [[What's the reason for this fire?]] [[Voice in the O.R.: Dismissed from the psychiatrist.]] Please, Mr Bosak, Mr Kulesza, Mr Braun, Mr Dziambor has an exemption, Mr Sosnierz, Mr Urbaniak, Mr Kaminski also has an exemption, and Mr Berkowicz. I would like to ask the Members I have read to wear masks. [[Voice from the hall: From what doctor?]] [[Please obey the law.]] Mr Bosak assumed, all right. The other gentlemen aren't, are they? [[Then let the sick get out themselves.]] I address Mr Kulesza, Mr Braun, Mr Sosnierz, Mr Urbaniak and Mr Berkowicz. Members, on the basis of Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call on Members to order. [[I'm addressing your marshal, please comply with the law.]] [[Siarkowska.]] On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call on Members to order and say that you are preventing the proceedings from being held. [[Voice from the O.R.: Reminding you of my release.]] [[Voice from the room: Stay away.]] [[You're infecting people now, what are you doing?]] Mr. Sosnierz has a medical discharge. [[Where?]] [[Voice from the room: Did he show? He didn't.]] So I'm reading again. [[The exemptions must be added to the property statements.]] Mr Kulesza, Mr Braun, Mr Kaminski and Mr Berkowicz, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 5, since you are still preventing the proceedings, I am deciding to exclude you from the sitting of the Sejm. [[Applause]] In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I ask you to leave the plenary room. Let us proceed to the formal proposals. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Left. I would like to ask these Members to leave the room. [[Voice out of the room: Out.]] Mr Kulesza, you either wear a mask or you leave the room. [[You've already ruled me out.]] Mr Kaminski and Mr Kulesza, I ask you to leave the room. [[Voice from the room: Marshal's Guard.]] [[And Mrs Siarkowska?]] Here you go, with a formal request from Karolina Pavliczak, Lewis. One minute, Member. You're welcome. To the record, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Krystian Kaminski has a medical discharge, I missed it. So you can stay in the Chamber. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr, if you cannot be wearing a mask, don't come to the meeting.]] [[Then don't let them come to the meeting.]] Please, Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am filing a formal request for a break and a convent of the Senior Convention to supplement the information of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the scandalous events that happened in our city - Kalisz, where nationalists burned the Kaliski Statute in the city centre. [[Applause]] It was all under cover or under the umbrella of the service, the police. [[That's not true!]] Please inform us why this has happened. The Calissians, the people of our city, expect accurate information on this matter. They are here, in this Chamber, Members and Members of our common district. Why aren't you responding? Why are you keeping your mouth shut about this? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We expect detailed information on this. Ladies and gentlemen! Kalisz is an open city, a tolerant, multicultural city, and we want to keep it that way. Thank you very much. Mrs... And those who are responsible for these events must... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u4	Member, first of all... Madam President, we will be voting on the request for a break in a moment, because this is a formal proposal. On the other hand, I would like to ask you not to talk about a lack of reaction. The reaction was immediate. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We all condemn what happened in Kalisz. The prosecution has taken action, the perpetrator has been apprehended. Madame, saying that nothing is done about this is simply not true. [[Your marshal, may I?]] [[You don't do anything.]] [[As opposed to it.]] As a formal request for a break has been made, I will put this request to the vote. You're welcome, the opposite vote. [[Marshal, read Jan Mosiński's tweets from the PiS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As an inhabitant of Kalisz, I would like to say one thing very strongly here. Events in Kalisz took place, but were not organized by kalishan. That's the first line. Second line. Those who have committed this shameful act are already stopped. And the third line. It is not true what Mrs Pavliczak says that we did not react. The response of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration is immediate. Please, Member, do not stir up. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u6	We'll proceed with the vote. As a request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a break will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Read Mosiński's tweets. This is an anti-Semite sentence.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Mosiński will speak.]] [[Judgment for the heyth, anti-Semith.]] [[Your marshal, the corrigendum, because that's not true.]] No, no, no. 406 Members voted. 188 - for, against - 215, 3 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[That's the kind of people you let into parliament.]] Formal proposal - Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: Mr. President...]] However, I recommend a little more peace and patience. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Peace and patience, sir. [[Where's our resolution on Kalisz?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a formal request for the adjournment to this day until noon. 14 and to supplement the agenda by informing the Minister of Climate and Environment Anna Moscow about the activities of the Polish government delegation at the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow on Saturday. [[Applause]] The Polish government did not take advantage of the opportunity to present national climate targets at this summit. Instead, he was given the title of fossil of the day for the key to the date of departure from coal. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Disgraceful. In the meantime, the final agreement of the summit makes clear that the time for coal in energy is running out and the time for energy from renewable sources begins. We want clear information about what the Polish delegation at the climate summit did besides ridicule Poland. [[Madam, there are current questions. These are current questions and current information.]] How will the Glasgow agreements be implemented? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What did the Minister achieve at the summit? [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u8	Thank you, Member. As a motion for adjournment has been made, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 187 - for, 215 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u9	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Glasgow climate summit is over, and we are still the only country in the Union that has not announced a specific date of departure from coal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] For a moment, it seemed that the government had decided to retreat from fossil fuels in one time with developed countries, which is by the end of the 1930s, but we withdrew cancer from those promises. We all felt some shame when the government put us in a number of developing countries that, on their journey to the future, chose a smoking car and would sit in it until 2049. And I hear our economy is so great. [[Mr Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Bravo for the government.]] Poland has its representation within the EU's representation, it has had every freedom to make declarations, to influence the summit's resolutions, and I therefore formally request that the session be postponed until tomorrow. 9 and to supplement the order on the information of the Prime Minister (The Bell) regarding the findings and participation of the Polish delegation in COP26. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u10	Thank you, Member. The request for deferral has already been voted, and I will not put it to the vote. Mrs Anna Maria Siarkowska, Law and Justice. Please. [[Mask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Priests are murdered again in Poland. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: This is funny to you?]] It began with the assignment of wines under collective responsibility to the general public of the Church. And then? Then the sting started. Word aggression - that's what we witnessed. [[Voice from the room: Indeed.]] Word aggression, then desecration of religious symbols, mocking what is most sacred to Poles, demolishing places of worship. Then we were also dealing with the dehumanization of Catholics and clergymen. There was also a call for violence, and then there were acts of violence and physical aggression, beatings. But now it has come to pass that on 11 November, on the feast of independence (the bell), a priest - Father Maximilian, Franciscan was murdered in Siedlce. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: Time!]] [[Voice from the room: End! Time!]] [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] Mrs... He was murdered in the park. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: What conclusion?]] Madame, this is not a formal proposal. I'm sorry, but this is not a formal conclusion. Your marshal, please, because here's the thing... Member of the Commission, in a different way. Thank you very much. Marshal, you're welcome. What conclusion? [[Voice from the room: What conclusion?]] [[But time's up.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You have 10 seconds. [[Marshal turns on the microphone]] In connection with the murder of o. Maximilian in the Siedlce to which they led... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] Mrs... ...LGBT movements, extreme left as part of the campaign... [[The Marshal turns off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off, the movement in the Chamber, some Members hit the desktops.]] ...I'm filing for a recess... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u12	Thank you, Member. The request for a break has already been voted on. I will therefore not put this proposal to the vote. We proceed with the consideration of items 1 and 2 of the agenda: I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Andrzej Bittel to present the justification for the bill contained in print 1729. [[Game in the O.R.]] I would very much like to ask Members to leave the Chamber and allow the Minister to present the reasons for the bill. I'm asking you to transfer the conversations to the cockroaches.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the reasons for the Government's legislative initiative to amend the Local Tax and Charges Act, print No 1729. This initiative in the form of an amendment to the Act on Local Taxes and Charges is due to the demands raised by local government units to seal the system of real estate tax exemptions for railway property in connection with the use of railway land for activities in an area which is not related to rail. This is directly related to the judicial practice of the courts. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]] Minister, just a moment, please. I ask your Members to silence the talks, possibly to move them outside the Parliamentary Chamber, because we are preventing the Minister from speaking. I welcome Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, who will justify the bill. Senator, you're welcome. Just a moment, Minister. I'll let you know. Senator, take your seat. Maybe not in the president's chair. You're welcome, Minister. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Thank you very much. The sealing project is directly linked to the judicial practice of the administrative courts, which, in my opinion, accept an extension of the interpretation of the current rules. The project clarifies the scope of the real estate tax exemption in the area of rail real estate exemption in order to seal the exemption system and comprehensive regulation of the area. The proposed real estate tax exemptions include land, buildings and buildings that are part of a railway infrastructure or service facility, within the meaning of the Railway Transport Act, in part exclusively occupied for the performance of the infrastructure manager's tasks or for the provision of services by the service facility operator, where the railway infrastructure or service facility is made available to railway operators or railway infrastructure or service facility is used for passenger transport, or the railway infrastructure creates wide-range railway lines, or the railway infrastructure is a closed infrastructure. The second point on this exemption covers land, buildings and buildings in the part intended for the provision by the railway operator or by the operator of a passenger station of services directly related to the service of travellers. The third part is property other than those referred to above, constituting a railway area, with the exception of land, buildings and structures used for non-rail activities. This requirement to seal the system boils down to the fact that the property is exempt from real estate tax only in the part in which it is engaged in the operation of railway activities within the areas indicated just now, by linking the exemption to the operation of railway activities consisting in the management of railway infrastructure, service facility, the provision of services related to the direct service of travellers, the use of infrastructure or facilities for the transport of passengers. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that before the implementation in 2016 of Directive 34 on the establishment of a single European railway area in the Polish legal order, rail infrastructure constituted all railway elements constituting a technical and utility whole, enabling the carriage of persons or goods. Together with the implementation of the above. the Directive has changed the nomenclature, which has resulted in a distinction between railway infrastructure, covering in principle lines and railway sidings, and service infrastructure facilities, including infrastructure components for inter alia. the assembly of trains or manoeuvring and transhipments, as well as passenger stations, technical facilities, parking tracks and other installations necessary for the smooth and safe operation of rail transport. It is therefore important that all elements enabling the transport of goods or persons on a functional basis should be exempted. For this reason, rail infrastructure and service facilities were exempted from real estate tax. The exemption is also proposed to cover wide-range railway lines, similar to the existing legal situation. The inclusion of a tax exemption for inactive infrastructure is justified in view of the need to maintain this infrastructure, as well as the fact that the tax exemption would not benefit from the infrastructure exempted from traffic in order to modernise it. In accordance with the provisions of the Railway Transport Act, the infrastructure in which the infrastructure manager did not allow traffic should be understood as closed infrastructure. Literally this means that it will be an infrastructure managed by an entity which has the status of an infrastructure manager on which there is no traffic. The exemption for parts of real estate intended for the provision of services directly related to the service of travellers aims to clarify the exemption from property tax for those elements of passenger infrastructure which are necessary to maintain in view of public expectations. First, the proposed exemption is conditional on the provision of services by the railway operator or the operator of the passenger station. Secondly, the exemption will cover only part of the real estate occupied for the provision of services related to direct travel services. And thirdly, the concept of service directly related services has not raised any doubts so far. However, in order to avoid differences in interpretation, the reasons for the proposed act are set out in the elements related to the direct handling of travellers. The elements subject to the tax exemption include public areas directly linked to the handling of passengers by the railway or passenger station operator, including waiting rooms, station halls and mezzanines, separate spaces adapted for feeding and scrolling children, toilets, access to green areas, e.g. for passengers travelling with animals, areas in front of ticket offices, areas occupied by ticket offices and other areas intended for sale of tickets, information points, pedestrian traffic lines, occupied areas under passenger lifts and other equipment for the movement of persons with reduced mobility, ramps, footbridges, shelters against atmospheric factors, parking and parking spaces for vehicles, public roads to platforms, railway station or other public spaces, access lines to parking spaces with infrastructure - freight cranes, intruders, ramps, viaducts, tunnels - areas for placing additional information for passengers designated by the operator of the passenger station in accordance with applicable regulations, technical facilities in the section serving the proper functioning of the above. passenger station elements. Ww. the elements and surfaces are intended to provide adequate, i.e. universal and general, accessibility of passenger service facilities for travellers using them and thus serve the provision of a service directly related to the service of travellers, i.e. a service to meet the needs of travellers directly related to the purpose of the rail transport journey. Examples include: parking and parking spaces for vehicles made available for public transport passengers, such as Park & Ride parking lots, Bike & Ride stations, for travelers from another means of transport: car, motorcycle, bike, scooter etc. To the train. This solution is also intended to enable passenger stations to be converted into transport hubs linking different branches and modes of transport: cars with rail, long-distance and urban bike with rail - different elements can be introduced here. As regards the last issue I wanted to raise, namely the exemption for other non-commercial real estate - these are, as a general rule, non-rail use - the tax exemption for land, buildings and buildings located in a railway area which are not used for other than rail activities is justified in order to maintain the existing tax exemption for, among others. railway land such as intersector or safety belts, as well as immovable property held as a reserve for future needs of the railway sector, including investment. Without this footnote, these properties would be subject to property tax due to the wording of the provision sealing the system, since the previously indicated tax exemption concerns only part of the property intended to perform the tasks of the infrastructure manager or infrastructure operator. I ask the High House to adopt this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. As before I announced, among us is Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, who is also the President of the Polish Towns Association. I very much welcome the senator and would like to present the justification for the bill contained in print no. 919.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate proposes that you adopt a short law that eliminates the obvious tax gap in real estate tax, which is the income of municipalities. The amendment of the Railway Transport Act of 16 November 2016 amended Article. Paragraph 7 1 Act on local taxes and charges. It resulted in the exemption of all registration parcels on which the railway infrastructure was located, even if only small parts of those parcels were earmarked for this purpose, and the main activity of the operator was not related to the railway activity. As a result, there have been very significant losses in tax revenues and illegal public aid. Self-governments have repeatedly intervened in this matter practically from the beginning, i.e. for 5 years. The sum of losses, which is quite difficult to determine, by local governments is estimated at over PLN 1 billion during this period, which is really significant money. If we consider that this tax is not lost evenly by all municipalities, but on a very large scale by a few, this leads to the conclusion that some municipalities are in a very bad financial situation. The Senate's proposal seeks to amend the wording of the Article. Paragraph 7 Point 1, namely the addition of the wording "excluding buildings, buildings and land used for purposes other than those laid down in the Rail Transport Act'. There's a similar record in the government project. These two draft laws in this section are very similar, but the government project is wider. Namely, it extends the exemption as regards the service infrastructure used for the provision of passenger services and rail traffic services, and there are reservations that the service can only be related to the task of the infrastructure manager or to the provision of services by the operator within the meaning of the Railway Transport Act. These safeguards seem sufficient, but there is concern about the effectiveness of these records, because we have experience from five years ago, when it also seemed that the bill, colloquially speaking, is tight and created a tax gap. The second extension is the new extension to a closed infrastructure with an unlimited exemption from real estate tax of this inactive infrastructure. I don't think that's a good solution. It is stated in the explanatory memorandum that the reason for this exemption is to carry out modernisations and renovations, which are by nature temporary in nature, and therefore, in my view, the exemption for an unlimited period of time is a mistake. The property tax has not only a fiscal function, it also leads to active management of real estate. When the exemption is unlimited, there will be no significant incentive for active management of this infrastructure, and this will lead even more to the maintenance, often in city centres, of neglected infrastructure, which is a fatal business card. That's what we should leave. And perhaps the most important issue, namely in the government project the proposed date of entry into force of the Act is 1 January 2023, i.e. the 5 years of the existence of losses in the income of local government units will be the whole year. The Senate printing was accepted in the Senate even a year ago, also on November 16th. There was time to deal with this so that the amended provision would enter into force on 1 January 2022. That is what I am asking, and I am asking very much, because, as I said, the problem may not apply to very many local authorities, but to those concerned in a dramatic way. These are often small municipalities that do not have diversified sources of income, and the loss in this area is extremely painful for them. I'm just going to name some examples of communities like Terespol. Or the Fame. The larger municipalities are also concerned, but there is a wider tax base. Among such larger cities is Auschwitz or Swarzędzim. I think that in the mobilisation of our side, i.e. the government side, and the Sejm, and the Senate, it is still possible to publish in November and enter into force the rule from 1 January 2022. I believe that abuse in this area can no longer be tolerated because the problem is growing from one year to the next. Namely, cases of land consolidation are known in order to ensure that in a large area where only a small part is occupied under railway infrastructure, and that large economic activities outside the railway sector are carried out, there is a exemption from property tax. This is an unjustified state aid and an entirely unacceptable loss in the income of local government units. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u16	Thank you very much, senator. I encourage you to stay and take part in the discussion that will take place in the Parliament. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and three minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Mariusz Trepek will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government's draft law on amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges, print No. 1729, and against the Senate draft law, print No. 919. The project concerns the clarification of the scope of the real estate tax exemption as regards railway land, in particular land occupied by railway infrastructure managers and service infrastructure operators. Designed solutions seal the system of real estate tax exemptions when using railway land to operate in an area not related to rail. As a consequence, the proposed solutions will eliminate the abuse of interpretation of the current rules by some entrepreneurs who, while not operating on the railway market, use the provision to avoid taxation and reduce the revenue from property tax to municipal budgets. The real estate tax exemptions for railway infrastructure have been introduced since the beginning of the Act on local taxes and charges. Until today, tax exemptions are still identical and include railway land. But because of the implementation of the European Union's legal system in Poland, the nomenclature has changed. Therefore, what was still a railway infrastructure six years ago may now be a service infrastructure operating and operating within the rail system harmonised by European Union law. The proposed provision will allow for taxing parts of land, buildings or buildings used for commercial activities, i.e. e.g. leased, rented by entities other than the railway operator or the operator of the passenger station. The proposed law also adds a new point to reduce the burden on real estate tax for land, buildings and buildings which are not used for any activity and are maintained as a reserve of land, buildings and buildings for the development of the railway sector, including future investments. At the same time, an exception is introduced in which the existence of an economic activity other than rail will result in the absence of a real estate tax exemption. The entry into force of these regulations should result in an increase in tax revenue to some of the municipalities' budgets due to the sealing of the use of tax exemptions in the railway sector. The proposed solutions aim to eliminate the problem raised by local government units regarding tax avoidance by entities engaged in other than rail economic activities. The date of entry into force of the proposed law was set at 1 January 2023 due to the need to maintain the corresponding vacathio legis for the proposed regulations. This solution will also allow the examination of new regulations and appropriate procedures to be carried out in the context of possible State aid in relation to freight terminals. It is worth noting that in the Sejm a senate draft law on amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges was submitted, the Sejm No. 919, which deals with the abuse of real estate tax exemptions, causing the risk of further use of exemptions by non-businesses operating on the railway market. At the same time, the Senate project would lead to almost double taxation of railway entities compared to the current one, which would lead in fact to subsidising local government units by these entities and to halting the development of rail transport in Poland. Therefore, the government project deserves to be adopted as soon as possible, because on the one hand it seals the tax system and on the other it promotes rail transport and its development as a safe and environmentally sound means of transport for both people and goods. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to say that the club will be working on both draft laws on amending the Law on railway taxes and charges, print Nos 1729 and 919. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u18	Thank you very much for your position. The Civic Coalition will now speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club by Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition on draft laws amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges: the Senate draft law contained in print No. 919 and the government draft law contained in print No. 1729. The purpose of these draft laws is to clarify the scope of the real estate tax exemption set out in Article. 7 Act on local taxes and charges in the area of exemption of railway land. Currently, there is a tax gap to avoid taxation by entities operating on a railway site other than railway business. These are, for example, mines, shopping malls, warehouses, garages and other types of highly commercial business. There are municipalities here - I will mention, for example, those from my district - like Osiecznica, a municipality that has mainly forests, Nowogrodziec, but also Terespol, Sławków and a number of others on its surface. For this reason, local authorities are suffering heavy losses in respect of property tax, which is estimated at about PLN 200 million per year. The Senate draft law clarifies and narrows the rules in the article. 7, which defines the scope of the real estate tax exemption. The project introduces a solution whereby the exemption will not apply to the entire registration parcel, as it is currently referred to as a railway parcel, but only to the part where the elements of the railway infrastructure which are used for the purposes set out in the Railway Transport Act are located. It should be stressed that the Senate project, sealing the property tax and very expected by local authorities, entered the Sejm even a year ago and waited all year long for the procession. The question arises: Why is it taking so long? The government project contains rules that also close the tax gap. In this part of the project, these projects are convergent and do not raise doubts. How do these projects differ? First and foremost, the date of entry into force of the expected changes. The government project proposes the entry into force of 1 January 2023, mainly because of the avoidance of a plea of breach of the constitutional rule of the democratic rule of law. In line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of 2001 and 2005, changes in taxes the tax dimension of which is made for an annual period should be announced at least one month before the end of the previous tax year. Questions arise. Why did the government wait so long on its project until there was a danger of exceeding the deadline one month before the end of the tax year? Why didn't the Marshal of the Sejm refer to the Senate project, which sealed the property tax? And yet tax sealing is a top priority for the government. Will local government lose another 200 million PLN in 2022 for the above reasons? I hope that the government and the Sejm will make good use of this short but still possible time for the Act to enter into force on 1 January 2022. And the other difference. The government project introduces additional reliefs in real estate tax, i.e. exemption from so-called tax. the railway-related service infrastructure, the permanent exemption of inactive infrastructure, which is temporarily excluded due to planned renovation and modernisation, the exemption of land which constitute provisions for railway development. These proposals for additional reductions raise doubts, and in particular the permanent release of inactive infrastructure, which is to be temporarily excluded according to the project. In our view, this time of release should be precisely defined and adopted e.g. The most appropriate 5-year release time. So far it's been -- I remind you -- three years. I hope that the doubts regarding additional reliefs and the constructive establishment of vacathio legis will be carefully addressed, and that the projects will be directed to further legislative work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u20	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mr Robert Obaz to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act on amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges is expected by municipalities throughout Poland, especially by those who have encountered abuse of the current provisions of the Act by some entrepreneurs who, without carrying out the activities of the manager on the railway market, used the rules to avoid taxation. The problem which contributed to the reduction of income from real estate tax to municipal budgets has been known to the government since the entry into force of the unfortunate provisions of the Act on local taxes and charges of 1 January 2017 for local government. The tardiness of the Ministry of Infrastructure has put municipalities in Poland before having to repay the excess tax, as the Ministry knew from the oral accounts of representatives of local organisations operating within the Joint Government and Territorial Self-Government Commission, as well as the task force. infrastructure and local development and regional policy. Also in response to my parliamentary inquiry to the Ministry of Infrastructure, I received information confirming that the Ministry was well aware of the consequences of the law implemented, which basically punished the local government. The amendment could therefore be examined at least a year earlier at the time when the Ministry developed solutions that eliminated the problem. The municipalities have repeatedly called on the Ministry and the government to allocate money to compensate local authorities for the application of tax exemptions in respect of land, buildings and railway infrastructure. However, they did not receive any money in this regard. The changes to the legislation have proved extremely dangerous for the budgets of municipalities. As a result, many of the planned investments were not completed or their implementation has been delayed. An example in the deer-legnica region can be the Osiecnica or Novgorodiec. The necklace was forced to refund the overpaid tax for the years 2017 and 2019 in the amount of PLN 3 million. The reimbursement of such an amount for such small municipalities could have extremely dangerous financial consequences. The responsibility for reducing the financial capacity of the local government is not the first time that falls on the current government, but in this case almost four years from the onset of the problem to its resolution, which shows the failure of the government of law and justice to work on key issues for the support and development of local government. Taking into account the positive views of the municipalities on the provisions contained in this Act and the need to resolve the legal situation as soon as possible, the Left Club will vote in favour of the Act presented by the Ministry of Infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u22	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u23	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I would like to present a position towards the government's draft law on amending the law on local taxes and charges and the Senate's draft law on amending the law on local taxes and charges. The first one is in print No 1729 and the second one in print No 919. This difference even in the given print numbers shows an important, because the over-annual time interval between one project and the other. And here I join the critical voices talking about inaction almost annually or over a year, about the lack of proceding over the senate project. I do not hide that the analysis of both projects leads us as a club to see better solutions in the senate project, better adapted to the situation that prevails today. It cannot be avoided that it is in a government project that, in order to remedy actually quite a significant gap in tax law, there are de facto more ways to ensure that a large number of entities continue to avoid taxation, to avoid the appropriate charges that should be paid to the local government. This isn't right. A good law should be a precise law, which is a kind of panacea for the problem. And here we see, knowing the fantasy and propensity of many actors, that unfortunately there will still be a kind of gray zone in terms of using railway areas to operate and not tax real estate. Minister, a simple example. If the shopping gallery, which was located on the so-called. in the area or railway land, it will launch some marginal part of its activity, which will fall within the scope of rail services, it will de facto also receive to a large extent exemption and will benefit from those solutions that you are introducing. The Union of Polish Metropolises, as well as the Association of Rural Municipalities of the Republic of Poland, have been very precise, substantive and clear about both projects, because many local governments have been struggling with this problem for many years. I think that we will largely present these insights of both corporations during further work on these projects. We think we need to process them, and we want to do it. As a club, we are in favour of both projects going into further work. In order to deal with the problem in a real way, it will take a lot of change, but we are open to working on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u24	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the floor of Mr Arthur Dziambor, who will present the position of the Confederate Group.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u25	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I wanted to say: Law and Justice, like the typical socialists, is valiantly repairing the mistakes that they themselves have made, that is, fighting the problems that they themselves have created. In this case, we have the issue of real estate tax, local tax. For obvious reasons, when you introduced such a law that allows entrepreneurs to benefit from some relief, it was clear that entrepreneurs who cared about having the lowest possible cost of doing business - praise them - would do anything to benefit from this relief. And the fact that there was such a gateway should be assessed positively, not negatively. If there are people so entrepreneurial that they can take advantage of the opportunities that already give them a very heavy and very complex tax law, then they should actually be applauded rather than tightened around their necks all the time. Your spokesperson, Mr Fogiel, said that Law and Justice is a party that regularly deals with tax reduction. In the meantime, we are sitting today - after an initial small talk - starting with a point that is literally an increase in property tax. Even in this law itself, it is clear in its analysis that the only ones who lose on it are entrepreneurs who conduct their business activities in areas covered by the current exclusion and who do not carry out specific economic activities related to the destination of these areas. There are thousands of such entrepreneurs. These are the thousands of people whom you introduce with this bill and with this vote a higher tax, which is the higher cost of doing their business. Thus, with these tiny steps, tiny taxes that you introduce or raise, you lead to a situation in which you are reluctant to be entrepreneurial, you are reluctant to run companies in Poland, you are reluctant to create jobs. You are simply - as you have noticed many times here - people who have no idea of running any activity. They're smarter than you who can read the various weird laws you're making, and praise them for that, and I really congratulate them and admire them. You, on the other hand, have been ambushing these people and trying to figure out what to do here to make them worse, and here is a disgrace to you, because you should make sure that people who do their jobs are as easy as possible in their lives. You should make sure your taxes are as low as possible. In the case of real estate tax, you should make sure that it is possibly local, but you should never interfere with any development. Unfortunately, the situation is different. It's sad, it's sad. The worst part is, I think it's a big part of the room, except for yours. Socialist so-called The right hand, the united side, will vote in favour. The Confederacy will be against it. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Oh, Arthur.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u26	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Mirosław Suchon to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u27	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 in the joint discussion on the Senate draft law on amending the Act on local taxes and charges included in print No. 919 and the governmental bill on amending the Act on local taxes and charges included in print No. 1729. High Izbo! The proposed laws amend the Act of 12 January 1991 on local taxes and charges. The main objective of the projects presented is to clarify the provisions determining the scope of the real estate tax exemption referred to in Article. Paragraph 7 1 of this law in the section on exemption from rail land tax. The proposed solutions remove the real estate tax gap, which results in the application of the real estate tax exemption to entities that have in fact nothing to do with railway infrastructure activities other than the fact that they operate on railway land. This is, of course, the result of the statutory tax exemption for parcels registered as railway areas. The current wording does not distinguish whether there are elements of railway infrastructure on the plot or whether there are other activities. Such a systematics, of course, has negative consequences. First, it favours some of the operators operating on railway land by applying the real estate tax exemption. This leads to an unjustified competitive advantage over those entrepreneurs who operate on other land and normally pay property tax. Secondly, it also means losing part of the income of the local government, i.e. the inhabitants of those places where the land is exempt from tax. The result of this situation is e.g. lower investment expenditure. As the senator pointed out, the sum of these redundancies could already have reached over PLN 1 billion, which is a very large amount of money. With regard to both projects, it should be noted that in order to clarify the content of the provision in Article. 7 (1) Senate and Government projects are similar, while the government project is thus extending the exemption to include those infrastructure elements which serve to provide services related to the provision of travel services and to inactive infrastructure. Here, of course, the question arises as to how these exemptions will be applied, because there is no justification for the exemption to be subject to those parts which constitute, for example, an exemption. elements for commercial activities. On behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 requests that the project be submitted to the committee for further work. Doubts concerning (the bell) even the part used for commercial activities must be settled. There is no justification for such land being exempt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u28	Thank you very much. I would now like to present the position of Mr Richard Galla.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Minister! The draft laws on amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges, which are being examined at today's meeting - government printing is No. 1729, Senate printing has No. 919 - are designed to clarify the scope of tax exemptions in the area of railway infrastructure. This also applies to entities that manage or own the infrastructure. This project is particularly important for local authorities, where such infrastructure is located. It also shows that the Committee on Public Finance a few months ago had a very intense debate on the extent to which the statutory tax exemptions for such real estate were to be recorded. I must say, this is very important for local governments. There was such a coincidence that local governments are finishing at the moment - or have already finished - work on budget projects. Ladies and gentlemen, these are truly exceptional budgets. In the event of a collision with the introduction of the Polish Cargo they will have big problems. An example is my community. The draft budget submitted shows that it cannot be balanced particularly with regard to expenditure and current revenue. This is a very serious problem which does not concern municipalities individually. This is a very serious matter that we should bear in mind. We should pay attention to this when we proceed with this bill. In my municipality, the tax charged for railway infrastructure amounts to more than 100,000. zł. Of course, on the scale of the state budget it is small money, but for the municipality, which has a budget of about PLN 40 million, which has been very limited in recent years due to changes in the boundaries of the municipality... This only makes us wish for investment expenses. Therefore, any money that is on the income side is very important. It's a good thing we have two projects today: government and senate. I think that on the basis of these two projects we will certainly create one good project, which will also take into account the well-being of local governments. If you don't mind, I'd like to concentrate on a few things. The first point is the most important. Minister, do we know what the effects of these changes will be? What additional income will municipalities be able to obtain in terms of local taxes? I would also like to ask about the current situation with regard to regional transport. These are the actors who carry out the most important tasks. It's about getting people to work and young people to schools. I asked the Marshal of Opole Voivodship about the functioning of these transports and I must say that in general the local authorities of the voivodships pay the amounts representing around 60% the total costs. My question is this: Will today's proposals for entries have an impact on the fact that the marshals will spend this money - because these are ours, taxpayers, money - in smaller amounts? I would also like to draw attention to the issue of the importance of separating this part of the infrastructure which will be legally exempted from the infrastructure from which the local authorities will be able to achieve taxes. Are these issues agreed with local governments? Because I think local governments know best what's going on in the field. You are talking about statutory exemptions for these land or infrastructure for future investments. I understand that this is a trap where he's hiding, I'd say, a property that's been unnecessary to the railroad for years. We know exactly that this property is very, very much. I'll give you an example of my municipality: there's a railway station, there's a building, but as a passenger, I don't go into this building because we've been built a windshield, where we're looking forward to coming trains, and the municipality doesn't get tax. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that we should separate this part of the estate. If he's expendable, he deserves it, I don't know... [[Voice from the room: Transfer.]] ...to pass it on to the communes, to get rid of them, [[Applause]] or, if it is in the interest of the manager or owner, indicate the time limit within which the investment will be carried out. I think it's very important. I understand that there is also an idea regarding the statutory exemption of the exempted parts for which investments will or will be concerned, but let's remember that the investment time is running out, so it seems to me that this should be a fixed period. And I would ask you if this is definitely going to be about the entire amount that's charged. Another point I would like to raise is whether we are providing for any compensation at all. I know that for statutory tax exemptions there is compensation, probably as part of a general subsidy - I look at local government here - but the question is whether we can talk about something (the bell), which maybe the municipalities could get free of charge. And the last question about the date of entry into force of the law. I would ask that we proceed really quickly and that this bill enter into force the following year. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u30	Thank you very much, sir. We're joining Question Time. Nineteen people came in. Would any of you like to join this list? If not, I'm shutting her down. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the basic questions in the analysis of the draft law on local taxes and charges, which is pressing against the lips, is whether the senate draft law actually had to live a year in the freezer, until Prime Minister Morawiecki decided to develop a competitive project related to the same problem. How is it possible that we waited five days for the first reading of the government project and the Senate project was blocked by your marshal even a year? What prevented the Marshal of the Sejm from sending the Senate project to the committee a year ago so that the committees could possibly report to him the amendments expected by the Ministry of Infrastructure? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u32	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Designed senate solutions from print no. 919 meet the expectations of local government units and enable the elimination of the existing tax gap. It allows for the use of a real estate tax exemption by entities that do not operate on the railway market and use a non-precision provision to avoid taxation. Minister, will the Government of Law and Justice support the changes proposed in the bill? The Government's draft Print Act No 1729 was sent to the public for consultation with a shorter, 14-day deadline for submitting comments. Minister, why is the legislative process on the project missing the stage of inter-ministerial agreements and opinions? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u34	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Mark Rutka a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The United Right systematically reduces the revenue of local governments, and I therefore welcome the solutions contained in the project on which we are proceeding, which will enable local authorities to benefit from the railway infrastructure on their territory. I have a question about the rules on the charging of real estate tax in the case of LHS railway sidings, i.e. the so-called. Wide-range steel line with 1520 mm rail spacing, so-called. Russian spacing, as well as a question about the railway infrastructure located in the logistics terminal Małaszewicze which is part of the infrastructure of the new silk route.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u36	Thank you. I now ask Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my questions I will focus on the inventory of land so-called. Railways used for this purpose. Well, as we know, only in part they are actually used, as the previous speakers said, some of them are so-called. reserves, often long-term, actually useless. I would therefore like to ask for written information on whether the resort has any knowledge of the area of railway land. The second question concerns the so-called. Utilities. I encourage you to look at the railway land that has not been used for decades. The next question concerns the so-called. reserves. The previous speaker also just said that it's a year old again... For decades (the bell) these areas lie apart in hope or... They're lying down because they're lying down, 'cause maybe someday they'll be useful. These areas must undoubtedly be inventoryed, their functions identified, and those that are not used, given to local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u38	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u39	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Unfortunately, you didn't say anything about the possibility of tax exemption in the case of private railway sidings. The draft amendment of the law on local taxes and charges assumes that railway sidings with the status of private infrastructure, i.e. almost all railway sidings in Poland, will not be able to obtain exemption from property tax. This may result, Minister, in such a situation that siding users will change the status of their infrastructure to inactive infrastructure, because the infrastructure is already out of service. The provisions presented may reduce the attractiveness of maintaining hundreds of railway sidings in Poland. Question, Minister: Has the Ministry carried out analyses in this area and knows how many sidings such a situation may be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u40	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to ask the Minister whether a balance has been made on the land from which you are not paying tax at the moment. What kind of relief is there, and how many losses in this area should you compensate the local authorities? This is extremely important. The second point concerns the state of certain properties which are the property of the railway. I think the Minister is prepared to answer my question, as on 26 September the Prime Minister was in Mielec. During your visit, you showed only the platform, and you did not show the station I was talking about at the committee meeting. I wrote you a letter asking you when the station program would be covered by the Mielec station, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I've been making amendments for six years, and you texted me back that it would be in the years 2024 and 2030. I think you should hurry up with the declarations made by the Prime Minister in Mielec rather than delay the integration of this station into the station program. I want a written answer to that question, and I will also ask that at the meeting of the finance committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u42	Thank you very much. I now ask Małgorzata Navel to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's works are covered by two drafts amending the Act on local taxes and charges. Why are we still investigating these projects today? The first one was filed by the Senate a year ago and the second one was filed by the government five days ago. Is that the law? The government assures us that sealing the rail land tax will guarantee the municipalities additional money, so why are you delaying the adoption of this project. The truth, however, looks different. On the one hand, you are talking about compensating local governments for the losses they have suffered in connection with the changes that have been made in recent years in relation to the taxation of railway land, and on the other hand, you want to take the money they have due, acting in a way that has slowed down. Why is the date of entry into force of this law so distant, January 2023? I also have a question (the bell) about unlimited exemptions, which may give rise to interpretation doubts and even to a tax gap. Will this provision be clarified during the procedure? I wanted to ask you what compensation is envisaged for local government units. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u44	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Simon the Weather to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u45	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The government's draft law seals, clarifies the system of real estate tax exemption for railway land used to carry out activities in an area not related to rail. I have talked to the Minister several times about this problem and its consequences for local governments, so thank you, Minister, for this project. In the district of Bolesławiec, from which I come, the municipalities of Osiecznica, Nowogrodziec lost about 1600 thousand a year as a result of abuses of current regulations. zł, so you can see that the government project was very expected. Ladies and gentlemen! As a Member and at the same time a resident of the Bolesławiec land, I am keenly interested in this problem, and I also believe that the date of entry into force of this law on 1 January 2022 is possible. I'm trying to convince my friends at the club that there's a need to report any changes. I hope that the joint work of both the High House and the Senate will be effective and that the next year the local governments (The Bell) will have this larger budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u46	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Mr Dariusz Joński. I can't see. I would therefore like to ask Mr Mateusz Bochenk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sosnowiec district of Maczki is probably one of many examples, where PKP is the majority of the land ownership structure. In this case, it's almost 95%. It is about hectares of undeveloped land, which today are wasteland, around which the city has many investments in infrastructure related to sewerage, water supply and gasification. The city's arming this area. Plenty of undeveloped buildings, the destruction of the railway station, the destruction of the water tower, destroying, unfortunately already demolished military barracks, several dozen more buildings - unfortunately this is the reality in which the city invests, bears specific costs, and PKP as owner does not carry out absolutely no investments (Dawn) When will this situation change? When will local governments receive financial support and the owner takes responsibility for what he does? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u48	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish local authorities have been waiting for a long time to change the Act on local taxes and charges, which unfortunately created a legal gap and local authorities bear financial losses of about PLN 200 million per year. During the deliberations of the joint government committee and the local government, the Minister promised that the provisions of this law would be clarified so that local governments would not suffer financial losses. However, in the draft law we find an extension of the scope of the exemption, which will increase the losses of local governments. In addition, the second very important issue, i.e. vacathio legis. Why do we not want to proceed quickly so that the law enters into force from 1 January 2022, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not 2023? Why do we expose local governments to further losses, unjustified financial losses? This law needs to be clarified. I hope that this will happen in the course of work on it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u50	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mr Łącki's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am not in favour of any law that exempts any economic activity from tax, without looking at whether it's a railroad or another. Although this law at least leaves some money in the pockets of local governments, we remember the Airports Act, which, on the other hand, took even more money from local governments. So on the one hand, you give a few pennies, on the other hand, you take it; it's all the same in the state register; of course, the local government doesn't agree. But there is one activity that the state and local governments are doing, which I think is the most important thing for society or one of the most important things. Schools are exempt from property tax, military units are exempt from property tax - and very well, because such institutions should be exempt - and hospitals are not exempt from property tax. All hospitals in Poland, ladies and gentlemen, pay real estate taxes. My hospital (the bell), on the example of my hospital in Gryfice, the voivodship hospital pays 400,000. PLN per year real estate tax. Is that normal? Is it crazy that the railroad doesn't pay, airports won't pay, and hospitals have to pay property taxes? I would ask the rulers to think about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u52	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Marta Golbik.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u53	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the senator, the representative of the first project. Do you have any idea why this project waited a year? For what reason did local governments have to bear the consequences of not adopting this project for a year? What was the amount of losses incurred by local governments? But I'm also interested in what's in the future. What are the estimated losses due to the fact that the project will not enter in the beginning of 2022, but in the following year? I am interested in one more interesting element: the representative of the second project's applicants said that the Senate project will stop the development of rail transport (Dawn) in Poland. If you don't mind me asking, it's an interesting thing to refer to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u54	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u55	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Railway areas, the excluded areas are very often a huge area, very attractive economically, located in the center of cities, towns. The issue of the possibility of taxation of these areas, of additional influence by local authorities, of course we are talking about those areas that are not directly serving the functioning of the railways, is as appropriate as possible. I'd like to ask and ask for some clarification... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me. May I ask your Members to silence the conversation? 'Cause we're interrupting a friend. [[But we're quiet.]] But I do not always have to talk to the Member. Thank you, Marshal. This is to clarify those areas that actually serve railway activities and those that do not. This is because very often in these areas there are also shopping galleries, service points and the exclusion of these areas from the possibility for municipalities to collect tax is not justified. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to ask, what was the basis for the fact that only a year after the Parliamentary project was brought forward, the Senate government had dealt with this matter? We lost a year. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u56	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the municipalities where there are railway stops, there is infrastructure, of course, always around the train station or at the train station itself, while in the municipalities where the railway line runs, but passenger traffic has been disabled or there are no stops at all, there may be a situation that the infrastructure that could be used will still not be used. Therefore, I have a question as to whether there will be a collision in the case of taxation of this infrastructure, so that the railway will bear the additional cost associated with its start-up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u58	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u59	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! First of all, I wanted to thank the senator for this bill. [[Applause]] It has two very important elements. It concerns justice and equality as regards, firstly, taxation of economic operators and, secondly, as regards the finances of the local government. It was very bad that this project had to wait for a year, lying in a Seym freezer, while you are reporting parliamentary projects, and we often learn about the process in this House 24 hours. or 40 hours. Before. And I'm talking about local government and its finances, because the finances of local government are getting worse and worse. Let us remember that the local government is responsible for almost 90% of everyday affairs (the bell) that the population is dealing with. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u60	Thank you very much. I would now like to see Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Mr. Senator! I wanted to ask: Why does the government, with regard to the inactive or, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, temporarily inactive railway infrastructure propose an unlimited exemption? After all, the time of renovation or modernization can be determined. So far, such redundancies have covered three years' periods. So these exemptions are expanding and not limiting, which here was wrongly passed on by a representative of Law and Justice. I wanted to ask: Why is the government giving money to local governments so generously? Have your money. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u62	Thank you very much, Member. I would now like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u63	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Minister, I have a question about a provision on the basis of which you intend to exempt property tax in the event of the seizure of this property for purposes directly related to the service of travellers. Well, I assume this is about railway station buildings. In these buildings, various types of commercial activities are often carried out, starting with ordinary shops that supply travellers, through pharmacy and other large shops. In general, many stations have become such minigalleries of commerce. Will this provision apply to a tax exemption also in the case of commercial activities? And the second question is, do you carry out any work to prevent, however, the elimination of railway sidings? I'm talking about Bielsk Podlaski here in particular. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is a railway siding, which is threatened with liquidation and which is very important for transport, for example. high-speed materials. Is the government doing work to save the railway sidings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u64	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Arthur Dziambor a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u65	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! If an additional tax is introduced or, as some people say here, a system is sealed, which is already there, of course it always involves the fact that there is some money to be earned. And if there's any money to make, I wanted to clarify a point. I didn't make it in my three-minute speech, and I wanted to ask you if the government has accurate information, how many of these businesses are there, which is how many companies that you think are running away from additional taxation, and which are no longer able to escape this tax. And what amounts are potentially to be earned by making this seal? And the third question. What is the potential loss that landowners may suffer as they rent out railway areas that have not yet been subject to real estate tax? So I have three questions. Maybe you know the answers. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u66	Thank you very much. In this list, the list of persons enrolled in the questions was exhausted. Now please respond to them by Mr Andrzej Bittel, who is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the interesting discussion that concerns this government presentation. At first I wanted to say, of course I am not authorized to refer to the Senate project, but you will allow me to express such an opinion that it does not, however, seal this gap resulting from the case law of the administrative courts. The point is that it does not seal the issue of the provision of railway infrastructure, it leaves it in an extremely similar way to the current one. In our assessment there is a high risk that there will be no sealing. On the other hand, there will be a change in scope, and this will only apply to rail transport in the area of passenger transport. With regard to club speeches and some questions straight away, I would like to say that we do not have information in government systems - there is not such aggregated information, I do not know such information - about the amount that is now due to the existence of this gap that was created in a way that was not in line with the rules that were in force. In my view, the rules that apply allow for the peaceful collection of taxes from non-rail operators do not make railway infrastructure available. Those amounts that were falling in public space, which you pointed out to the senator, mentioned in the Senate committee - 200 million, 1 billion, local governments are putting at their risk. It's not counted in any way, although maybe it's actually that amount. However, it must be pointed out that the process in which action is combined so that the attached tax exemption parcel is not a natural process. This involves an economic operator, a registration body, an old-timer examining the application and joining it. The result is a tax exemption because someone has a piece of railway infrastructure that they do not provide. As if the case-law had taken into account the fact that rail infrastructure was being made available, it would not have been such a problem in my view. But since there is also a judicial line, neither I nor the High Sejm are able to change, there is indeed an intervention to be made, and this law serves this purpose. Second general remark: please do not confuse the closed infrastructure with the decommissioned infrastructure, which actually had a fixed deadline for the tax exemption, i.e. for 3 years after the winding-up decision no tax was levied - the end of the period. The closed infrastructure is not a decommissioned infrastructure, it is an infrastructure for which there is no train traffic, but it is not decommissioned. That's the difference. It would be particularly fun to collect a railway tax, which is closed for modernisation. Of course, the time of modernization is set, because there is a contract, there are deadlines. This is a situation where no tax is levied on a closed road during renovation if compared to the road sector. It would also be worth asking local authorities e.g. Dolnośląskie voivodship, which they consider to tax inactive infrastructure in a situation where they take over railway lines of this nature, with a plan to restore it to traffic, of course, not immediately, but over time. Then why should local governments bear the burden of municipal tax if they want to restore traffic in the future? I also wanted to say - this is the answer to many doubts or questions - that certainly in the current legal order and in this designed commercial infrastructure, commercial space, shopping galleries, as you say, should be taxed on property tax. This is not an activity which is linked to the provision of railway infrastructure. It's obvious to me. Surely there are many galleries that are taxed and where such taxation is not levied, it should be collected. Therefore, so that there is no doubt, which is raised here, very detailed and precise in the justification, but also as regards the annexes to the Rail Transport Act, we define what is a public infrastructure for the provision of infrastructure. So it is known that the place where the ticket is located should be exempt from taxation, but the shop where the business is carried out, just as all other shops in the area not located at the station should be subject to property tax. This is the answer to a lot of questions you've asked. As far as the wide line is concerned, because there was a specific question about the wide line, nothing changes here. The wording of this provision is identical: now and in the future such infrastructure should be exempt from taxation, such railway infrastructure in Małaszewicze, to the extent that it is made available to carriers or service infrastructure operators. There was a question about the siding. Yes, according to UTK data, the siding is 841. If they are publicly available, they should be exempt from taxation if they are private sidings, they do not fall within the scope of the tax exemption. And it is. I think that's how I answered the question, and in general I referred to all the questions. The clarification of these provisions and their adoption in the present form as regards the substance in my opinion will certainly have two effects. There's going to be a tax order. Those taxpayers who have benefited from the gap resulting from the case-law of the administrative courts for which they were not entitled and their neighbours from other places or who are subject to other administrative courts will locally maintain a certain level of equality in relation to the application of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And I didn't get an answer. Minister, I haven't received an answer.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u68	Thank you very much. The representative of Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz's applicants, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u69	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for the opportunity to speak again. First, I'm gonna talk about what's most important in this project, and I'm gonna answer these questions. Time of entry into force of the Act. I would just like to remind you that the law, which must now be corrected, from 2016, interestingly, also adopted on 16 November, has entered into force since 1 January 2017. Then I'm sure it's possible. In this discussion, all the problems that exist at the moment have not come to light. Namely, there is unacceptable public aid, illegal even. At the moment, there is a gap and this leads to unfair competition, because entities operating in the railway area which are exempt from property tax compete with other entities which operate without those exemptions outside the railway area. To answer the question, why this senate project waited a year. The correct answer is, I don't know. I would like to point out that the vast majority of the Senate's legislative initiatives are in the freezer. There are as important projects there as the one that is currently being processed. This is a standard, a harmful norm, and the Senate is repeatedly pagan when it works well, and on time, over seym projects. There is no cooperation, partnership or care for state affairs here. The Senate project seals the tax system - it's what we call a loophole and what we're discussing. The recording proposed by the Senate is virtually exactly the same as the one proposed by the government project, so I don't know why this suspicion would not be effective. The Minister said that it is now possible to levy tax on those entities we are talking about, that they avoid this tax. Well, these two things are contradictory. The fact that this tax is not levied results from interpretation and case law. If local governments could get him, they would. If the Senate Act is introduced, it will certainly be easier to collect this tax without comparison, even if there are risks. They will be the same if the government project is adopted. As regards the lay-off of infrastructure, I would point out that I believe that all those who spoke here did not ask for the abolition of the possibility of exemption from this tax, but requested that it be a temporary exemption rather than an unlimited exemption. The provision in the law proposed by the Government concerns an unlimited exemption. This is certainly wrong, because it leads to all these pathologies - to what the discussion sounded strongly. I ask you to work on both projects, to select the best of them, and for time, i.e. to do so - I will also work for this in the Senate - so that this bill that closes the tax gap can enter into force from 1 January 2022. To answer questions about losses - each year this is at least PLN 200 million loss. This loss is not only a loss in the income of local government units, it is also pathology in business activity. Moreover, this loss is increasing from year to year due to the expansion of this, I would say, creative activities of entrepreneurs, who, for example. They merge the land so they can get a bigger tax exemption. I think that's how I answered all the questions. Oh, there was a question about stopping the development of rail transport in Poland. Well, of course that's an overstatement. If this senate project comes into force... In the OSR, the impact assessment for the government project is given the losses of the local government if the government project enters into force. That's a couple of dozen or a few million. Taking symmetrically, that would be the benefit for the local government if the Senate project came into force. So there is no stopping the development of rail transport in Poland with this senate project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges, contained in print No. 1729, and the Senate's draft law on amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges, contained in print No. 919, to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a time limit for the submission of the report to be discussed at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Law for 2022 (Prints 1630 and 1708). I would very much like to ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u71	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At its 39th meeting, the Sejm examined and addressed on 14 October a draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Law for 2022 to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. Seven amendments were tabled during the discussion of this draft law. The Commission has given a positive opinion on these amendments. I recommend that the High House adopt this draft law contained in the report in print 1708, together with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u72	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice concerning this document, i.e. a draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law. As the rapporteur, Mr Andrzej Szlachta, said, the committee discussed this document extensively on 28 October. I must admit that as we compare this with the budgetary debate already held in the Sejm as part of the first reading, and this is a document complementary to the draft budget law, it was in this discussion - although it was extensive, because it lasted more than 2.5 hours - but there were no big discrepancies. It seems that these explanations which the government has provided regarding the paraments recorded in this document... The parameters are quite important, because they concern the principles of remuneration in the public sphere, among others. they concern the functioning of the Social Insurance Fund, they concern the Labour Fund. But, in fact, there was no opposition to the proposed changes, although the discussion focused on a number of important topics and almost an hour was discussed on educational salaries. Important data and details, which were then shared and the opposition, and the parliamentary majority, can be recalled here. They come down to the greatness that gives a picture of the situation, the government's concern for teaching, the government's concern for teachers. Two sizes were compared: the increase in educational resources, which amounted to PLN 12 billion in the years of the Civic Platform's government - if we do not deduct PLN 2 billion from the budget, which was still prepared by Law and Justice, by transferring power - and the increase in these educational expenditures by PLN 13 billion for the next 7 years, when we all know that the education subsidy goes after the student, and those students in the school have lost 20%, because of the number of 5.6 million students we have reached the number of 4.6 million. I would like to remind you that our government has taken on the burden of the costs of administrative reform and the liquidation of junior high schools, which involved a significant dispersion of institutions. [[He took it because he wanted it.]] Don't disturb me, Member. I know you won't agree with any thesis that won't be symmetrical to your expectations or expectations of total opposition, but just hold on a little bit. I'm sure you'll be taking the floor in a moment. On the other hand, it was also very important to see what the Minister of Education called for in the context of this discussion. She's very distinctive. The point is that, in fact, at the end of the Civic Platform's rule, the problem in the education started to occur and teachers' protests had already taken place. So I personally draw attention to the detail that this large professional group, a large industry group that is counted in hundreds of thousands of people - I'm not going to say that it's almost 1 million, but it's about 700,000. persons - is a professional group, which is probably another a bit exposed to not to say: cheated by the previous government of PO-PSL. If, at the end of the second term of these governments, there were protests, it means that the whole increase we are talking about and which the government of the Civic Platform and PSL coalition boasts so much took place in the first term, in order to win an electorate, nothing simpler. But then this electorate was less needed, because it was known that power was slipping away, so also about this industry, as one of the few previously noticed, was forgotten. Ladies and gentlemen, the interesting elements of this discussion were also related to the White-red programme. It is described exactly how funding will be provided when it comes to white and red flags competitions in Poland, which have already been written down and lacked a good way of financing for them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The budget reserves are also discussed in detail: 1.5 PLN billion for floods, PLN 3 billion for the Agricultural Guarantee Fund and PLN 323 million for water management. Ladies and gentlemen! To proceed on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I submit further amendments to this important law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u74	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u75	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Around Budget Act, according to its current name, is intended to enable the implementation of the Budgetary Act. This is essentially implemented in two main ways: either by freezing certain measures, i.e. keeping them at a certain level for a certain period, where system rules guarantee the conversion of funds e.g. according to the increase in salaries from the previous year, either by financing budgetary expenditure by means of specific special-purpose funds. The solutions in the around budget law are valid only for a given year. Unfortunately, the PiS government has been practically suspending the Public Finance Act in the Around Budget Act for several years now. Let us look at some of the detailed solutions proposed by the PiS government in the Law for 2022. Despite the assurance that the budget is well-balanced, resources have been limited, e.g. for the professional improvement of teachers, for methodical advice, as well as for prizes, at a time when schools struggle with remote teaching, hybrid teaching, when students need the support of teachers as never before. In the Act, the government suspends provisions that limit resources for the creation of reserves. This justifies greater flexibility, and in fact creates cloudy water by excluding transparency, because this transparency, when it comes to spending public funds, PiS does not like it very much. The government doesn't know exactly how much public money it's going to spend and what it's going to spend on, but it's making room for financial self-will. It is this self-will in spending public money, the taxpayer's money is a trademark of the PiS government. In this law, the government actually eliminates the so-called. free medicines for seniors, because the few that were free for them are to be financed from a common bag of NFZs, i.e. from the health contributions of taxpayers, including seniors just which seniors will no longer deduct from the tax. Let's move on, the famous Medical Research Agency. As the Minister of Health stressed at the time, it is intended to serve non-commercial medical research. However, he did not mention that it was created to finance relatives and acquaintances of the rabbit, e.g. I want my brother to finance his brother. The agency will be able to hold a billion zlotys, but beware, a billion of bonds, because what this government can do best is to indebt citizens for generations to come. Target funds. You can't invest, you can't make any investments from start to finish, so special funds that multiply like mushrooms after rain have a reduced tariff. Their dispatchers may finance them completely different investments than those to which they were appointed. Then the easiest way to cheat is by building obscure, cloudy flows of money. Money in funds, I'll remind you, is out of parliamentary control, out of public control. Since PiS rules, almost 100 new funds have been created, agencies, institutes to which PiS prints bonds. Today about PLN 350 billion is outside the control of the Sejm, outside the control of the budget. This is also the case with the Wideband Fund - will it not be managed by Minister Cieszyński? - or CepiK. We move on, the Minister of National Defence in 2022 will be able to actually do anything. Why? Because the Minister of National Defence doesn't have any budgetary rules. In addition, a very wide stream of money for national defence from bonds, i.e. debt, was guaranteed in another law. The PiS government often praises the increase in research expenditure, but does not add that it also finances it from debt. The "Initiative of Excellence' programme - research university, in 2022, will be financed entirely by bonds. Similarly, a re-privatization fund that already receives bonds for bond handling. You owe not only our children, you owe our grandchildren too. And the president, the president, can freely transfer expenses to historic buildings. The cherry on the cake is the National Institute of Liberty, whose PiS increases the spending limit so that there is even more on Bąkiewiczów, although Bąkiewicz's activity has nothing to do with patriotism or freedom. It has nothing to do with the national interests of Poles and Poles either. To conclude, Madam Marshal, High Izbo, on behalf of the Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club, I am making amendments to the government draft law on special arrangements for implementing the budget law. We want to delete an article from the draft. 14, Art. 15, Art. 34, Art. 35 and Article 35 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u76	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. Please, Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u77	High Izbo! A month ago, we were talking here in a joint debate about the whole package of budget laws, and it was reasonable, because the technical law that we are dealing with today is difficult to talk seriously about in isolation from the objectives, objectives and priorities that you have set for yourselves, and this unfortunately is not a good priority. The problem with this package can be closed in one sentence: you save the country not where it needs to be. As regards the state's revenue, the situation is not bad, which was acknowledged by the Minister of Finance rarely seen in this building a month ago. So there would be room to finally take care of the employees of the budget to take care of education to ensure that the quality of life in Poland is improved. But you're just not taking advantage of this opportunity in this package of budget laws. Economic development must finally be followed by social development in Poland. We need to invest in people who work for the Polish state, because in 5 years' time, Poland will develop, depending to a large extent on how Polish schools will work, and we can all see what is happening today, especially in larger cities. There are thousands of vacancies, teachers are running away from the job because wages are so low, you can't survive them in big cities. And you in this bill continue to limit the resources for education. It is not known who will teach Polish children computer science, mathematics, languages in the future. This is a real crisis situation and the response to this crisis should be the budget for next year, the whole package of budgetary laws. But the right is acting like she hasn't seen it. Some malicious people say it's because ministers sent their children to private schools, but it's not a system solution, because millions of Poles and Poles will send their children to public schools. If we keep spending so little money on education, we're just gonna take away a lot of chances from these kids. However, sometimes I have a sad feeling in this House that nobody is interested on the right side of the political scene. For similar reasons, we have a budget falling down in Poland, because over the years it has been very grateful to piss on officials, to call on them to tighten their belts, and today we have results: specialists who are fleeing, a growing number of vacancies and an inefficient country. What are you doing in this package to break it? Not much. The truth is that you have rejected the modest and really inexorable proposals of the OPZZ-et staff, and in what you suggest, not even on the real shield of budget workers from the rising cost of living. You put the payroll fund in such a way that the rising cost of living will simply devour it, within a few months. I talked about this a month ago and I will repeat it today: this is really not right for people whose work is done by the Polish state. Finally, the weakest. You save money at the expense of DPS, benefits, social services, anti-violence in the family. And of course, those who are the weakest will not protest, will not pay lobbyists, have no influence in the media. All the more so is morally wrong, especially now that food prices are rising, when the cost of living is rising, and for these poorest families, hard time is coming. In the media, you often talk about your government as being more pro-social than your predecessors. So I'd like to make that clear. In this package of budget laws, in these decisions social sensitivity cannot be seen, but cynicism can be seen. Finally, there are small things in the bill that we are looking at today, but it's just not tasty, because that's the only way I can determine the jumping increase in spending on so-called. National Freedom Institute. I remind you that this is where you pump millions of zlotys that go to religious fundamentalists, organizations associated with Mr Bąkiewicz, to extremely right-wing environments. It's the money you're finally funding in the practice of anti-vaccines who then paralyze the fight against the coronavirus. And now, without any reasonable justification, you're jumping up this budget, actually with respect to the original shape of the bill many times. This is what your whole package looks like, where there is no money for employees, there is no money for the budget, there is not much money for helping the weakest, but for the nationalists there is money for Mr Bąkiewicz. And somebody could say that those tens of millions on a budget scale are pennies. Maybe, probably, but unfortunately, it's a symbol of what your priorities look like today. These priorities are simply unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u78	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u79	Speaking on behalf of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, I would like to refer to a philosophy of the law on special arrangements for implementing the budget law. In fact, this law opens side paths not entirely in line with budgetary principles, and it certainly violates the transparency of public finances and budgets. There are also positive elements, which must be stated objectively. The main point is that a number of financial areas remain outside Parliament's control, which are at the direct disposal of the Prime Minister or Ministers. It can be said that they are somehow taken outside this official, appropriate budget. As far as the problems of these side budget shots are concerned, I would like to say, for example, that funds are being frozen to fund the welfare fund or that the same form of funding is repeated by introducing funding for certain activities in the field of science, innovation, research by treasury securities. You could say it's better than if this area weren't to be backed up by funds, some kind of financial collateral. But all of this must be borne in mind that it is financed by debt, and in the future it will have to be repaid in some way. The same is true when it comes to financing certain areas in the Medical Research Agency. That also raises serious doubts. We will begin a detailed analysis of the various budget headings in the future, after examining and adopting the comments, of the opinions of the individual Sejm committees, at the level of the Public Finance Committee. However, a general reflection on the assumptions presented is that we actually have such a dynamic situation that - it could be said - actually already at the stage of preparing the budget we would need to amend the proposals. The situation is extremely complex. Of course, we know how inflation is growing, how financial stability is. All this has an impact not only on the budget of 2022, but also on budgets for the coming years. Hence the lack of transparency in the finances I was talking about. I also said that a large part of this expenditure is outside Parliament's control. The increase in debt or subsequent taxes was also mentioned in the discussion of the previous point. I no longer want to refer to the problems of EU funds, which are essential for our development. Finally, I would like to address the problems of rising prices, i.e. the cost of rising inflation. In September, it was at 6%. In October, we're going to get closer to 7%, probably in the next months, probably by the end of the year, this inflation is going to increase by at least 1% every month, that's the estimate. Of course, there are also objective factors related to external conditions, to rising prices of energy raw materials, mainly fuel, gas, but there are also actions which are the result of some inconsistencies of the government. This budget should therefore be implemented, prepared at a very real level, taking into account the difficult situation that is in many sectors, such as households, rising energy prices (Ringtone) or gas, which significantly increases the production costs of fertilisers and in general increases production costs in agriculture. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u80	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The great honorable comrade Adrian Zandberg just said that the poor can't afford lobbyists. And he's right, poor people can't afford lobbyists, and there's consequences to that. Well, for example. The city of Houston in Texas spent a lot of money on social assistance. As it turned out later, 80% That money went to build skyscrapers for big companies. Because big companies have lobbyists, and poor lobbyists don't. Therefore, you have to keep all the money as far away from lobbyists as possible, which is to keep it outside the government. Because if they go to the government, the lobbyists will undoubtedly take care of the money, and they'll take care of it for their clients. You have to remember that every dollar in the budget is PLN 1.40 in human losses. The government spends money worse, just doesn't know our needs. We know our needs, we know what we need, and the government doesn't know our needs. Even if he didn't steal, which is hard, even if he wasn't careless, even if he wanted the best, he wouldn't do what we need, because he doesn't know our needs. Therefore, if the government is happy that there is more money in the budget, e.g. One billion more, that means we have 1400 million less. Poland has disappeared by 400 million, because money has gone to the government instead of being in the pocket of citizens. The second thing, very dangerous, is change. We have inflation now, and this inflation is likely to increase to about 15% in about six months. And then what's this budget gonna look like? When we approve it - or we do not adopt it - this budget will have nothing to do with what it looks like. It's important to remember that the worst thing is to change taxes. People prefer to have no plan than to have a plan from which to abandon. Unfortunately, what we see in the government's activities are constant changes and amendments. But, often even the law has not yet entered into force, and we already have amendments to it in the Seym, which are waiting for adoption. In this way, it is impossible to do business. I will say again: if people spend their money, they usually spend it wisely and intentionally, while the government usually wastes it. What he's wasting, I'm not gonna talk, because my colleagues from the other parties are very careful about showing it all. I'm talking general, not specific. And please consider that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u82	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u83	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The draft around budget bill contains both good and controversial proposals. The Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 welcomes the fact that this year it does not mention freezing wages for employees of the budget. The work done by teachers or nurses deserves a decent wage, which we will always ask for. I have a specific question for the government: What are these increases gonna be to catch up with the crazy inflation right now? In particular, there is a significant increase in funding for the training of interns doctors and for medical rescue. There will also be more uniformed services, although we believe that further increases in these expenses should be carried out under the control of the Sejm, but unfortunately these expenses are excluded from this control. We hope that you will not forget the big raises for civilian police workers, mostly women whose wages are the lowest in the public sphere and do not allow them to support their families. This is open discrimination, which should end as soon as possible. However, we do not understand why this law is anti-climate. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 41 you exclude the expenditure rule, according to which 18% with excise duty on motor fuels supported the development of rail, i.e. public transport. You are eliminating this record, which is a clear abdication of green targets, because now everything will go on the road. Traditionally, as every year, our dear President becomes more and more expensive. Moreover, when the scale of extreme poverty increases in Poland, you spend money on further renovations of the residence: the Presidential Palace and Belvedere. This year we had in the around budget bill the renovation of the government center in Łańsk, where the public money bought self-flushing, modern toilets - in a country where according to the data of the CSO 2 million citizens dream of having any toilet at home. We could be glad that civil society will get four times more if not for the fact that the National Institute of Liberty, which you are supplying generously with PLN 160 million, is strongly linked to people from Ordo Iuris and unclearly transfers money to nationalist radical groups, and with the other hand it pumps funds into - and indeed - the civic works of Fr Rydzyk. And since we are already at work, the Church Fund was to spend 140 million this year, we spent 156 million in 2021, and in the next act we will spend almost 193 million. That's 36%. More. Maybe that's what we're gonna find out about the increase in wages in the budget. What's the government gonna do about it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland 2050 will be opposed to this bill until the budget gets such increases as the Church gets. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u84	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. First, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. One minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u85	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During discussions with the voters on this bill, each of them made one conclusion, with which it is impossible to disagree. If a whole series of specific arrangements are needed to implement the budget law, which requires a statutory form, then we are faced with a poor budget which is impossible to implement under the legal conditions under which it is established. This project is a declaration by the government to unreliability of the budget and to push it through the Sejm thanks to its majority of votes with full awareness that it is impossible. Why is the government, being fully aware of the legal limitations, pushing another law through the Sejm that is impossible? Why is the government trying to adjust the legal realities backwards in order to enable the budget adopted in breach of the applicable rules to be implemented through such procedures?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u86	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft Print Act No 1630 on specific arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Act for 2022 is closely linked to the Government's draft Budget Act for 2022. The project provides for the possibility for the Minister responsible for treasury securities to be transferred to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The total value of liabilities under this title shall not exceed PLN 4 billion. Minister! What is really caused by the need to increase the capital available to the Fund? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u88	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u89	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Rapid inflation, record price increases, the crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border are things we talk about every day and which we will certainly be dealing with for a very long time. Therefore, information about planned expenditure on the renovation of the presidential residence in Jurata, in Vistula, in Clarice, in Promnik, Belvedere, the Presidential Palace, amounting to 25 million, is some kind of joke. In order for this to be low and the Prime Minister to be sorry, Prime Minister Stynka is also undergoing a 160,000-dollar metamorphosis. When are you gonna think about people with disabilities, people who need help the most? The programme is about to end, where people with disabilities can count on assistance and support from an assistant. Will there be money to continue this program? How many of these resources are there gonna be? When are you going to increase the aid for rehabilitation tournaments, for rehabilitation equipment? In the pages and forms for people with disabilities recently you can read mainly about concerns about the lack of money for treatment (the bell), for rehabilitation, for wheelchairs, prosthetics, hygiene products that cost a day. Families and carers of disabled people say they're about to run out of money for gas, rent and electricity. Finish it, Member. What are some suggestions for the environment for people with disabilities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u90	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. There isn't. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that your role in considering this point is to calm down the mood and assure the citizens that the law is to reduce the expenditure of the state budget, but your actions in this matter prove something very different. The fact is that you regularly reduce the transparency of state finances. Your spending outside the budget has taken on an unprecedented scale. Taxpayers spend more and more money on the Prime Minister's and President's Office. You didn't use the economic prosperity to save money, and as a result, you're looking for money where you can, putting more taxes on citizens. Poles are getting harder and harder to live. We've had the highest inflation in 20 years. All this with the lowest number of births since World War II and the highest number of deaths in post-war history of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When will you finally present a sound and transparent analysis and strategy for financial policy? Poles have the right to know whether state finances are safe. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[There they are, my fellow Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u92	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill seems like such a mess. One base is frozen, the other is defrosted, and it actually feels like it all has only one purpose: to hide inflation. 'Cause when it comes to things like that. for prizes for teachers, the basis is frozen at 2019 level. If we take this high inflation into account, that's all in all, the whole basis significantly reduces the funding for the teachers' prizes. But my question concerns this most difficult group, the poorest group. I'm thinking about the kids. Galloping inflation and expensive prices give us more and more signals about children who are just hungry, about families who are no longer able to cope, and what will happen from January, if there are increases in energy and gas prices, it is difficult to say. On the other hand, it must be said at (the bell) that around budget laws, which are often just as important, or even more important, as the budget law itself, somehow have to safeguard these needs. How, and is it in the plan, secure the greatest need? It's about the needs of this youngest generation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u94	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask if the most honorable companion Adrian Zandberg, who said that ministers have their children in private schools, and the poor must send them to state schools... I remember talking to a prominent representative of the Left on the radio once, and this man said, in fact, that rich people don't pay taxes, they avoid taxes, big companies avoid taxes, above all, taxes pay poor people. Well, that's good. Then there was a break, and then the second part of the discussion was about education. And he said that of course education cannot be private, it must be financed from the budget, from taxes, to which I said that it means that the poor are to pay for this education, because the rich are supposed to avoid taxes. There was a minute's silence on the radio. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we would really have to erase all the money for education from taxes - that's, as I recall, 1,300 PLN per child per month - and give it to parents. They will educate their (Bingle) children for this money much better than the public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u96	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u97	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It seems today... We do not think, certainly today the most important problem of Poles and Poles is the issue of inflation. Inflation that consumes income, which causes the prices of goods, food, services, energy products to get higher. And that threatens the economic security of citizens. I wanted to ask, Minister, why there are no rules in this around-the-budget bill that would allow us to fight the crazy cost. Because it is in this law, which contains provisions that allow budget implementation and economic policy to be pursued, that should include provisions concerning, for example, the reduction of taxation of fuels and other energy sources (the Bell), and such provisions do not exist in this law. Why doesn't the government want to help citizens, Minister? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u98	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u99	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Budget Law and the Around Budget Law are one of the most important laws. Unfortunately, we have to tell the truth: the Sejm lost control of the budget, because hundreds of billions of zlotys, some assume that it is about 350 billion zlotys, up to 400 billion zlotys, are spent through targeted funds. The government is bragging that there's a good budget situation. If so, then why doesn't the PiS government solve the problems in the so-called. budget? That's where the wages are extremely low. Second giant department, health care. Hospital debt in the days of the PiS increased by around 60%. And the third element, education and education. Thousands of vacancies. If we do not invest in education today (the bell), we will not raise teachers' salaries, it will be very difficult to talk about the economic and social growth of our country in the future. Make sure the PiS symbol isn't inflation and expensive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u100	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u101	Mrs. Marshal! In the Seym quite often as a great tragedy is raised the issue of the Game debt of $40 billion. At the moment, as far as public debt is concerned, Poland is in debt to PLN 1600 billion, or $400 billion, and no one is crying about it. There will undoubtedly be a lot of inflation next year, and there will certainly be a lot of money coming into the state budget. I assume it's more than expected. Therefore, she would be asking to reduce public debt. If we cross the budget and cross the budget, let's not give it away, for example. For the renovation of state institutions, let's just try to eliminate this debt or reduce it, because the next generation will pay it back. My question (The bell): Does the government plan to reduce public debt through a greater impact on the state budget due to inflation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u102	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u103	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Discussion of the government draft law on special arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2022 should be seen in the context of the overall economic situation of Poland, i.e. the highest in over 30 years of inflation, a crazy cost. In this sense, the creation of the budget for the new year should be based even more on taking care of public funds. Meanwhile, what are we watching? Another bond issue. Billions of bonds from which defence or research will be financed. We see the creation of further funds that will spend millions of zlotys outside Parliament's control. We also see a reduction in expenditure on education, among others. for teacher training, insufficient funding for the budgetary sphere. On the other hand, we see numerous renovations of the presidential and government residence. This is not how the budget should be for 2022. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u104	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the situation is serious and requires serious, very responsible, rational decisions. Today we see an increase in prices that affects each of us. We see inflation rising, but unfortunately we do not see wages rising, even among teachers, and it is the teachers who educate future generations. Providing them with higher, high, adequate wages is our duty as a government as a parliament. This growth should happen sooner or later. A similar situation is taking place, for example, in the case of civil servants of the police. A few days ago, I met with representatives of this social group. They showed me their pay belts and told me about their experience and responsibility. It is truly a shame that there are situations where people with such competences (the Bell) receive the lowest salary with such education. It is necessary to invest in the economy, people who work hard for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u106	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u107	The best investment in our development, in the future, is to support the area of education. We know what the situation is these days. Self-governments must contribute substantial amounts to the financing of teachers' salaries and this limits other commitments to residents. The situation will change, and for the worse, after the introduction of tax solutions which are in Polish Lada. What's your simulation? What are your calculations? How much will it take from local government budgets to finance teachers' salaries? This is one area. The second is the problem of funding science. We're talking about science, innovation, new technologies, research. The Union focuses on knowledge-based development and our research funding (the Bell) does not increase systematically on a scale that should safeguard our expectations. How were the tax papers used that were in last year's budget? If I may, I would also ask for an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u108	Thank you very much, sir. Last question, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u109	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! This budget bill is a remorse. Why am I gonna talk? That's because the debt is expensive. The debt is expensive in everything - in the budget law and outside the budget. He'll come to pay for it someday. At low interest rates it does not cost so much, but according to the assumptions of the National Bank of Poland it will become more expensive. This is the first remorse - the cost. Two. A health workers strike has taken place before the Prime Minister's office since September. You said - did the Minister of Health say - that from July next year there will be increases. It's a remorse, too, because it wasn't handled. Third remorse. You threw medicines out of the budget for the elderly and moved them to the National Health Fund, which means we'll pay ourselves with our money. No electricity compensation. The Around Budget Act should include a compensation plan for increasing electricity prices, because today, at this cost, you will have more revenue for the budget of our money. This was the right thing to do if you respect your citizens. This is a test for respect for citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u110	Thank you very much, Member. That was the last question. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Sebastian Skuza to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u111	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Around Budget Act is a special solution and is part of a universally applicable law, as it has the form of a law, that is, the source of constitutional law. It follows from the specificities of the situation in a given financial year, which may be different each year. I don't remember a time when the budget itself would be implemented without a budget bill. With regard to the investments of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, bond funds will mainly be used to support climate protection and energy-efficient solutions. Of course, along with the climate minister, we will present this answer in writing. Questions were raised about the package for people with disabilities. I would like to remind you that when I discussed here the revision of the budget law for 2021, I was talking about PLN 1 billion for people with disabilities this year. 200 million PLN will be transferred by the Government Strategic Reserve Agency, 800 million PLN by PFRON. In terms of transparency of public finances, we are governed by EU rules and a summary of the whole public finance sector, including funds that are located in the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego as so-called. General government sector. There were also questions about inflation. Monetary policy is mainly the tools of the National Bank of Poland, the central bank. This phenomenon is not only common in Poland, it does not only concern the Polish economy. We pay and it is, you can say, the price of getting out of the crisis, out of the pandemic, out of the recession. I also once said here, in this Chamber, that Greece is doing relatively well with inflation from the euro area countries today, but I think that in general this example of the country and the economy is not a good example. What tools should be introduced to combat inflation in the around budget bill? I can remind you of the '90s when liberal governments fought inflation with such an additional tax called "piercing." There was also a question about the education system. I believe that there is room in our country for both public and private education. With regard to the proposed increases in 2022, the budgetary sphere can count on an increase of 4.4%. I would also like to remind you that this year, with the possibility of using a 6-percent incentive fund next year, has been created. As regards the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the management has signed an agreement with the trade unions. The programme for the modernisation of uniformed services, including in the area of remuneration, is to continue. As for sovereign public debt, the debt management strategy assumes a decrease in this debt in relation to gross domestic product. Questions were also raised about the capitalisation of bonds. I wanted to point out that this is not a new phenomenon. In the 1990s, Treasury bonds were used to restructure the banking sector. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego can be recapitalised in the two thousand years, which is continued since 2009. As far as the science and higher education sectors are concerned, the introduction of this possibility of bond recapitalisation has been very well accepted by the university sector. I would like to point out that the measures referred to in the Around Budget Act, in the bonds for the units of the science and higher education system, is, it can be said, something additional, because the algorithm based on inflation and gross domestic product results in some minimum amount for the science and higher education sector, and the bonds do not fall into this amount, which is something more than this minimum requirement. In terms of funding research, science, spending on so-called. R &amp; D, it has been clearly reflected in recent years, up to around 1.3%. Of course, we would like these expenses to be even higher, but in recent years there has been significant progress. There was also a question about the financing of local government units. I would like to point out that, after three quarters of this year, the operating surplus, i.e. current revenues over current expenditure, in the local government sector is more than 30 billion and is record-breaking, and local government units have not yet received, i.e. this amount is not taken into account, 8 billion for compensation subsidies and 4 billion for subsidies for water and sewage infrastructure issues. Here came the question, actually saying that 2 million Poles wanted... their dream is to have a bathroom. I note that 4 billion PLN will be transferred this year to local government units where saturation in water and sewage networks is the lowest. As far as waterworks are concerned, this threshold is below 90%. and as far as sewage is concerned, this threshold is 60%. This year, then, 4 billion will be added to these local government units for these tasks. As regards medicines and their funding from the National Health Fund, I would like to point out that such an operation has already taken place and there is absolutely no elimination of any privileges here. It's just a change in organizational funding. [[But hospitals have debts, Minister.]] The increase in spending on health care next year is noticeable... [[Out of our pockets.]] ...and additionally about 7 billion have not yet been estimated, as this would be the consequence of the entry into force of solutions of the Polish Order. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Andrzej Nobletta, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u113	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are currently discussing a government bill about the budget, not discussing the state budget. In these budgetary emotions, you have often spoken outside the formula, the subject of this project. Nevertheless, I wanted to thank the members of the Public Finance Committee who worked on this project for several hours. It was mostly a substantive debate, a concern for the Polish state's budget, for expenditure, but the situation was created not by the authorities, but by external phenomena such as pandemics, pandemic effects, economic situation in Europe and the world. We are a country that lives under global policy conditions, and inflation phenomena are not just Polish. Besides, when it comes to the way inflation is calculated, there are 12 categories, 340 divisions, so not everything is calculated according to an indicator of 6,8%. or 5%. So it's worth talking substantively, because often people who listen do not know what we're talking about. [[But the Prime Minister doesn't speak substantively either.]] However, there have been, Madame, also such speeches that require a little reflection, e.g. The fact that the Sejm lost control of the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not panic. Every law, as the Minister said, is constitutional in nature and the law which the Sejm adopts is being implemented. On the other hand, from the history of the past years, we remember that when there were some sudden changes in the economic market, all governments made budget adjustments. It's a normal thing. And it is the Sejm - the state - that decides what changes must be made. Mrs Fabisiak has asked for Polish children, as always. So I would like to say that social programmes, which we have been effectively introducing for nearly 6 years, have significantly improved the situation of Polish families. These are hundreds of billions of zlotys directed to Polish families, to children. [[Not hundreds of billions.]] If we compare this with indicators from previous years, it's actually hundreds over the last few years, so, uh, you can count it exactly. [[That's not true!]] On the other hand, when it comes to subsidies, let's compare the revenue that's managed... [[To GDP?]] But you, Madam President, will keep some rules. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Someone's speaking, and you're bothering me. You have such a manner of disturbing always and everywhere. You're gonna have to keep it under control. As far as subsidy is concerned, in 2015 it amounted to PLN 40.3 billion and in this budget it amounts to over PLN 53 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, 13 billion zlotys per subsidy. At the same time, consider that the number of children in education is decreasing, which is, of course, a negative phenomenon. I will not refer to Mr Korwin-Mikke's statement because it was publicistic and partly humorous. Then I'll skip it. However, action and debate on public finances were fruitful, and I think that this project that we are going to adopt is a good project for this difficult situation, which is due to the phenomenon of a world pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u114	Thank you, sir. I would also like to remind you that you are the rapporteur of the committee. By correcting Mrs Joanna Fabisiak and then Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. After 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to explain to the rapporteur that I was not talking about the millions and billions spent, I merely presented the facts provided by the Central Statistical Office. According to these figures, poverty rates are rising, including family poverty and child poverty. In view of the above, in relation to the data of the CSO, I asked only what are the remedies, because we cannot maintain or accept this further. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u117	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, It's hard to stand if you're telling false stories. Agree that in absolute amounts the subsidy is higher, but we always refer to the gross domestic product. If we apply education subsidies to gross domestic product, it will turn out that during the Civic Platform the share of subsidies in GDP was higher. If you want to know what remorse is, ask how much more money the local governments pay today than they paid in 2015. Unfortunately, Minister, you misunderstood me, too. You are known for your very thoroughness, and I respect her, but despite everything, you are throwing medicines for the elderly out of the budget. The second time the infamous 75+ is thrown out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will pay because the National Health Fund is our money, which Poles have paid. Thank you. And the state doesn't do any favors. You have failed to comply with the Constitutional Court's judgment on the payment of debts. Thank you very much. Long hospitals have grown. There's no use in this solution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u118	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Social Assistance Act (Prints No 1672 and 1745). I would like to ask Mrs Danuta Nowick to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Social Assistance Act, print no. 1672 and 1745. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 21 October 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading. The Commission for Social Policy and Family Policy carried out its first reading and examined the draft law at its meeting on 15 November 2021. The purpose of this regulation is to extend the catalogue of conditions for exempting family members of the resident of the house from payment for his stay in that house and results from the social need to guarantee greater protection for family members of the pensioners of those institutions. The aim of the project is to eliminate the sense of injustice towards family members of persons who have grossly failed to fulfil their parental responsibilities. The Act sets out both optional and mandatory conditions in a precise manner. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the draft at its meeting on 15 November 2021, requests the High House to adopt a law in accordance with print No 1672. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u120	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Warwas, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u121	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the Social Assistance Act, print no. 1672 and 1745. High Izbo! The bill responds to social expectations and addresses the issue of paying for a stay at a social assistance home. The purpose of the proposed regulation is to extend the catalogue of mandatory conditions and optional dismissal of family members of the resident of the social assistance home from payment for his stay in this house. For changes to the extension of the directory of conditions allowing the family members of the DPS to be exempted from payment for his stay, he requested, among others. Ombudsman. He pointed out that the establishment of payment for a stay at a social assistance home was based on the provisions of the Social Assistance Act, the shape of which leaves no room for decision-making to the authority under which it could, taking into account exceptional circumstances, waive the establishment of the fee. The problem being the subject of the proposed regulation was also signalled by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child and the DPS employees themselves through the Polish Federation of Social Workers and Social Assistance. They pointed out the barren conditions that adult children must meet, the victims of past abuse by their parents, so that they were not obliged to pay for the costs of their parents' stay at the welfare home. They have also called for the institution to include cases relating to parental proceedings which are not in line with the principles of social relations, which also have a precise reference and interpretation on the basis of law. In addition, private individuals also requested that the Article be amended through petitions. 61, Art. 64 and Article 64 64a Act on Social Assistance concerning the issue of payment for the stay of a guest in the DPS. The current rules ignore the lack of family ties between the person obliged to pay the fee and the social worker. This means that there are situations in which a parent's residence fees placed in a social security home must be borne by a person who has not had a relationship with his or her parent for several decades. Threatened neglect of parental responsibilities, as well as failure to comply with maintenance obligations, will constitute new optional conditions which justify the refusal to finance the pensioner's stay in a social assistance home. In conclusion, I would like to say that the amendment of the law will have a positive impact on the social and economic situation of adult parents who have grossly neglected their parental responsibilities, thereby leading to the cessation of family ties. Persons who are children of such parents deserve the protection of the State and should be eligible for exemption regardless of their material situation. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice request the adoption of a draft law contained in the report of the Committee on Printing No 1745. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u122	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition. And I wanted to ask all the Members to wear masks on their faces. It's about those who don't have them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u123	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition club on the government bill amending the Social Assistance Act, prints no. 1672 and 1745. The purpose of the proposed regulation is to guarantee greater protection for families whose relatives are in social assistance homes by extending the catalogue of mandatory conditions and optional dismissal of families of those residents of the DPS for payment for their stay in social assistance units. According to current regulations, first of all, the resident should pay for his stay in the DPS. It is an amount of up to 70%. income. If this is not possible, the spouse, the relative of the alternate before the initial, and if there are no relatives or the funds due from them cannot be enforced, the stay shall be paid by the municipality from which the person was sent to the DPS. The exemption from payment for stays at a social assistance home is provided by Article. 64 Social Services Act. This article indicates that a person who has been in a foster family, a family home or a nursing home on the basis of a court decision to restrict parental authority to a person addressed to a DPS or a resident of the home may be exempt from payment. These changes introduced a few years ago are as fair as possible and in practice they work. However, as is apparent from the justification and from the consultation that I carried out with social workers of social assistance centres and representatives of social assistance homes, the problem arises when the parent has not been deprived of parental rights in due time. This is the case when, at the most difficult time of lack of care and the basic needs of a child, the second parent or guardian who experiences violence himself, in order to ensure the safety of children, will not lead to the end of the procedure of deprivation of parental rights, will not see to it. Thus, he will not receive a final judgment on the deprivation of parental authority. In addition to the bad news, the second parent is dead, which in practice eliminates the possibility of depriving the sole guardian of abuse. The social assistance environment is consistent with the need to clarify these issues in order to ensure that the institution of the exemption also covers cases of parental proceedings which are described as contrary to the principles of social life. The introduction into the Social Assistance Act of a clear legal framework allowing the competent authority to waive payment for a stay at a social assistance home is expected and justified. The project that we are investigating today provides for the possibility of exempting a person from the DPS residence fee for whom he has grossly neglected parental responsibilities in the past, leading to the cessation of family ties, and when it was a gross violation by the pensioner of maintenance obligations towards the child or neglecting other family responsibilities, e.g. duty to care, raise or maintain. This optional condition will justify a DPS resident's refusal to finance. In addition, the project extends the mandatory conditions. In addition to violent crimes, they were introduced by drunkenness or abandonment of a minor by a parent or guardian. Adult children have a responsibility to care for their parents. For many of us it is obvious and we do not imagine it could be different. However, this principle cannot be used and abused by people who are only formally parents, and in fact have never taken care of their children and have not been financially involved in their maintenance. You often hear about cases of adults already children who, after decades, learn that a father who was a violent person or a mother who abandoned children has remembered their existence and is required to support them for their stay in a social security facility. I think many of us know different stories, like the one described by a woman. I received a reply from the SKO on the maintenance of the contested decision to pay for the father who was in the DPS. I don't know what I should do right now. A while ago, I got a decision from OPS that I had to pay the fees I had to cancel. Meanwhile, my father died. Of course, I had no contact with my father. He wasn't interested in me at all. He didn't pay his alimony. I was in foster care, but because my mom was schizophrenic, she wasn't able to deprive him of his parental rights. SKO claims that there are no negative emotional ties with the father, and the party has a legal obligation to pay the fee. Furthermore, it is noted that the exemption procedure can only be initiated when the decision setting the amount of the fee becomes final. I have no idea what to do in this situation. These things are human dramas and rethinking the traumatic experiences of childhood. Therefore, under the new rules, adult children of people who have socially unacceptable approaches to parenting should be exempt from the charge regardless of their financial situation. The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens (Dawn) will vote in favour of the proposed amendments to the Social Assistance Act. However, we have doubts about the question of verifying the applications submitted, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u124	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u125	Dear Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! This draft law prepared by the government takes into account many signals and speeches by the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman. It is also the result of an examination of judgments of courts, decisions of the institutions in the proceedings for administrative decisions. It also takes account of the opinion already expressed when it was sent to Parliament, the Office for Sejm Analysis. The purpose of the proposed regulation is to extend the catalogue of mandatory conditions and optional dismissal of family members of the resident of the social assistance home from payment for his stay. Today's regulations, especially the article. 64a of the Social Assistance Act, indicate that the person liable to pay a social assistance home stay fee shall be exempt entirely from that fee at the request of that person, provided that he presents the final judgment of the court that the parent parent is deprived of parental authority over that person and declares that the parental authority has not been reinstated, or that there is a final judgment of the court that a criminal conviction for a deliberate offence committed against the harm of the person liable to pay the fee, its minor siblings or parent. However, these solutions did not withstand the test of time. There are situations that we often deal with in our parliamentary offices, and there are requests for intervention. However, without this legal intervention which the government has prepared, it would be difficult to meet these expectations. Therefore, the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left will support those solutions which provide, in addition to optional conditions, also mandatory. With regard to the exclusion from the obligation to pay for children, the family of parents' stay when social conditions are violated, especially as regards maintenance obligations or raising children, this is fully justified. It is also a condition which may exclude the obligation to pay a pensioner's stay fee where the person liable to pay a fee demonstrates, on the basis of these documents, a gross violation by a person addressed to the DPS or a resident of the DPS maintenance obligation, the obligation to pay a fee, the obligation to raise and maintain, the care for the intellectual development of his/her child. All these solutions seal, you can say, this issue of mutual relations. There will be fewer situations where the relevant authorities refused because of the lack of precise statutory provisions to exclude payment for a parent's stay in a social assistance home. To conclude, I would like to inform you that the club is providing support for this project, and will vote in favour of the amendment of the Social Assistance Act in print No 1672. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u126	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u127	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, I am pleased to present to you the position of the club regarding the draft law amending the Act on Social Assistance from Printing No 1672. Often in our work, previously social and now parliamentary, we face social problems, family problems. Many times, as you know, these are human dramas. I often hear from adults who, as children, were left behind by a parent, why after 30 and 40 years I should put on a person who did not remember I existed. Yes, this bill, although not perfect, will solve a number of such problems. The explanatory memorandum of the Amending Law states that the introduction of a new regulation in Article. 64 aims to counteract the sense of injustice towards children obliged to pay at the home of social assistance for a parent's stay to whom the decision to deprive parental authority has been given. In the amendment, this catalogue has been extended by two more reasons. In this regard, the Ombudsman has often spoken, in which the assessment of the adult children of parents who grossly neglected their parental responsibilities or were perpetrators of violence against the child deserves the protection of the State and should be subject to compulsory exemption from charges regardless of their material situation. The problem was also examined by the Ombudsman. In the view of the Ombudsman, the right should protect the adult children of parents in the absence of parental responsibilities or in the event that they commit crimes against minors. Such reflections, as you know, have lasted for years, also in the context of work on the law that has been examined and amended today. To date, an adult child could only be exempted from such charges if the parent was deprived of parental rights by a court order. The amendment proposes the addition of new conditions which may exclude the obligation to pay a pensioner's stay in a social assistance home, i.e. a situation where the person liable to pay the fee demonstrates, on the basis of the documents accompanying the application, a gross infringement by the person addressed to the DPS or the resident of the social assistance centre of the maintenance obligation or other family obligations towards the person liable to pay the fee. Here the question arises as to what documents are to be, because the novel clearly does not indicate it, and whether their verification by the social worker will be sufficient and reliable. In many cases, if the above conditions are recognised and the family does not wish to place a pensioner in a social security home, this obligation will rest, as we know, on the shoulders of the local government. So I have a question for the government: Will local governments be able to count on compensation in this regard? The Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives will support the solutions contained in the amendment of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u128	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to express my surprise that we had 3 minutes in discussing a very complicated matter, which is the budget, and we have 5 minutes in discussing a minor amendment to one law. It seems to be a little illogical at the level of the Sejm. Secondly, I would like to point out that this is not a discussion about social assistance, it is a discussion about state aid. It's not society that helps these people. It's the state that helps. We collect taxes under duress, and that money is then distributed. So it's state aid, not social aid. It should be a state aid house, not a welfare home. Thirdly, we fully understand that state officials would like to do the best they can. The current legal situation is bad, and after that it's a little better perhaps. On the other hand, I would like to point out kindly that there are two fundamental reservations to this law. The first is that it is, of course, imprecise and will continue to discuss whether there are really sufficient grounds or not. It would be much easier to say simply: let the court determine whether it is right to pay or not, and it would be much simpler, there would be no long bill, but we would have it They've given it to the judge who's doing it on the spot, in the commune or in the county. And that's a much better solution. The second, also very important thing: it happens very often - I know such cases - that, although formally family has bad relations, de facto has good relations, just e.g. She refused to help the child so that the child would have any subsidies, subsidies, etc., and the relationship between parents and children was the best. Now there can be various complicated situations, where people will be e.g. They agreed that they would say that they didn't keep the municipality paying for the maintenance at the DPS. Unfortunately, these things will be very common, and I would like to warn the legislators about them, who then want to do the best they can. I think we're going to vote in favour of this bill at all, because the current legal situation is also bad. On the other hand, let us not presume that this bill will solve problems. This is a bad approach to things at all, but I understand that we can't afford another approach because we have Roman law and not English law, so we have to give a lot of legal guidance, guidance to the judge to know what decision to make. This is an absolute lack of trust in judges (The Bell), but I can't help it, this is the practice in Poland. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u130	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In the first words I will immediately say that of course we will vote in favour of this law, because this is a law that restores a little elementary social justice. Of course, today we are talking about a law that is only about human drama, and it is about drama, really, which we probably don't want to settle. I do not want to repeat the argument that has already been made here, because of course we all know that this is a law on extending the catalogue of mandatory conditions or optional exemption from DPS residence fees, that is the main content of this law, and that of course this legal decision was needed and expected. I just want to get your attention. All of us, especially the Minister, that this is some kind of continuum. Each of these situations, whether it's behavior contrary to the principles of social relations, or whether it's a lack of social ties, whether it's gross neglect of parental responsibilities or even lack of maintenance - it's always some kind of continuum. After all, the lack of alimony can be temporary, it can be that alimony affects only partially, not in full amount. So every time, or very often, we're dealing not with a two-way situation, but with situations that are judged. For this reason, my call to the Minister to try, however, in some way to facilitate the situation of those who will have to carry out evaluations, and to bring this law as close as possible or maybe its related legislation, to make it as easier as possible for workers to evaluate, verify, for example. just by specifying exactly what type of documents can be taken into account, because this is a little lacking in this law. There is also a lack of transitional provisions, which I would like to draw attention to. So, as in other circumstances, there is such a thing as a catalogue of good practices, so here we can think of some catalog of interpretation that will help us evaluate any such situation. Because as I say, just as I started my speech - we here will each time have to deal with a situation of some drama, drama of a family or part of this family. This situation will be burdened by workers who will have to make decisions. In recent words, the call for measures that do not thus affect local governments to be completed by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u132	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Cases Circle regarding the proposed amendment of the Act on Social Assistance from Print No. 1672. Of course, Minister, the right direction: it eliminates some social injustice that all the previous speakers have spoken of here. If a person is an adult and has had to cope on his own in his life because his parents failed to carry out their duties, it is very fair that in such a case he will not bear the cost of living in a welfare home. Another thing is that we all bear these costs, but this is how we build a society of solidarity and justice, and it seems that there is no other way, because we should take care of a person, even if they have made mistakes in life. Of course, this case in many social services centers often spends sleep with the social workers who, when working in their environment, know families from scratch and know that they must make decisions - whether directors or managers - who are simply unfair to people who have not had contact with their parents for many years, but do not have legal evidence in the form of a judgment, and it is not their fault, because these judgments would have to be taken care of by the other party, the second parent, or by some means someone else who was caring, but this was not the case. So the bill is very fair. I just want to point out that this is another revision of the Social Services Act. And here is the general reflection that the Social Aid Act is generally very archaic. We will have a lot of situations where we will need to improve it in various elements, because the social structure, the structure of social problems and the global approach to solving family problems are changing, because a person is never alone, but exists in the family, on the basis of a very holistic approach. It is worthwhile to carry out a major reform of social assistance precisely in such a direction, in order to take advantage of the very well-collected potential of social workers, well-educated, well-prepared, because for years they have been asked to rely on a high level of individualism, i.e. so that the social worker, not the court, as my previous speaker, Mr Korwin-Mikke, was saying, only a social worker, a high-quality specialist, could draw up a plan for helping them out of the crisis. This is a really serious system change, but I think it needs to be done. And my second suggestion and request, which has been made to the Minister of Justice for several years, for which he has repeatedly committed himself, partly linked to this problem that we are dealing with, is to work on changing the institution for the incapacity of intellectually disabled persons, because this institution is still being abused. Twice I have submitted a project supported by many NGOs and I have heard twice from the Minister of Justice that the project may have had legal shortcomings, should be included in the codification commission and Law and Justice such a valid legal project will prepare. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I have an appeal to meet this demand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u134	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. First, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This statutory regulation extends the catalogue of mandatory conditions and optional dismissal of family members of the resident of the social assistance home from payment for his stay in the social assistance home. Indeed, it solves and regulates social injustice, which has so far been about this payment. But I have a question for you. The Act provides that it will enter into force 14 days after its publication. And the question is this: Is the proposed date of entry into force of the law sufficient for the possibility of preparing the addressees of the standards concerned by the proposed legislation? I'd like a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u136	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking today about a government bill amending the Social Services Act. The project extends the catalogue of mandatory conditions and optional dismissal of family members of the resident of the social assistance home from payment for his stay in this house. Minister! In view of enlargement and increased support for those in need, will the Treasury transfer more resources to local authorities to support citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u138	Thank you, sir. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u139	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! And more questions, Minister. My doubts are raised by solutions related to the entry into force of the contested rules and the inclusion of completed cases. Art. 2 provides that the regulation will apply to cases initiated and not completed before the entry into force of the Act. This introduces the legal inequality of persons whose obligations have already been regulated by the existing rules. There is a risk that the situation of those obliged to pay for a resident's stay in the DPS will remain unchanged until the amendment enters into force and they will not be able to benefit from more favourable regulations. And the question is: Will the new regulation be the basis for initiating the procedure for exempting the family from payment in cases identified in the amended legislation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u140	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is good, but it can be dead, and it's very simple. Consider one small, short example. A 17-year-old girl, alcoholic parents, a violent father, threw her out of the house when she was 17. Maybe good, maybe not good. It's not good because they didn't check her out, so when she reached her age and her parents got drunk, one went to the DPS, the other died, she had to pay her debts, because she couldn't be bailed out, there was no legal basis. And she was also asked to enter into the maintenance system of the father who was in the DPS. And now the question and the conclusion. Well, the bill is very good, but if the government doesn't get the money, it won't have anything to finance the difference that the family won't pay. If that is the case, the DPS management will not (the bell) make decisions beneficial to these people, because they will not have any money for it. Therefore, only if you convince us what measures will follow the bill will it be possible to vote for it, although it is, of course - I stress for the third time - good and needed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u142	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u143	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, My question is this. We have an old wallet, i.e. people who have budget subsidies for a place in a social security home. We have people we're talking about today who will not be subject to maintenance. That's good. The free assessment of evidence or all documents, in my opinion, is justified, but the third problem that we do not solve in a new way is the problem of increasing the pensioner's residence fee in a social assistance home in relation to the changing cost of living. And in this respect, I would like to ask: Is the government considering the possibility of paying additionally to the functioning of the (Ring) social assistance houses, and what programme is it planning to prepare? Because when it comes to parents who are in the social services home, the child benefit is starting to get very high, it's roughly one salary... Thank you very much. ...or one extra pension. So in order to keep a parent in a social security home, you need a pension from a parent plus a child's pension. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u144	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The list of conditions that allow for exemption from payment for a social worker should have been extended a long time ago. For several years, this problem has been raised by the interested parties themselves, but it has also been a subject of a number of court cases, where, unfortunately, it has been a common case law. It should be made clear, however, that the application of these amendments is merely a make-up from the government. In fact, the whole system of pay for social assistance homes requires a profound reform, which should take place after consultation with the environment. There are now around 80,000 in social services homes. persons. How does the government assume how many such requests for exemption after the amendment of the rules will be affected (The Bell) and how will the budgets of the municipalities be charged? Are there therefore compensations for local authorities in this regard? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u146	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're discussing a good bill, which doesn't mean it couldn't be any better in my opinion. I mean the proposed amendments to the article. 6 of the 2004 Act, and more specifically of the situation where the child has sometimes forgotten the fact that he has a parent because he was so indifferent or toxic that sometimes only when he is an adult himself, after decades, reminds him of the ILOS, demanding payment for this parent staying in a social assistance home. There are indications that this mechanism will be automatically interrupted. But I have a question to the Minister: Why is there no compulsory exemption in these situations if such a child presents documents (the bell) confirming a gross violation by the parent of maintenance obligations or other family obligations? That should be mandatory, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u148	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The Act provides for an extension of the catalogue of grounds for exemption from the charge to cover all intentional offences prosecuted by public prosecution, not, as is currently the case, violent offences. Did the government, when preparing this bill, have information on how many exemptions there were in relation to the charges paid, the violence crime, and now - is this an extension of all intentional offences prosecuted by the public prosecution - I consider it reasonable - also examined what group of people might be involved? The weakness of this bill is that we cannot predict the financial consequences for local governments, because at the end, however, for a citizen who lives in a given municipality, the fee will have to be paid (Dzwonek) by the municipality. In view of the above, will the various forms of support for local authorities be taken into account in the future? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u150	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mateusz Bochenek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think I have to convince anyone in this room of the importance of social services houses that provide caring, living services. They play a very important role in our municipalities, cities. At the same time, we also see how it is necessary to create more places in social assistance homes, how important cooperation between government and local government is here. Therefore, my question to the Minister concerning the question of government support for the creation of new places, new facilities, social assistance homes, as well as financial support for the maintenance of residents. As we know, these costs from year to year, and basically from month to month, are increasing and here support and close cooperation are needed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u152	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u153	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This draft law amending the Social Assistance Act to pay for a stay in a social assistance home extends this catalogue, and very well. These changes are in line with the principles of social relations. I think there is no doubt that, as a general rule, this maintenance obligation should exist, function, we should require it to be fulfilled. However, there are situations such as those related to the loss of parental ties when this payment should not be charged. And here we have some freedom to make decisions. This freedom is based on various evidence that we cannot predict today. But I have a question for the representatives of the Ministry: Exactly what criteria can be relied on? The employee who will make such a decision will have a choice - on the one hand it will be released from payment and, on the other hand, the cost will be borne by the municipality (the bell). So it seems that a more detailed definition of the criteria on the basis of which the employee will make a decision is appropriate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u154	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. There's no envoy. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important day, I know - as vice president of Opole I supervised social services houses - how important is the debate about the rules of pay for the stay of the pensioners, people who live in social assistance homes. Thank you very much to Minister Michal Wójcik for this bill, which, fortunately, is being tested in a spirit of solidarity. I believe that 460 Members will vote for it, because this is what solidarity looks like in Poland, that is what solidarity looks like, that we are talking about matters that are important for people, about the elimination of these social injustices in an absolutely professional, transparent way. Thank you very much for this bill, especially since it is on the sixth anniversary of the establishment of the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who showed how solidarity Poland, how a solidarity state should act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u156	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill is going in the right direction and it sounded here in club speeches and questions asked. It is accepted in a broad consensus. On the other hand, some problems have also been mentioned, with which probably social workers who will assess the situation will meet. My question to the Minister is this: Will there be guidelines, at the level of the regulation, in order to indicate, to clarify this situation, at least in some way, grouped into this law? That's one of my questions. And the second question is about the scale of the phenomenon. I understand that this has long been a postulate and an ombudsman, and an ombudsman, a social worker, an institution. My question is: What is the percentage, what is the scale of the phenomenon? Was it diagnosed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u158	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u159	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Such a question as a continuation of what Mrs Kozłowska asked. Whether, in the event that the case has already been brought to an end, but the person concerned will re-examine his case, whether that right will apply and we will be able to treat it as an ongoing case and, on the basis of this provision, fire that person... As Mrs Ruseck asked, on what specific evidence or any other formulas will we be able to resist social workers by releasing someone from payment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u160	Thank you, Member. The last question will be asked by Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition. No, you are giving up the question. Please answer the questions of the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers Mr Michał Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u161	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for this substantive discussion, as Janusz Kowalski said, about this very professionally important project. I'd like to thank the family ministry. Thank you very much for the cooperation of the president and the committee as a whole. Yesterday we had the opportunity to proceed on this project in consensus. I would like to thank all the parliamentarians of both the governing camp and the opposition. It is a rare thing to discuss important matters in such a consensus. These are important things that affect people, where there is a matter of great injustice in the background. Is it fair that a parent of a child who had no relationship with him for several decades, who was not interested in a parent, with whom he did not want to have any relationship, any relationship, did not even pay, did not carry out his maintenance duties, after many years when he was sent to a social worker's home, suddenly expects his child to cover the cost of his stay in such a welfare home? That is not fair, nor is that fair. And in practice, it is not easy to extract, ladies and gentlemen, from covering such costs. Of course, in the first place, the social worker evaluates the situation, there is a possible municipal appeal college, there is still a possible court, but the conditions which are contained in the current Social Assistance Act are so general that they do not allow certain issues to be settled unambiguously. We were preparing this project, and we were wondering what way to go. To me, too - I am not only a minister, but also an MEP - people who have a similar situation came to me. These people are also sent to you as parliamentarians, and I know it very well. I also spoke to the opposition Members in the clausades who said that this was a good solution. Thank you for the vote today. It was possible to accept the path that the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman of the rights of the child referred to here, i.e. to apply the social principle clause. But this is, ladies and gentlemen, a general clause, which will continue to be a problem concerning the fact that this will be a sort of judgmental situation, because there are no clear criteria when a person can actually be exempted from paying for a social worker. We have taken the solution that specific situations need to be identified. Someone, perhaps Mrs Fabisiak, said here from the speaker that this would still be a problem. I think this is a very far-reaching step, it's about waiting for this injustice to go away. I hope we eliminate her completely. In my opinion, this is the only way we could do it. Before answering the questions, I would also like to address the voices that spoke about a somewhat complicated situation in the context of social workers' activities. It's true, a social worker is the first person to investigate the situation. There's an environmental interview that's being conducted. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the 2017 letter. Polish Federation of Social Workers and Social Assistance. In this letter I have and at various legislative stages I have passed on the content of this letter. It is precisely the workers themselves who recognise the need for legislative changes so that this institution is compatible with the principles of social coexistence. Because they themselves wrote it here, in a 2-page magazine, they showed very carefully why those who are investigating this situation think that the law is imprecise. That's why we didn't try to clarify the law in this way... Here you do not agree with Mr Korwin-Mikke, who said it was some minor, insignificant change. Well, under no circumstances can I agree. It affects a lot of people and the state of parliamentarians working in offices every day you know that. It may be 1-page, but it's important, it has far-reaching consequences. The change that we have adopted relates, in fact, to the general clause, to the term'screating', the clause which is also of a judgmental nature, because one can wonder what it means: gross, but this is defined in case law. It's been defined many times. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, I gave concrete examples of rules that use this exact wording: gross. In my opinion, there will be no problem at this point in time to determine when there was a flagrant violation by a person sent to a social assistance home or his/her resident with a maintenance obligation. Why does it have to be like this? That's why, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes a non-alination sentence may not fall. Sometimes there are situations like this. Life brings different situations behind it, so sometimes a person is not interested in taking a judicial decision. Hence, not every violation of maintenance obligations... This is about a gross, extraordinary, unique, indistinguishable situation that is immediately obvious. It's dangerous - it's defined. Not alimony is one thing, but the other is family responsibilities. Yesterday I gave a concrete example, it's a recipe of the family code and care code, because it's the best way for us to do it, where it's exactly what we expect from a parent who's raising a child. This is precisely set out in one of the provisions of the Family and Care Code. The child must have proper development in terms of education, culture, sport, spirituality. You know, parents do it because it's a constitutional thing, raising a kid. And that's exactly defined in the Family and Care Code. So this catalog... If you grossly violate your family responsibilities, you may find yourself in a situation where you do not receive the cost of your stay on the part of your child. Moreover, we have extended the catalogue of situations where the person, presenting the relevant document, will not pay at all, and the court will not judge, but will have to do so and not otherwise. This is about situations where a person does not only commit a deliberate crime involving violence, but also a deliberate crime prosecuted by a public prosecution. Why? Because non-alination is not violent, and it is a typical example of a situation where it should be possible to extract from the obligation to pay the costs of a guest's stay, and this is not only about that, for example. Drinking. These are other situations of this kind. Now I'm gonna answer the questions. Mr Korwin-Mikke says that these are houses of non-social aid, but of state aid. The Member must know that there are also private social services houses. There are houses and public, and private, they run them and foundations, and churches, and associations, there are houses of all kinds. I hope that does not interfere with his freedom of view of the functioning of the state. Will there be financial support? This question has been raised in many places by your parliamentarians. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed with the joint committee the government and the local government, and this was the only comment made by this committee on this project. There will be no such support, it will be done within the limit which is intended for local government units. This has always been the case, whenever we have introduced such issues, when we have done so, it also applies to recent amendments to the Social Assistance Act, it has also been carried out within the limits. Of course, yesterday I presented some information about the condition of local governments and what will happen during the next year, 2022, as it happens, despite the pandemic, will increase the influence of local government units. I hope no one here expects me to give them more information. If that's the expectation, I'll give it to you. We have not decided to allocate additional resources to this end. This must be carried out within the limit. And the other side is that it's hard to tell exactly what the means are. How do you put it, ladies and gentlemen? You are asking me if, if there were such situations, can we go back to them, check them out, do an environmental interview again. I tell you this: How many situations can we point out? We can't do this. There's no way, no one does. That's an answer, among other things. for Mrs Szczaj, who asked if it was possible to return to those issues that had already been discussed. Yes, of course, you can update environmental intelligence at best. So how are we supposed to determine the costs of this amendment? Will there be abuse? For any provision, there may always be abuse. We are aware of that, ladies and gentlemen. We are not able to create a perfect law, we would like to, but unfortunately we do not have that power, I regret that. We in my opinion, we are very limited in this respect. You can imagine a situation where someone gets along with someone, but you know that environmental intelligence has to check all documents. Environmental interview is to conduct a very thorough documentary interview and interview with a person. The social workers I bow to, I do it in front of the Minister, they know exactly what to do in these situations, but they had to have a tool. It's mom's tool, but if there's any abuse, that kind of information gets to us, I'll be personally interested to refer the case to the D.A.'s office. If something like this happened. Is there a transitional provision? There it is, Art. 2 is a transitional provision and says that a new regulation will apply to cases which have been initiated and which have not been completed when this regulation enters into force. But no matter what, ladies and gentlemen, there will always be an opportunity to update, no matter what. It's a matter of reason. What are the conditions that the social worker will consider? They are, ladies and gentlemen, defined in the Social Assistance Act in Article. 107. 5b. It refers to the personal, family, income, property situation of a person who is determined on the basis of the documents specifically mentioned in points, and there are a number of them, ladies and gentlemen. And regardless of the documents listed in this Act, environmental intelligence is a conversation with a person. There's also what I said yesterday in the committee, for example the correspondence that was attached by the person concerned so that the social worker could learn about the relationship. Was there any connection, if someone was sending correspondence to their parent, and the parent didn't answer for years, didn't care, had no contact, didn't visit, would leave during the environmental interview, the ladies and gentlemen. So it's about different documents. Social workers shouldn't have much trouble with it, and if they do, there's always a way of appeal. As I say, it will also be examined by the court on an administrative basis. As far as the update is concerned, I already told you. That is what Mr Kozłowski asked. It will be possible to update the situation, re-examine whether such a person must continue to pay for the pensioner or not. We can't imagine... Of course, there is no retroactivity here and we must look at the future in accordance with the principles of Polish legal order. Mrs Skowrońska asked if we were changing the rules of payment. No. There are various payments for staying at the social services home depending on how the local government will determine. We're not getting into those issues at all. We're actually creating a mechanism. We do not interfere in how a local government unit determines this. This is already a matter that is beyond our reach. The question is, was there a consultation? There was a consultation primarily in the family ministry, we talked to the victims, I do not hide it, people who felt affected, treated unfairly by such laws. Mrs Płępek asked if any infringement would result in an exemption from payment. No, it has to be gross. I'm talking about this optional sphere. But I have already explained that and I say that in case law it is also quite specific. Mr Wolski asks if there will be any freedom for social workers. Absolutely. It is also a huge responsibility of the social worker that he needs to carefully analyse the situation, but he is not the last person to do such an analysis. This interview will also be checked, if any, by the local board of appeal and possibly by the administrative court. Were there any tests, how many cases could there be? There are no studies, ladies and gentlemen, there are many crimes committed involving violence, intentional crimes. There is no such study, we have tried to draw it out, they have never been conducted in this area. I think that's it, ladies and gentlemen. Are we predicting another catalog? [[♪ The bell ♪]] No, ladies and gentlemen, what we have prepared is enough in our view to change the unfair situation of people who sometimes have to pay for years so that someone can stay in a social security home and have no connection with him. I do not know if any of you are in such a situation, but if you are in such a situation, you will always read it so that you stand at the level of the task, creating regulations that are against injustice, hitting this injustice, facing the idea of justice. That is why I ask you to accept the project. I would also like to thank you for the many voices that came out of the speaker today, the positive ones and the negative ones. I hope that we will vote on this regulation in the nearest vote and conclude the issue of injustice in terms of covering the costs of such people's stay in the DPS. Thank you very much. Your marshal, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u162	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023 (prints No 1727 and 1748). I would like to ask Mr Dariusz Olszewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u163	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting of 15 November this year. Joint Committees: Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism and Local Government and Regional Policy adopted a report on the Government's print project No.1727, i.e. on the draft law on support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023. The aim of the project is to provide the right legal basis to create the conditions for the relevant local government units for the timely implementation of the projects and the proper organisation of the European Games planned for 2023, which are to take place in the Malopolska and Silesian voivodships. After a substantive discussion with representatives of local governments, the above mentioned voivodships and representatives of the President of the city of Krakow the committees completed the first reading of the project and decided to join it immediately. During the detailed examination of the project, the committees introduced four amendments to it, including: improve the mode of transfer of funds for investments carried out in connection with the organisation of the games and change the proposed composition of the supervisory board of the special purpose company set up to carry out the projects related to these games. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It should also be noted that during the deliberations of two committees, many Members - not only from these committees - took part in the discussion and I can say that also in the suggestion. I'd like to thank you very much for that. I am aware that these are primarily the inhabitants of Krakow or the Malopolska and Silesian voivodships, but their involvement was visible in the work of two committees. For this, I would very much like to thank these Members. The Commissions in the report request the adoption of the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u164	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Marek Matuszewski, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I took part in the speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the governmental draft law supporting the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023, print No 1727. The European Games will be a great promotion for Polish sport. It is a flagship sports event, played every 4 years with 50 European countries. The 3rd European Games will be held in Poland in 2023. The best athletes of the Old Continent will compete in 23 disciplines. Poland will certainly meet this challenge - we have a lot of experience in organizing large sports events. The games will have huge support from the Polish government, will be a great opportunity to show our capabilities, and will be a great promotion of Poland. The bill concerns enabling the Małopolskie voivodship, the Silesian voivodship and the city of Kraków to carry out their projects on time and create conditions for the proper organisation of the games and fulfilling the obligations arising from the Host City Contract agreement. At its joint meeting of 15 November this year. The Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy carried out their first reading and discussed the above draft law. In the course of its examination, amendments were tabled which were supported by the government. I kindly inform the High House that the above. the draft law does not raise objections and will ensure that the Malopolska voivodship, Silesian voivodship and the city of Krakow are able to carry out projects related to the organisation of the 3rd European Summer Games in 2023. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice recommend that it be adopted, in accordance with the printing report No 1748. At the same time, I make four amendments to make the project even better. Thank you. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr, can you see these amendments?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u166	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 30 months have passed since the organisation of the European Games in Małopolska. And what happened during that period? Nothing. I am not surprised today that there is not one Member in the Chamber, not one Member from the Małopolska PiS, because what you have offered us in this specialty is not worth supporting. And I'll remind you how the last few months have been going. There was no shortage of assurances: a billion for Kraków's investments. There have been binding decisions, and now it comes to count down the time to start their implementation. The state budget will bear the costs of organising the Cracow Games. The bill will be until the end of April, until the end of June, by the end of September - all this will be assured mainly by Minister Sasin, who is a government attorney and a great absentee today. But remember, Sasin hasn't done anything in the last six years, and this is the biggest threat to these games. The bill you have presented is not worth supporting if you do not take our amendments into account, because there is simply nothing in it. PLN 160 million per licence fee and for fees for European sports federations. Nothing else. Where are the sports investments? Where are the infrastructure investments? Where are the costs associated with the organisation of the European Games in 2023 estimated at PLN 400 million? Who's gonna pay for this? After all, no host city agreement, no contract will be signed unless there is a guarantee to finance these games. Who will take responsibility for all the costs? All hope is that the current Minister Rabenda knows little about this project and maybe he made a mistake yesterday, saying that 160 and the end, and no more gold. The rest you want, pay, and it was the flagship project of PiS in 2019. PiS politicians sat in one box with Lukashenka when they took over the organisation of these games during the II European Games in 2019 in Minsk. We're making three amendments. Not much. The main concern is the financing of the costs of organising the Games in 2023 in the amount of PLN 390 million. It is up to her to take into account whether we support this law or not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u168	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm a bit from a Krakow perspective, because I'm also a Member from Krakow. Of course, the idea of organising the European Games sounds beautiful. It's weird why we don't want them, why there's doubts at all. But the devil is in the details. The first issue is the sport and promotional dimension of this event. The promotional dimension is not as big as it might seem. Previously only Azerbaijan and Belarus were organizers of this event. The sports dimension will probably be a bit larger, but Kraków was the only one trying to get this party. Why? Because often the costs of organising such an event exceed the benefits of such an event. Let's remember the winter games in Krakow. 2014, referendum, 70% Cracow was against this event, which had a much bigger and sporty, and a promotional dimension. Moreover, on 1 September the City Council of Krakow adopted a resolution on the recommendation to withdraw from the games if there are no financial guarantees. It is hard to be surprised, because for the past two years you have ensured that these finances and these guarantees will be, but so far, nothing concrete has been presented and there are no guarantees in this law either. The registration of PLN 160 million per organization is the only means for sports unions. And where's the money for transportation, for safety, for health care, for accommodation, for cleanliness at this party? It is estimated that this could be 300 million PLN, but with galloping inflation it will probably be 400 million PLN by now. Of course, the Act does not provide for these measures. In addition, the investment annexes. You promised that there would be a Balick route, an extension of the street. Okulicki said there would be a hive. Bunny. The city council also requested the Hutnik stadiums, the Perpetual - annex not available. There is only an annex when it comes to sports investments, but without the amounts entered, it is not really known what is included in this. Moreover, Minister Bortniczuk promised a special programme dedicated to the Games, which should be in this law. No, of course not. The local government asked for facilitation in the process of investment related to the Games, the accelerated path (the bell) of the investment. No record, of course. Finally, remember that Krakow has to sign the contract as a host city, so because for the city there is nothing in this bill that the local government was asking for, do not be surprised when he is not in it at the end. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm here on behalf of my constituents and voters. I am here as a Cracow resident and I am speaking on behalf of those who have already said once in 2014: not to the games, when 70% those taking part in the referendum opposed this costly event. But now the city, voivodship and government have insisted on carrying out expensive and unnecessary games, when in Krakow there are still really no needed things such as kindergartens, nursery schools or even sidewalks. The government and local governments want to spend millions. How much? We do not know, because within 30 months, which has elapsed since the date of the application application application, the budget of the event has not been presented. No calculations were provided as to how much the local authorities would have to pay for the organisation of the European Games. What do we have from the Olympics? I would very much like to calculate that, but I don't know exactly, because there's still no list of investments other than sports. This list is the biggest secret hidden, I don't know where, in which ministry. If we want to improve the quality of life, then I have news: this is very different than organizing a party that has served the eastern satrapoms, the dictator of Azerbaijan and the dictator of Belarus, to which no other European country has come forward and which is likely to end its life in Krakow, because there are no candidates for subsequent editions. I also wanted to ask you how these foggy promises - in what mode exactly? - investment is supposed to improve the quality of life, since it is said e.g. about the construction of the Balick Route, which, as transport specialists and environmentalists alarm, is a scaled object from the 1970s, which is unconventional to contemporary thinking about how transport in cities should be organized and which will destroy valuable natural areas. We don't need games. We need clean air, we need green areas, we need a reasonable transport policy, we need urban development, not this party that really doesn't do us any good. Due to your own and unhappily ambitions, you want to organize an unnecessary event, which costs and nuisances will be borne by the inhabitants and inhabitants of Krakow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u172	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Maciej Gdula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are increasingly in the logic of the state of emergency in this term of office. This is because of external circumstances. It's justified when we're dealing with a pandemic. But we must not forget that in such real or created situations, reprehensible things happen. During the pandemic, there were very large abuses. There's still no explanation for the groceries of ventilators, masks, tests. These are the real things that have happened precisely because we act in a state of emergency, you have to rape, spend money quickly, implement projects quickly. For this reason, this project that you have now presented on the European Games seems questionable to us. In many places he introduces this logic of the state of emergency, when we understand it widely, i.e. simplifies e.g. procedures related to spatial planning, simplifying or suspending the public procurement mechanism, restricts the provisions of restructuring law. In these circumstances, when we are dealing with such a weak preparation of this event, when decisions, contracts are not signed, decisions are dragged, everything is to be settled within a dozen months, in our opinion it is an explosive mixture and it will lead to faulty decisions, can lead to corruption. That is why we have a deep conviction that this law should not be supported. We will report an amendment related to better control of the spending of these funds, because it somehow, we hope, will reduce the negative aspects of this law if it comes to its adoption at all, if it ever comes to these games, because for now everything seems that these games are not going to take place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u174	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. And please, Mr Ireneusz Raś, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Polish Coalition, I wanted to present my position on the report of the Joint Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023, the printing of the report is 1748 and the printing of the Government's submission is 1727. High Seym! Minister! Yeah, there's a lot of words in here. I've been looking at this project for years. I support it, and my environment, which I represent politically, supports the very idea of preparing the 3rd European Games in Krakow. Why? What are not the representatives of other parliamentary clubs who criticize this project? Today is the time for a big fuss. Always the Olympic Charter, big sporting events talked about values. These European Games, which are indeed a new project, will be organised for the third time, are based on the values of the Olympic Charter, which must be recalled especially in times of confusion. I think that this time of the Cracow Games - I hope these games will come to effect - will be a good time to talk about these values. Secondly, this will be the first games in the European Union. I know that the European Olympic Committee is trying to make it a party under the patronage of Brussels. That would also be a meaningful signal to the fact that this event is growing and is more important. From these games in Krakow, the category of athletes who will participate in them will change completely, from the second to the first category, because, as it was translated yesterday, they will also be qualified for the Olympic Games in Paris. So here are the athletes who will want to fight in these disciplines for this pass to the games. It's the title of a real show of what this party is. Of course, I think that after the pandemic, the renewal of Poland's promotion based on a large event that will gather athletes from different parts of Europe can be well used. But will it? I do not know, because here it is necessary to criticize the time of submission of a specialty, which should have been debated in this Parliament at least a year ago - at least. Today, under the pressure of time, we need to improve what you put in committee yesterday for the amendments that I am proposing without getting into the details. I would also ask the Minister to talk about these cabinet arrangements with local governments concerning the financing and attachments that are to be made when it comes to the sport and infrastructure investments that you are implementing. On the other hand, I would like to make five amendments on behalf of the club. First amendment to the Article. 6 concerns the Council of Ministers, which is to establish by regulation a list of projects, taking into account this pace, which is... The point is that the time-cezure should be added until 31 December 2021, which is the end of the year. The second amendment concerns Parliament's scrutiny, as in the case of Euro 2012. The aim is for the competent minister to prepare a report once a year for Parliament. It would be submitted by 30 March each year. A similar report would be submitted to the Council of Ministers twice a year - by 31 January and 31 July. Those are the records transferred exactly... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal, one more minute. Okay? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, One minute... I'll make this brief. In agreement with local governments, we have prepared three amendments on procedural and financial issues. The point is that there is no provision that the Minister responsible for physical culture in 2021 and 2023 may grant financial support to the company and entities indicated in the programme. We're changing the word, maybe it'll say. Two further amendments concern that in the case of co-financing or financing of projects carried out by local government units in preparation for the Games, no limit on the amount of the grant referred to in Article shall be applied. 128 (2) of the Public Finance Act. Finish your work, sir. It's an 80% limit. We want to put up with him. We also want to shorten the procurement procedure so that it can be carried out in a comfortable manner despite the government's delay. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u176	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u177	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Games and bread. The practice of organising public games and distributions was aimed at mitigating social tensions and gaining the popularity needed in political activities and distracting the public from the actions of politicians. Due to the mass population's participation, the Games have become not only an effective tool of propaganda but also an expression of imperial absolutism. They served a preventive policy to prevent riots and dissatisfaction. What you're doing is a famous sportswashing, which is doing good publicity for the state, the mother party and you, its members. So far, this is what Azerbaijan and Belarus have done to themselves. Poland is going to do this. Congratulations on the marketing plan. Of course, it's not just money thrown into the mud, but it's probably burned out just because you're getting something out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u178	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The European Games are not very sporting. Perhaps it will be different in the future, but it will not be, as the deputy prime minister Jacek Sasin announced, the biggest sports event organized in Poland in 2023. So let us not trumpet, Mr Matuszewski, in fanfares, let us not touch the propaganda department on this matter, although perhaps someone would like to beat coins or print commemorative bills on this occasion. It is amazing that it is only today that we are starting the procession on the bill, but it is almost 30 months since Kraków became the organizer of the games. Did he stay? That's the question. The rulers are talking about a big party, and organizationally everything is in its infancy. In order for the crocs to charm us in the spring, their bulbs must be planted in due course. It should be the same with the organisation of this event. The plan should have been implemented for months, and it is not. We still do not have a signed agreement with the Association of European Olympic Committees. By the end of October Kraków was to receive government guarantees. He didn't. Krakow is a big brand. He didn't go to the Olympics, which hardly anyone knows. Krakow was asked for this organization. Krakow rightly doesn't want to spend a single extra dollar. The residents do not agree to this. 160 million PLN - this amount is mentioned in the Act - it is not money providing the organization. It's worth all of us realizing that. This is the amount to be paid to the Association of European Olympic Committees, and the organisation of the Games requires over PLN 300 million. There's no guarantee for that. Kraków clearly identified a list of investments that should be financed from the state budget. About the Balicka route or the knot on the street. Okulicki perfectly governs knowledge. Krakow has been ignored for many years when it comes to granting grants. He rightly demands government assurances that he will receive certain funds for the necessary, necessary investments. I am not a Member from Krakow, but these games are still a great unknown. Dear Ruler! Do not waste your time wondering who and by whom should be called to sit in a special purpose company and a supervisory board. If you don't know how to get to this big party, I'm inviting you to the Upper Lazies on Saturday for a charity football tournament. Young players will play for the seriously ill Dorothy Dąbrowska. There will be an opportunity to talk to volunteers from Poland 2050, and to invite Dorothy to the Krakow Games. But who am I talking to? Deputy Prime Minister Sasin isn't here. The new Minister of Sport Kamila Bortniczuk is not with us today either. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u180	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u181	Two things. First of all, why the next specialty about the next games? It's already slowly becoming a routine that for every major event we need a new law. Why? This is a quote from the justification: The bill is designed to create the conditions for the proper organisation of the games. So you admit that the horrible law you've been producing here for years doesn't provide the conditions for the proper organisation of the games. It is therefore important to ask yourself why it does not provide this. Why our law does not provide conditions for e.g. the right organisation of games, championships, the World Urban Forum, the construction of fences at the border or the Saski Palace? Why didn't August II need a specialty and Matthew I needed one? Maybe this is the moment for such reflection that you're probably doing it wrong. Maybe that's the signal nature sends to you discreetly, the nature tells you to stop making further regulations, since you need a specialty to complete every major project so that you can repeal or bypass these regulations. Maybe that means you're producing legal buffets that you don't want to follow, but at the same time you expect citizens to do it until the last piece of paper, even in matters that are more important than any Igelit jumping or playing badminton, because apartments or shops are more important than entertainment. Secondly, why do you think you're even going for some games, some more sasinalia? What right is the money being forced out of some people who have earned it fairly, spent on entertainment that only some are interested in? If they're willing to watch other people play badminton or bounce the ball in the sand, great, let them finance this entertainment from start to finish with their own money. On the other hand, if it's deficit, then apparently most people aren't interested enough to pay for it. People shouldn't be asked in the polls if they want a field, but they should be told to pay for it, otherwise they feel that it doesn't cost them anything. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's only fair when everyone finances their fun and their entertainment. Wallet voting is more fair than polling. Of course, the bread and game tactics have been working for a long time, but at least the emperors didn't need a specialty for every game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u182	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stanisław Bukovowiec, the Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 30 May 2019 the Council of Ministers adopted a resolution on the organisation of the 3rd European Games Kraków 2023. The resolution declared support for the application of the candidate city of Krakow and the Małopolska voivodship as the host of the event. The European Games are an opportunity to promote Poland, but above all the promotion of Małopolska, Silesia and Krakow. According to the announcements of the organizers in various sports sports will take part in 4 thousand. 50-country fighters. However, the government's involvement in this initiative is worrying. We had to wait 30 months for the current project, while only 1.5 years remained for the games. I have a question for Minister Sasin. Why is it so late to prepare this event? After all, in order for the competition to take place in the right standard, investments are needed, not only investments in sports infrastructure, but also concerning other tasks such as roads, parking lots, transport rolling stock, accommodation facilities. The necessary funds for these investments are sought by the presidents and mayors of Lesser Poland's cities, especially Kraków and Tarnów. Unfortunately, the amount declared by the government is insufficient to properly prepare the infrastructure of these cities to welcome athletes from all over Europe well and dignifiedly. It must be made clear: without additional resources for local governments, it is not possible to conduct the European Games and the organisation of the event without participation, for example. the city of Krakow is unfounded. In the current difficult economic situation, local governments cannot afford further expenditure, and therefore the State's financial guarantees are necessary. We call on the government to increase the grant to the local authorities of Krakow, Tarnow, Krynica and Zakopane by PLN 300 million so that the European Games can be realised. We support the idea of the games, but with financial security in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u184	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Agnieszka, go after the Polish cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Vice Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Circle of Poselski Polish Cases vis-à-vis the design of a specialty containing regulations on the potential organisation of European Games. I say, potentially, because it is not said that these games will take place. They will not be held and will not meet any goals if the city of Kraków, my city, does not receive funds. This was clearly declared by the City Council of Krakow, and the President clearly states it. To the city of Krakow itself, the promotion for several hundred million, which it would itself spend, is not necessary. The city of Krakow is a brand in itself and is a famous brand. I think these games, let's not be deluded, won't attract the attention of the whole world, because this isn't a big-ranking sports event, it's a crawling party, it's a starter party, so if anyone's going to do a promotion, I assume it's our country. Because that was the idea given almost 3 years ago, that it will be a big event that will ensure the promotion of Poland. So it is the government that should give the funds for this, because it will be the promotion of Poland, as the assumptions show. But in 2023, when the elections come together, it was not just a promotion of politicians who would very much like to hang medals in the light of the spotlight. Ladies and gentlemen! Krakow has doubts - residents, council, city, as well as Members from Krakow who expressed them here - as to whether they really need these games. It seems that at a time when the city needs an economic impulse - just like every city in Poland, every government after the pandemic, but also due to the introduction of the New Deal needs an economic impulse - there will be only expenses. As it turns out, the 160 million planned in this act is only a contribution to European sports organisations, it is not any money for investment. It takes money to invest in road infrastructure, for accommodation, for all the facilities related to the reception of athletes. After all, representatives of disciplines very popular for these games will not be willing to add money, while less popular disciplines will simply have to be maintained. Without funding, it won't be a promotion. I want to highlight one thing. If this fails and if the government fails to do so and Krakow refuses to organize the games, the disaster will be visible all over the world. It is worth wondering whether we really should go to an event of this type, whether it will give us any prestige and whether it will bring a bad opinion all over the world. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u186	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 30 months ago Kraków was asked to organize this sporting event. Today, here, in this hall, there should be a celebration of the Polish sports organization, a feast of Poland and a third festival of Krakow. But let's start over. Do we see anybody from the Ministry of Sports? Do we see the Minister of Sport? No, because he probably has other responsibilities. Do we see the Prime Minister? We do not see the Prime Minister, because why in such a case, in which we can spend PLN 23 million in the pocket for world sports relationships? And whether or not the party's going on, we're just not interested anymore. I would like to ask - and ask for a written reply - whether the Polish government concluded an agreement with the city of Krakow, in which it determined what infrastructure investments will be carried out in Krakow and what Poland will look like when it receives (the bell) guests in Krakow. And one more sentence. I'm not from Krakow. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u188	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the draft Host City Contract agreement, as part of the costs incurred for the right to organise the 3rd European Games and for granting commercial rights, the special purpose company will provide a cash benefit of up to PLN 160 million. Financial support in 2021 from the State budget for the licence fee will amount to PLN 103 million. There is no minister, so I'll ask for a written reply. [[Voice from the room: There's the minister.]] Is it? [[Voice from the O.R.: He wasn't at any meeting.]] [[So he didn't attend any meetings.]] Minister! In that case, the current Minister, please respond in writing to the questions. What appropriations will be allocated in the case of financial support for sport infrastructure? What programmes of individual resorts will the organisers of the games be able to use? Thank you. Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u190	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The first two editions of the European Games were organised by dictators from Azerbaijan and Belarus. For the organization of the 3rd edition of the Games no country has come forward except Poland. Both Ilham Aliyev and Alexander Lukashenka used the sport to legitimize their authoritarian governments. The games were mainly kidnapped by organizers and participants who had a good and expensive time. One of the intercessors of this expensive event is Minister Sasin known for being able to spend 70 million PLN on elections that never took place. I fear that in this case too, giant taxpayers' money will be wasted. It is also worth remembering that in the case of international sporting events, the way of crossing borders is facilitated. Therefore, my question: Will visa-free movement with Belarus be introduced in connection with the games? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u192	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you in human terms how this could have happened. Theoretically cool project, theoretically cool party, maybe not outstanding, but still. It's been 30 months, 18 months, and you're still in the woods. Krakow has been reporting his terms from the beginning, and I don't think they're excessive. The Balick route, the Abbot's knot, the reconstruction of Okulicki and Buszczek. [[Trams.]] Maximum PLN 1 billion. If the organization costs 500 million zlotys, it's probably not an excessive demand. There's a bill, there's no investment. There are no facilitations in the bill when it comes to proceding. No organizational costs, no quotas in the Sports Investment Regulations - I also ask for them. So I ask you, do you want to organize this, but you haven't been able to make a deal for two and a half years? Or maybe you don't really want to do it? Maybe you actually chose Minister Sasin to go from start to finish. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u194	Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, In sports, politics doesn't always have to come first. Just because the government failed to sleep for 30 months does not mean that the city of Kraków, Małopolskie Voivodeship, Silesian Voivodeship, Tarnów, Krynica-Zdrój, Zakopane and Chorzów do not expect to participate in this event. After all, during the 3rd European Olympic Games there will be 11 Olympics and 6 European Championships. They will also be - as the representative of the Silesian Voivodeship informed yesterday at the committee meeting - team championships in athletics in Chorzów. Talking about being low-ranking isn't right. I wanted to ask the Minister if Krakow already has a whole vision of sports facilities outside this twelve, which is shown in the Council of Ministers regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u196	Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Olszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u197	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For starters, I will say something to my colleague on the committee, Mr Zimoch. We cannot compare the European Games and charities. I don't want to bid on who made more of them, but I invite you to every game of the Polish Rugby Association, as soon as next Saturday at the stadium of Polonia Poland will play with Switzerland. You will also find that the organisation of events is at the highest level. But going to the bill on support for preparations for the 3rd European Games, I would like to ask for information - although here my previous speaker has already talked about it in part - about the number of disciplines that will be played during the 3rd European Games. How many of these disciplines, Minister, will be the elimination of the Paris 2024 summer games at the same time? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u198	Thank you, sir. Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u199	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for you. Because the European Games will be an excellent promotion of the region of Małopolskie, Śląskie, and above all the city of Krakow, but also an opportunity to show the efficiency of the country... It is good that there is a proposed list of legal solutions - whether the method of financing, whether the principles of the creation and operation of the special purpose vehicle, or the terms of the contract. As we know, the maximum spending limit from the state budget is PLN 103 million. I therefore have two questions for the Minister. What will be the scope of the Minister responsible for monitoring expenditure? And if the limit for a given year is exceeded, will the correction mechanism consist in reducing further financing for the projects for the following year? Thank you very much. [[They won't even smell that money in Kraków.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u200	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a courtesy to the Civic Platform, to full-time malcontents and spoilers. If you don't want to help, at least don't bother. [[Great.]] European Games are an important event for Poland. The fact that today you are attacking Minister Sasin from this side, you are criticizing the solutions of the Polish government... [[Incredibly brilliant.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Calm down, please. Although you're always against it. You are against defending the Polish border, you are against the Saski Palace, you are against every Polish party. [[Voice from the room: 3 years.]] [[Bravo, Janusz!]] Today the Civic Platform is the biggest threat to the Polish image. Unless it was the LGBT Games, then you'd agree. Don't disturb me. [[Voice from the hall: And you and Lukashenka...]] [[You're great. Genius.]] [[Those were questions.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u202	Please, Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! All I hear is that Małopolska is Kraków. Kraków is a beautiful city, but as a resident of Małopolska living in Nowy Sącz and in the south of this beautiful voivodship in Krynica regions I will say: it is more than just Krakow. This is Krynica, this is Tarnów, this is Nowy Sącz. Most Małopolans, especially from my territory, want the European Games in 2023, so please do not speak for the inhabitants if there are no statistics and you have no idea what the will of the inhabitants of Małopolska is. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, let us note that these events are organised by European federations, sport federations of all European Union countries, of all Europe, and not by some dictators. So please learn a little, my fellow Members, and do not insult events at European level. Also, ladies and gentlemen, if we wanted to blow this up, it would be enough to order you because you can't organize anything... [[Nothing's come up yet.]] ...and that's how you broke the winter games, and we're gonna do it. And that's the difference between you and me. The question, Minister, is whether all the sports that will be carried out can count on additional promotion during this event, after this event (the bell) and whether it will affect the development of these disciplines. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u205	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the idea of the European Games is a great idea. Of course, sport, competition, Olympic card - I was a professional athlete myself, I know that these are important messages. The European Games, on the other hand, must be mentioned, but these are not the major, most important world games, which are most popular. Let me just remind you that there will be no leading discipline in the European Games, including the most important in the field of team games. Your rhetoric is that it is a great promotion - but I would rather refrain from it, looking after what has been happening in Azerbaijan and Belarus, that it is such a wonderful promotion of the region or the city. The question - because of course the entire discourse breaks down a little bit about finance - who will pay for all this, especially for the organizational costs of this big event? Let me remind you, about $4,000. athletes, the costs are estimated at about PLN 300 million (The Bell), i.e. transport, accommodation, catering, medical care, safety at this difficult time of COVID. Who's gonna pay for this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u206	Thank you, sir. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u207	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! One would like to say: what government, such parties. I remind you of Euro 2012 - a wonderful event and it was actually a beautiful promotion of the country, and right now, if you are talking about efficiency of action, this is a series of failures, ladies and gentlemen. 30 months hasn't done anything, and that's a big problem. I think that Minister, as a Member from Wielkopolska, but I think that here, above all, Małopolska expects a clear declaration or money, additional money for the organization will be found because yesterday during the work in the committee we heard from you that there will be no additional money for the organisation. We are talking here about nearly PLN 400 million. Now is the time to stand up and make it clear. And if the PiS Members say that this is an opportunity for a great promotion of Poland... In such company, with Mr Łukaszenka next door, given especially the situation which is at the moment (the bell) on the Polish border - I am not sure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: What do you want from this Belarus?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u208	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask because we are discussing the organisation of the 3rd European Games in 2023, how it is that the government decides that such games will take place in a given city, in a given voivodship - I ask for a written reply - and what precedes this decision. Because from the moment the government decided that such games would take place in Poland, it has been 2.5 years, 30 months, and we still feel that the government is not in fact completely agreed with local governments - whether urban or voivodeship - in terms of organisation and division of tasks. The 160 million PLN you wish to allocate to this purpose will in fact cover the licence fee and fees paid to the European sports federations. The event will cost over PLN 400 million. We know that local governments have not declared support in this respect, recognising that expenditure is more urgent. Therefore, I have a question: Is it your idea to show that the government wanted to (the bell), but again the local government was unable to do something? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Question: When is the deadline for signing the Host City Contract? There have been a great deal of these terms given by you, and we still do not know the answer. Who in the government is involved in organising and preparing the European Games? On the one hand, the Act is prepared by the Ministry of State Assets, but on the other hand, the Ministry of Physical Culture and Sport is designated as a payer. I ask: Where is the Minister of Sport? Where are his declarations? I ask: Where is Minister Jacek Osuch, who is from Małopolska and who is the representative of the government for the Sports infrastructure? I would like to know what his opinion is and what resources, because it depends on him, will be devoted to specific investments. These answers just don't exist. There was no one at the sports and self-government committee yesterday. The involvement of Members of the PiS also ended last year. This year you have nothing to say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because we all know very well that this case is late, and in this bill you don't give a dollar to organize games and investments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u213	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think it is obvious that few people in Poland even know what the European Games are. Here, one of the Members of the Law and Justice Department claimed that everyone was waiting and enjoying the games. Mr. Speaker! Really, it is enough to contact voters and you will understand that most voters, most Poles, do not even know that such games are. I am no longer talking about the fact that someone would know that they are organized in Poland. This is, of course, also the result of the failure of the Government of Law and Justice, which is de facto doing nothing about it. That is why I think it is simply a key question about financial issues, Minister, which I will repeat: Will there be support and what funds will be devoted to the organisation of these games? Without central resources, it will certainly not be possible to do so. What is the government of greatness when it comes to organization, I think it has already been said here. And one more question. A special purpose vehicle is to be set up. [[It's already called.]] I would very much ask (the bell) for information as to whether the members of the supervisory board will be remunerated and, if so, at what level. Thank you very much. [[She was called in April.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u214	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u215	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are investigating a very important bill on support for the organisation of the 3rd European Games in Małopolska. It is a very important project not only for Małopolska, but also for many cities where competitions will take place. I would like to congratulate the Marshal of the Lesser Poland Voivodeship, Mr Witold Kozłowski, for the valuable initiative of organising such games. I believe that these games will be held efficiently, not as announced by the activists of the Winter Platforms of the Olympic Games, for which the Małopolskie Voivodeship managed by the Civic Platform spent 20 million PLN, and the games did not take place. The people of Małopolska, my Tarnow, Nowy Sącz, Krynica, Zakopane are waiting for this party. Perhaps Kraków does not need such promotion, although it seems to me (the bell) that there is no place on the map that does not require promotion. But these towns I mentioned are waiting for these games to be organized and we believe that they will be done thanks to the support of the Polish government, which will spend enough money on this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u216	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u217	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am a great supporter of organizing various sports events in our country, because sport can combine, sport can be over political and party divisions, but above all sport today is an extremely beautiful promotion of regions, cities and individual countries. I'm thinking about one thing. Ladies and gentlemen, one and a half years left for the European Games. You made your decision two and a half years ago. [[Nothing.]] What have you been doing so far? [[Sasin was working.]] Tonight you're introducing a special to make it. Anyone who has organised an important European or global event knows that today should be a great promotion of this event in Europe and in the world, although these are the European Games. I'm all for the games. The contestant from my club Katarzyna Krawczyk once won the title of deputy minister. This year (The Bell) won another silver medal at the World Championship. This will be the elimination of the Olympic Games in Paris and this is also a great opportunity for us. But, Minister, you can't do this if you don't secure the funds... Thank you very much, sir. ... Because local governments can't afford it today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u218	Please, Mr Ireneusz Raś, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u219	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Firstly, I would like to ask that these amendments, which I have tabled five, be considered not politically, but substantively, because they are also deeply consulted with the local government and will serve better to carry out these tasks, which must be carried out by the special purpose company in a short time. On the other hand, I wanted to ask you, Minister, and call on you to come out and say what specific goals Poland can achieve. It is about what goals you have set with the regional government of Małopolska and the regional government of Śląska, but above all with the city of Kraków. What do you want to achieve, profits from this party? Because here's the jumping after this party... ♪ I'd be like this ♪ He did, Minister, but I'm gonna wake you up, and I want you to actually be the ambassador of this party here tonight because I don't see it yet. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! How long does it take to make a bill? If we consider this project, it turns out it's two and a half years. If we looked at it this way, only two projects would be allowed to be created for the entire term of office. Ladies and gentlemen! 2.5 years this child will learn to walk, eat and operate the smartphone in a satisfactory way, and you have not been able to create a good bill at that time, not to mention that it was only created 30 months after the decision. If the Law and Justice politicians were talking about this being a very important project, a very important event, why didn't politicians and people responsible in the Ministry of Sports approach this event? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u222	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Matuszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I thought that in this room everyone was for sport, for organizing this big event in Poland, but unfortunately there is this great criticism from the Civic Platform, which I think is against the organisation of this event, this big sporting event in Poland. [[What have you been doing for three years, Mr. Chairman?]] Yesterday, at the meeting of the Joint Commission: Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism and Local Government and Regional Policy, I heard from the mouth of the hosts, local government representatives, from the mouth of Krakow representatives that they are happy. I can say that the preparations, the comprehensive information submitted by the Ministry of State Assets led by Prime Minister Jacek Sasin, all deserve great thanks, because I know perfectly well... [[Applause]] [[Great!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Yes, the opposition would not like to show the world the successes of Poland (The Bell), organizational successes. Finally, Minister, how was cooperation with local governments, the hosts of the European Games? Thank you very much. [[He didn't do anything, and you praise him.]] [[Give it up for Sasin again.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u224	Thank you, sir. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u225	Thank you, Marshal. I can't get through this, but I'm gonna try. [[Try it, sir.]] Listen up, guys. I will say to give the right things a word: the Polish government takes on the costs that Poland must bear in order to prepare the European Games - Jacek Sasin, the News Guest, July 19th. I wanted to say, given the number of deputy ministers, ministers, that 160 million is 1 million with a piece per head. I would like to get a list of ministers who have already paid their contribution, their drop, because since the government is taking on itself, it means that the government is taking on itself, not the Poles, not our budget, let's not discuss here that this tax party will be made of yours. That's my first question. Two. Since there will be a special purpose company that will do this, and the anti-Sitva Act will not be in operation yet, because you have secured it and made it only since the new term, I wanted to ask what will be the ratio of people who will have a party card and names similar to the names of PiS politicians, what will the attitude of these people to people who know about sport and the organisation of mass events in this company. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u226	Thank you very much. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I invite Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I've been hailed. I thought sports people had a sense of humor and distance, as well as maintained appropriate proportions. And beauty. Mr. Speaker! I offered to visit the Upper Laziskas to see how a small tournament was organized, as you said, charity, to see that this is not a matter to be dealt with in one day. Mr Matuszewski! I asked for no propaganda tubes. There's no new saxophone. I would like to ask him if he even knows what disciplines will be organised in the framework of the European Games. Similarly, does your Tarnów Member know whether these games will be held in Tarnów at all? Even in this case, you're polarizing a political scene, even in a sports case. This is supposed to be a discussion. Mr Matuszewski! You do not realize that there are 400 million Krakows missing from organizing these games. The Lord accepts only propaganda and only what is most important to you rulers. [[He doesn't read anything.]] One question, Minister: When is the deadline for signing the agreement with Krakow? Yesterday, Krakow's representatives said that this final date is January 15th. Are you confirming this, or will you be quicker to sign the contract? Are these games really going to be held in Krakow? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u228	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets of Minister Charles Rabenda to speak. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u229	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! May I begin by reminding you that we are talking about a law on support for the organisation of the games, not about the organisation of the games. [[It's all clear.]] The organizers of this event are the local governments of Krakow and the Lesser Poland Voivodeship. [[Say that again and again to make it permanent.]] The point is, you're complaining against this bill. There were questions about the cooperation between local governments and the government on this matter. The bill we are presenting today is developed in cooperation with local governments and at their request. The 3rd European Games will be Poland's first multidisciplinary sport event held in the European Union, because this is something that has not yet been in the Union. It is right here that someone pointed out that they were outside the European area, so we are dealing with something completely new. In its resolution, the Polish Government decided to support this event and this support will be implemented. The delegation of Poland to the organisation of the games is a nobility and development opportunity for the region, but also for the whole of Poland. We are talking about a developmental opportunity in the form of infrastructure expansion. Here is a note to the Members who were at the committee meeting yesterday: you know what these are because we talked about them. This will be an opportunity for local authorities in the post-COVID situation to restore tourism development. We're in fact post-COVID, we're not done with the epidemic yet, but the economy is back on track. All the stimuli that are going to direct us to the right course of development are important. The proposed law is intended to create the conditions for the proper organisation of the games and the fulfilment of the obligations under the host city contract. It is therefore necessary to develop legal solutions to ensure the effective operation of organisers, i.e. local governments. I think those were the most important questions. You are directing questions that are not to the government side, because the organizers are local governments. Determination of the conditions for the implementation of projects in the field of construction, reconstruction or renovation of stadiums and other construction sites in the territory of the Republic of Poland necessary for carrying out the games and designated entities which will be able to carry them out. Defining the financing or financing of certain costs for the organisation of the games and the preparation and implementation of the projects. Defining the rules for the award and execution of public contracts to the objects carrying out the activities related to the organisation of the Games. Defining the rules for the creation and operation of the special purpose vehicle and the terms of the agreement to entrust the company with the task of preparing the games. Defining rules in administrative proceedings for the implementation of projects. That's what this bill is about, and it's not about organizing a party, because the government is not organizing this party, it's about the government, and the government is supporting this party, this organization. As I mentioned at the beginning, this law was created in cooperation with local governments, at their request. There are records they've been trying to get this party to happen. I particularly appeal to the members of the committee. Yesterday, representatives of local governments - for which I thank them - for their presence, but also for their cooperation - explained to you what has been done so far on the preparation of the games. Saying that local governments haven't done anything in this period is insulting local governments. [[Nobody said that.]] Yesterday you heard this at a committee meeting from representatives of local governments. [[You didn't...]] [[The government, the government of PiS.]] I know that politics can be done on everything, but let's not do it on sport, on something that serves citizens, all citizens, because these objects that will be renovated, built on the occasion of the Olympic Games, will serve the inhabitants of Małopolska, but will also serve the promotion of sport, and in today's world sport is important, given the various problems with civilization diseases, etc. They asked about discipline. There will be 19 disciplines at this party, plus four show disciplines. Will the organisation of these games affect the development of these disciplines? Of course I do. It's basic stuff. The infrastructure, which will be built, rebuilt, will clearly serve the development of these disciplines. The athletes who practice these disciplines that will be in the games will have a place to practice and face their friends. Like I said, sport is something that we should all have in common. I know that political struggle can be brought to any topic, but we are talking about organizing an event that will only benefit, not only Małopolska, not only Krakow, but also Poland as a whole. So I call on you to focus on your work or not to be disturbed. [[But you're not doing anything.]] Yesterday at the committee meeting, we witnessed some real scandalous behavior. When your questions were corrected by representatives of local governments, you decided to break the quorum at this committee meeting. But what does that say? That means you guys don't want this party. You want her to fail. As I mentioned earlier, the organizer is not the Polish government, only the local government. [[But don't yell at us.]] [[Self-government... you just don't understand.]] You harm the local government of Krakow, you harm the local government of Małopolska with such behaviour not all members of the opposition. But what would the breakup of yesterday's meeting lead to? To extend the procedure over this bill? What for? [[The voice from the room: Only Members of the PiS could break it off.]] What was that for? Don't do sports politics. That's what I'm calling for. If you don't want to help, don't bother. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And you guys get to work.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u230	Thank you very much. I'm closing... [[Mr Marshal, I will, however, use the law as rapporteur...]] There you go. Rapporteur, please come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u231	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I cannot fail to react if I hear that it was the Members of the PiS who wanted to break the committee meeting yesterday or that the Members of the PiS were not enough. I would like to say that the majority of the Members who attended the committee meeting yesterday... [[But not all of them.]] Mr Marshal, I know that Mrs Skowronska knows everything and always likes to disturb, but if she could not disturb, I would be very grateful. It is important to be clear: if yesterday, as the Minister said, there were indeed an end to the committee meeting, the bill would enter into force even later, there would be an even greater delay. Today, these amendments, which have been tabled by the clubs that I have in my hand, will be discussed at the committee meeting, which, of course, I cordially invite you to attend, at 3 p.m. 18. Let us also be honest: we must all want the support of the European Games to be implemented as soon as possible. All clubs should contribute equally to this, work together to make it done as quickly as possible and to make it the best possible regulation. I hope that these amendments, which I have not yet read, are also seeking to do so - the amendments of all clubs, because practically all clubs have reported these amendments. However, please do not say such things that it was the Members of the Law and Justice who did the revolt yesterday, because it was not these Members. It was the Members of the Democratic Left Alliance and the Civic Platform who began to leave, and the quorum was at risk. We've dealt with it, and we've been through the first reading, and today is the second one. Welcome to the committee's meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u232	Thank you very much. Members of the Left, sir, not the Democratic Left Alliance. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I can't hear you. As you say, standing in the back, it's a problem hearing your voice. [[Whatever it sounds like, the important thing is that we work for...]] Great. Thank you for your brilliant attention. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Public Health Act and some other laws (prints no. 1631 and 1741). I ask Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko to submit a report to the committee. And thank you very much to the ministers for coming. I say goodbye to one and greet the other. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u233	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Public Health Act and some other laws in print no. 1631. At its 40th meeting on 29 October, the Sejm sent the above draft to the Health Committee for consideration. The Health Commission yesterday examined the above draft law on amending the Public Health Act and some other laws. The aim of this project is to set up a National Anti-Addictment Centre to ensure that public health activities are concentrated towards prevention and resolution of addiction problems in a single organisational unit as a national budgetary unit under the responsibility of the Health Minister. The Centre will be created on the basis of the combined two institutions, which at the moment carried out similar tasks, but within different ranges, i.e. The National Office for Drugs Prevention and the National Agency for Alcohol Troubleshooting. The Commission adopted 10 amendments in the course of its work, including: on the addition to the Public Health Council of a representative of the National Physiotherapist Board. So far, representatives of the other medical professions have worked in the Public Health Council, but there has been a shortage of physiotherapists. In this law we also introduce the possibility of cooperation of physiotherapists in the Council for Public Health. The new tax relief rules have also been brought into line with those of the Young Income Tax Act. In the course of the work, the amendment to supplement the provisions of part of the joint project with specialisation in the field of psychotherapy of addictions was also taken into account. At the moment, these provisions will be harmonised and more precise. Other amendments were made during the work, which were rejected by the committee, but were submitted as minority requests. These amendments concerned, among others, changes in the membership of the Anti-Addictment Board. The bill provides for the creation of such a council. In the bill we have entered institutions that can delegate to work in the Council on anti-drugs. On the other hand, some Members have tabled an amendment aimed at removing representatives from this project from the various ministries, including representatives from different organisations. These proposals have not been accepted and will be presented as minority proposals. An amendment was also presented to enable the Vice-President to invite addictive specialists and to appoint working groups. This competence has been assigned to the Chairman of the Council. I would like to point out that the Chairman of the Board is a member of the Ministry of Health's management and that the Vice-President is a member of the management of another Ministry. We have therefore considered that this amendment is not of major importance because both representatives represent the government, so there should not be any differences here and this provision, which is contained in the draft law, is also sufficient. Automatism was also proposed in obtaining a diploma of a specialist in psychotherapy addictions by people with certificates of a specialist in psychotherapy addictions. This amendment did not find recognition of the committee because such a provision would be contrary to the provisions of the Law on Specializations, which can be implemented in health care. There was precisely a normalized way, or path, to gain specialization in areas of health care. In view of the above, the committee, after considering the draft law presented at its meeting on 15 November, asks the Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. In accordance with the rules of procedure, the committee shall submit 10 minority applications at the request of the applicants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u234	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Katarzyna Jajka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u235	Dear Marshal, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position towards the government's draft law amending the Public Health Act and certain other laws, print Nos 1631 and 1741. The proposed law amends mainly the Public Health Act of 11 September 2015. The proposed amendments aim to set up a National Anti-Addictment Centre through the merger of the National Office for Drug Prevention and the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems. The proposed changes aim to focus public health tasks on prevention and resolution of problems related to different types of addictions in a single organisational unit as a national budgetary unit under the authority of the Minister responsible for Health. Focusing on the single decision-making entity that will be the centre will bring together issues of various addictions - functional, chemical, substance-related, illegal substances - at different stages of action to prevent addictions. Currently operating entities operate separately with regard to alcohol problems and the prevention of drug addiction without other addictions which remain outside the rules of the general law. Currently, each of these entities performs its statutory tasks and tasks of the National Health Programme related to separate types of addictions, although in many cases their combination would be justified and beneficial, as both entities carry out tasks of similar scope. The tasks of these actors relate jointly to prevention, treatment of addictions, public education and support for local self-government units in carrying out their statutory tasks concerning the prevention and resolution of alcohol problems as well as the prevention of drug addiction. A factor that differentiates the scope of the tasks of both actors is not the problem areas or forms of social impact, but merely the division into substances whose use causes damage and social problems. A centre dealing in a comprehensive way with addiction issues will enable state prevention to address addictions in a coordinated, coherent manner, which will contribute to the achievement of the planned objectives more effectively than ever before. The proposed changes will increase efficiency, reduce administrative burden, improve the current organisational solution and make better use of State budget resources and, above all, improve the efficiency of the activities and tasks carried out. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the draft law and recommends continuing legislative work on this project. Thank you very much. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in the second reading would like to make two amendments that will improve this project. Thank you very much. [[It's not a project.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u236	Thank you very much. Come, Mr Rajmund Miller, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I looked at you because the name just seemed familiar. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the KO-PO club in relation to the government draft law amending the Public Health Act and some other laws, prints no. 1631 and 1741. The draft law introduces a merger between the National Office for the Prevention of Drug Addiction and the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems. As a result, the National Anti-Dependencies Centre will be set up. The aim of the Centre is to focus public health tasks on prevention and resolution of addiction problems in a single organisational unit as a national budgetary unit set up by the Minister responsible for Health. In place of the Council for the Prevention of Drug Addiction, a Council for the Prevention of Addiction will be set up. The Council will be composed of representatives of the bodies and bodies currently represented in the Council for the Prevention of Drug Addiction. Changes in the establishment of voivodship and municipal programmes for prevention of addictions are also envisaged. The project has an impact on the National Agency for the Prevention of Alcohol Problems and the National Office for Drug Prevention, populations of addicts and co-dependents, local government units and NGOs. Although the very idea of combining these institutions seems justified, the detailed provisions of the Act raise serious objections. First of all, it is about the way and composition of the National Anti-Dependencies Centre. This is not the creation of a substantive centre, but the creation of another political body, which the representatives of the Ministry did not hide, speaking of this purpose during the committee meeting, which surprised us very much. Such a political way of setting up a national centre raises serious doubts as to the effectiveness of the objectives pursued. Therefore, the opposition, together with representatives of the social side, has tabled amendments to the law. In place of representatives of ministries who have least in common with the policy on addiction issues, it is proposed to introduce a representative of the Minister responsible for Education and Science, addictive specialists, local government and the representative of the Ombudsman. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been rejected, even though we have already indicated, for example. on the negative effects of the creation of a similar body, i.e. the so-called. The Steering Committee of the National Health Programme, for the ongoing coordination and resolution of problems related to the National Health Programme. There, too, representatives were appointed on similar principles, or political bodies. Please read the NIK report, which is very negative for the functioning of this body. We fear that the action of the one who is called today will be similar. The four meetings of the Committee were attended by representatives of only five ministries appointed at the rank of Secretary or Under-Secretary of State, and the staff of the ministries who participated on their behalf did not always have the authority to make binding decisions or to speak. Do we have cause for concern? Absolutely. The provisions of the draft amending act on sobriety education and combating alcoholism introduce a drastic reduction, by about 1000-1200, of the number of persons authorised to conduct addiction therapy, specialists who have so far engaged in this activity, treatment of addicts and co-dependents. I wanted to tell you that there are 290 thousand in Poland. addicts. In terms of co-dependents, it's 870,000. persons requiring such treatment. Such a solution will destroy the achievements so far. Also our amendment, which we have tabled, which was not political and substantive, has, for unknown reasons, been rejected, ladies and gentlemen. There we have even more reservations about what the Minister said. Those who have a state exam are forced to re-graduate so that they have a degree of specialisation. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform Club, I make 10 amendments to this law. Our support depends on whether these amendments, the most substantive ones, are (the bell) accepted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u238	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We started a second debate in plenary on the bill. Yesterday, the Health Commission took care of her for three hours. I have a question for Mrs Ratchurek, and maybe he will listen too, because I see him leaving. Because, of course, the bill in its essence is... A fundamental change, i.e. that from the National Office for the Prevention of Drug Addiction and PARPA, the State Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, we will make the whole, seems attractive, all the more attractive, the more so that to the national centre that we assume, we create as a budgetary unit this law, will be added and gambling, and behavioral addiction. This will probably allow better use of resources, resources, better organisation, but reservations as a Left, like a colleague on the Platform, are fundamental. Taking advantage of the fact that Mrs Szczurek-Żelazko gave a fair account of what was going on at the committee meeting yesterday, I would like to remind you that after a five-minute break during the committee meeting, which extended itself, on which these topics related to who can provide medical services, what is the mode of obtaining specialization, certificate or title of specialist, and the consultation of this... There are so many entries in this project even internally unclear, not to mention that they are incompatible with other laws. After this five-minute break, which extended, as proposed by President Latos, we agreed with the Minister that, after a committee meeting, perhaps at night, in any case until today, he would present his position to us. Will these messy records of specialists, while also rehabilitating addictions, remain, or will there be new solutions? Somehow we don't hear them being changed, I'm looking at the Minister. There's a lot of glitch. I mentioned a law on prevention of functional addiction, that is, behavioral addiction. These are descriptive compulsive behaviours associated with the use of some substance which involves feeling forced to perform certain activities and repeating them despite the negative sense for themselves and the environment, but in this law there should be a definition of behavioral dependence. Because the law also treats behavioral disorders strangely in terms of funding. Will it be financed or not? There's a lot of confusion about that kind of thing. That's the manner of the PiS government. Even in this law, this centralization of management, the fact that everything is in the hands of the Minister of Health, is quite disgusting. And with stubbornness you do not allow this national council created by the Prime Minister to co-opt someone else, e.g. ombudsman or ombudsman. This can't be right. There isn't, for example. rules for the regulation of cooperation with courts. There's a lot of stuff out there either messy or bad. Time is running out, sir. Thank you. My colleague will continue. [[Mr Józef Ratchrzek-Żelazko: There is an amendment tabled.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask, on behalf of our club, the Left Club, what is the actual distribution of funding for combating addiction. What measures are consumed by the field specialised bodies dealing with these issues from the practical point of view and, finally, what measures seem to be presently and what will the total budget of all central units, including the newly created entities be? I would kindly ask for an answer in writing on this matter. At the same time, I would like to amend on behalf of my club the proposal to amend the Public Health Act and some other laws, together with the justification. From the examination of these amendments, we are determining our vote on the adoption of the whole draft of this law. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u241	Thank you very much. [[You've got a beautiful fit.]] Mr Jan Szopiński presented this position. Now Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u242	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Originally, it seemed that the basic objective of the Act was to combine the Polish Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems with the National Office for Drugs Prevention and create one new institution: the National Centre for Drugs Prevention. However, the longer we proceed with this bill, the more we see the shortcomings and side circumstances that accompany this process. And yes, theoretically, the connection of WW. Whereas individuals are to be able to conduct a coherent and coordinated State policy on anti-drugs, after a thorough analysis of the changes proposed by the government, it is difficult to claim otherwise than many experts and the Office for Sejm Analysis which, in its substantive opinion, states that the proposed amendments have a very limited scope with regard to the basic objective of this law. It is worth noting that even changes that do not concern the main scope of the bill, which are theoretically ordering or simplifying certain provisions, have caused a critical discussion e.g. In a psychotherapist environment. The government bill sets a number of objectives, especially in the field of sobriety education and anti-alcoholism. Unfortunately, there is a lack of tools and clear mechanisms to achieve these objectives. We all know that the Act is not a strategy, but here it is evident that the objectives of defining the mechanisms for achieving the results of the new institution are lacking. I am thinking, above all, of the synergy of several resorts, which have the greatest impact on the fight against addiction. Because if the law is already interfering with the actions of local authorities, their strategy to fight addiction, it could, or should, start by identifying the necessary and mandatory actions of the various ministries and the best-defined departments of administration. So that it's not that I'm just criticizing - I think the behavioral addiction thing can be a plus. This is not even a new challenge... Especially with regard to local government at voivodeship level, areas where regional social policy centres have been dealing with this challenge for years, there has been a lack of identification of actions to effectively combat this extremely burdensome addiction affecting really very young people, but also adults. With regard to the inclusion of physiotherapists in the Council, this is exactly what we have been able to agree to. It is a pity that the indications of the opposition concerning the inclusion of representatives of the Ombudsman and the ombudsman in the Council have not been taken into account. That's what's missing. I believe that this type of legislation, with which many people, professionals in this field, have really very high hopes, should be more carefully prepared, should define new tools, mechanisms, new ways of solving problems. It is about legislation that gives new quality to issues that translate into a very big problem for a particular part of society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Maximowicz, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u244	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! We're discussing, it would seem, one of the least controversial government projects. The aim is to create a single budgetary unit under the responsibility of the Health Minister in place of separate bodies responsible for alcohol, drugs and to extend its competence to other possible environmental impacts, so-called. Behavioral addiction. It deserves attention, and it deserves to be allowed to do this kind of work. Undoubtedly, there are indications that this is a good idea not only for austerity reasons, but also for coordination and increasing the profile of addiction problems in general. Of course, life will show whether it really was a good idea, because individual organisms have their own characteristics, they also have many years of experience, and there are certainly big differences here. However, if this is to raise the profile of issues that are simply a huge social problem, we all know that, then this should be supported. But, as this type of organizational action is supported, it is also worth listening to the voices of the opposition Members, who clearly want it to work smoothly so that what is a social problem is also in the presence of representatives dealing with the functioning of society or the Ombudsman, the ombudsman of patients. That is why we believe that the amendments of the opposition Members are worthy of support and can only enrich this project, whose validity we see. This is the position of our circle, which will generally support these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u245	Thank you very much, sir. 11 Members came to the question. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the duration of the question for one minute. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the first reading of this project, I asked about the validity of the establishment of the National Anti-Dependencies Centre in a situation where there is currently a twin unit in the country: the National Anti-drug Office. I also asked about the purpose of central institutions in the area of combating addiction, which in practice have no contact with addicts, and their activities include. the commissioning of campaigns to advertising agencies and the drawing up of reports justifying their existence. Dear Minister, I still expect an answer as regards my doubts, and I am addicting myself to the vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u247	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government bill amending the Public Health Act and some other laws concerns, among others. matters relating to family relations and the affairs of minors. Minister, please answer why the rules for cooperation with ordinary courts in juvenile and family matters are not clarified and whether these amendments will possibly be introduced in this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u249	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the State of Law and Justice, as we all know, transparency, transparency and justice are avoided at all costs. These are concepts, I hope, known to the Members and Members on my right side, but completely inconsistent with their policies, and probably in some cases and character. Why am I talking about this? Because transparency is important on every level. It is not important for the concept itself whether it is a matter of state importance or an improvement of the everyday life of Poles and Poles. That's why I'd like to ask you a question. What is the explanation that the director of the centre appointed in this law cannot be set up in an open, fair competition? Do you have to have your faithful cameras everywhere that serve not the good of the state but only your political interests? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u251	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u252	The new center will deal with addictions. You know, this is a big, painful problem, including the social problem, the problem of addicts and their families, their children. I would like to ask why the Act does not include the comments of the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, since the new Centre will become a data administrator. How will they be stored, who will have access to them, how will they be processed? And yet there will be so-called data there. sensitive, which can lead to e.g. to stigmatize children and more. These provisions on the protection of such confidential data do not exist, even as regards how data will be made available, for example, for statistical surveys of public statistics (the bell), as well as on a case-by-case basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u254	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to ask you about financing the tasks of the new agency. Well, it would seem that the key issue is to increase this funding, but it is not merely activities, I would say, administrative and technical, which in fact will not bring too many benefits beyond, perhaps, the liquidation of part of administrative posts. I would like to ask you why, for what reasons, there are no additional sources of resources, additional funding for the implementation of tasks by the new agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u255	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is said that the mixing of tea is not sweeter, and it is true. It will not be better to mix this pot of addiction with new advice and a new agency. However, there is a great need - and I looked with hope at the title of this law - for new programs, programmes for children concerning Internet addiction. We do not find any substantive indications that the new agency will also solve new problems. That's very bad. We also find no indication that there will be more money for these new programs. Then what's all this for? Let's not mess it up where it's already involved. The PARPA has been working for years and has been working effectively. As experts say, this bill will bring not development, but rather regression. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The government bill, which we are discussing, on 29 October this year, did not provide for a change in the Act on personal income tax, on corporate persons. In the course of the work as usual, an amendment to the Tax Act, which concerns the method of calculating the health contribution, was introduced in the state of emergency system. I would therefore like to ask: Who has failed that this issue has not been settled in the applicable law, namely the Personal and Corporate Income Tax Act of 29 October 2021? Secondly, I would like to ask for a detailed explanation of the article. 5 effects of this amendment (The Bell) on how the health contribution is calculated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u259	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u260	I continue with Mr Tomaszewski's speech, Mr Marshal. The legislators indicated that the PiS amendments went beyond the scope of the PIT and CIT tax submission, because we will be brief. So this is the custom. We're against it because if you're making a bill, do it right. Secondly, we have shown that we have attention to this, as well as to the social side, as regards the establishment of the National Anti-Dependencies Centre, in relation to the corresponding national health programme. This was pointed out by the Supreme Audit Chamber. Unfortunately, the State did not agree with this and rejected the comments submitted by the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. I think the Minister did not respond enough to this at the committee meeting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] First of all, the answer to the cardinal question is: How will the merger of the two agencies achieve a better effect on the fight against addiction? Because, unfortunately, you didn't tell us that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The fight against addiction concerns not only large cities, but also small rural municipalities, in which basically there is a municipal committee for solving alcohol problems, while these municipalities are completely deprived of action to combat other addictions, especially drugs. In recent years, this phenomenon has been quite strong in itself. Therefore, I have a question: How does this combination - I think that close-up - fight against all addictions in smaller municipalities will help to stop this very adverse phenomenon? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u263	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a fundamental question about finance, because we have talked a lot about the new quality that the new institution is going to give after the merger of the two previous ones, but very little is said about what is extremely important in the operation of these mechanisms, i.e. additional funding. The justification and the discussion that we have been discussing shows that there will actually be savings resulting from the merger of these two institutions. I don't think that's what people expect them to do. The second issue is the question of the protection of personal data. This is an extremely important issue that the representative of the Office for Personal Data Protection requested in his comments. I'd like to ask for an additional explanation of this issue here at the Parliamentary Speaker's House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u265	Thank you very much. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u266	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! At the present time, we are dealing with an increased phenomenon of combined addiction, co-dependence. Therefore, these measures to prevent these phenomena are extremely important. These two institutions, which have worked so far, have carried out some activities in parallel, having their programmes, their methods of prevention. I would also like to stress that there were two programmes at the municipal level under the law: prevention of alcohol addiction and prevention of drug addiction. The same was true at the level of the voivodship. Therefore, the combination of these institutions and the introduction of new regulations make these activities concentrated, will multifaceted but coordinated by one institution. This is extremely important. But I also have a question for the Minister. Is it true that the funds to finance prevention of alcohol addiction or co-dependence (the Bell) are largely so-called. cork, which affects the local government, as well as the local government in the case of wholesale alcohol sales? [[Of course you do.]] [[The voice from the hall: But you asked me how did you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u267	Thank you very much. I invite the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health of Mr Maciej Miłkowski to speak. Will your committee rapporteur want to speak again? Member, I'm here. Would you like to speak again? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u268	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for your views and your questions. First of all, Mr Shopiński's question: Why a merger and why a formal one? Because there was a question, we are still preparing an answer that will be sent to the Member. Everyone agreed that this is actually a technical issue, but there is a very important element here, i.e. the organisation of work and tasks that are related to addictions in one institution. And what you have paid very much attention to: the problem is not only addictions that have so far been dealt with by two offices under the Ministry of Health. It's about alcoholism and drug addiction. There are also other addictions with which we have more and more problems. This institution will also have to deal with them. It will be very clear who is responsible for specific tasks, because this single institution will deal with all addictions. There was a question about the funds to be allocated. Why are we talking about savings? Of course, savings are listed in the OSR for this... If the same tasks are performed by different employees, then after combining these tasks you will get some savings. However, you must know that these are relatively small institutions. Each of them employs about 20 people. In total, it is approx. 40 people. According to the records of this project, all people who are currently employed will continue to work. In accordance with the provisions of the Article. 23 The Labour Code, which concerns the acquisition, these people will work in a new institution. So that there will be no personal and cost changes. Of course, as with any institution, the exact same pay schemes are not always the same; they are not always the same levels. Mutual adjustment within the budget of these two institutions will certainly have to take place. This is a budget facility under the Minister of Health, which means it will be financed by the Minister of Health. This is, of course, in line with the budget law and with expenditure on the health sector. It is a law that increases expenditure on the health sector to 7% in 2027. Most of the tasks carried out in relation to addiction are financed by the National Health Fund. The National Health Fund finances the treatment of addictions according to the basket of guaranteed benefits, which is defined in the basket of psychiatric and addictive benefits. There are these tasks and those guaranteed products that carry out individual centres. From the National Health Fund, a great deal of funding is devoted to prevention and various other projects under the National Health Programme used by these institutions. Of course, this increase is not just about treatment. We also anticipate an increase in funding for municipal centres that will receive additional funds under the Act on the Promotion of Healthy Behaviour. In addition, we plan that this year about 800 million PLN will additionally affect the entities, municipalities. These are the resources for the problem-related tasks that depend on alcohol. These funds will be used. I will refer to Mr Adamczyk's question. Why isn't it specific what cooperation with the courts is supposed to be like? Why is this law not specifically defined? Currently, work on the bill is an advanced stage. It's about the Juvenile Law. This law will clarify in detail the tasks of cooperation with juvenile courts. That's where everything's gonna be exactly defined. As far as the Centre Director is concerned, it is actually said that he is called by the Minister. Today, we believe that those who carry out tasks have a high level of competence and are doing them well. It is about the tasks that are currently being carried out by these two offices. According to the regulations, the Director of the State Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems becomes Deputy Director. So that the first squad is ready and it is very good. The question has been repeatedly asked why the comments of the Personal Data Protection Office have not been taken into account. A public consultation report is available on this issue. All reports in this respect have been detailed. The Office will not collect and does not collect any personal data of people who are addicted to alcohol, drugs or other substances. If he already has that information, it's encrypted. Their decoding is not possible at the level of the office, therefore it is not personal data, and the personal data of employees or employees is, of course, just as any office has the right to process. As I said, these funds for specific tasks are already presented under the National Health Fund and the National Health Fund and the National Health Fund and together with the health insurance contribution will be allocated these funds. We see that it is appropriate to continue to increase financial resources in this area because we have problems with further addictions. Moreover, more funds have recently been transferred. Another piloting, so far for children who are addicted to digital devices, piloting to verify treatment methods. We plan that after the pilot phase This benefit will go into guaranteed benefits, because we see, as I said, problems with other addictions, especially digital ones, in this population of our children. That's what we're gonna have to focus on. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski asked how the situation would improve for the municipalities. I told you there was an increase in resources associated with this health-provoking act. The combination in municipalities of alcoholic programmes along with drug use will improve the situation. Less people will have to carry out these tasks, they will be better prepared. We therefore believe that better use of resources, better use and better results will be in this regard. As far as the tax bill presented by Members is concerned, this is an additional clarification of the exact same rules already in force in the coverage of health insurance for persons up to the age of 26. Here, as you have said, the three elements that were addressed at the Health Committee were very important. One is this advice on combating addiction, the composition of the council, the possibility of compromise in cooperation between the president and the deputy president, which was a very important element in the discussion. So that from what we can see, those people who work together, who are on the council, have no communication problems. It has never happened that a proposal, not only a vice-president, but also a deputy or even a member, has not been taken into account. He is a permanent member of the local government, the Joint Government Commission and the Territorial Government. Therefore, any expectation of this member to be invited to meetings of the Council shall also be heard. Besides, this board is setting up advisory bodies, teams. Currently there is a team, as I said, to reform addiction medicine and this work is at a fairly advanced stage. There were still great comments on the continuation. Mr Zdzisław Wolski said that many people will lose their right to treat people with addictions. Of course, the law is very clear, and in general the whole system, which was prepared by previous governments after the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, that as far as any data is concerned about the powers of persons who can perform health benefits, the basket, about what the patient should be doing, it is carried out in a basket of guaranteed benefits. And such a basket is also here in the case of drug treatment benefits. Therefore, all those listed there may comply with those provisions. But we know that it is clear that this is guaranteed by the law, I know that such amendments have been presented. Since this problem has been reported in the Health Committee, such powers will not only be for a psychotherapy specialist of addictions, but also for addicts instructors to treat these two professional groups equally. There were also proposals to give instructors a degree in addiction therapy, which is carried out on the basis of specializations in health care. You don't practice that. We consider it equivalent, but we don't. Specializations, especially in psychotherapy, in various fields, are already being developed in the field of child specialization, there are uniform standards of conduct and uniform standards in this area. But in order for these people to continue to have full authority, they are considered equivalent (the bell) in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Oh... you didn't answer, Minister, you didn't want to.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u269	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project includes regulations on the establishment of the National Anti-Delcredere Centre by combining the National Office for Drug Prevention and the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems. It is therefore appropriate to reflect more on the issue of drug treatment in our country. Please answer the following questions. In view of the revision of the Public Health Act, is it intended to harmonise the procedures for becoming an addictive psychotherapy specialist? Will the Ministry agree with the demands of the community of therapists who claim that their profession remains the only medical profession in which obtaining a professional title involves the need to invest in education? Will the training of psychotherapists ultimately be funded by public funds? Will the newly established National Anti-Addictive Centre employ all existing employees of both connected entities? At what stage are the work of the team appointed at the Ministry of Health responsible for the development of the future reform of addiction treatment? Question: "Does the Ministry realise that this law eliminates from the treatment of alcohol addiction about 1,200 and 1,500 psychotherapists?" This could result in a breakdown of proven for years and an effective treatment system for addicts and co-dependents. What is the minister's position on this matter? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u271	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws (prints 1731 and 1737). I would very much like to ask Mr Jerzy Materna to submit a report to the committee. And thank you very much to the ministers for coming and speaking. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, prints No. 1731 and 1737. The Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, sent the above proposal to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping for first reading on 8 November. The Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation carried out its first reading of the draft law on 15 November 2021. In the first reading, Members tabled three amendments to improve the functioning of the Act. The Legislative Office has tabled an amendment of a more precise nature to the law. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposed law is one of the elements of the so-called law. an anti-crisis shield introducing a number of regulatory solutions to minimise adverse effects on the economy and society as a result of the epidemic caused by COVID-19. The draft law amends the Law of 2 March 2020 on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. U. poz. 1842, late. zm., hereinafter referred to as the Anti-COVID-19 Act, by the addition of an article. 15zzt, which will allow the validity of naval documents A diploma, a certificate of training, a certificate of the operator of radio equipment in the maritime service until the expiry of 90 days from the date of the cancellation of the epidemic or epidemic condition, whichever is the later. The proposed amendment to the validity of maritime documents is due to the deteriorating situation of seafarers who, due to restrictions introduced to prevent, counteract and combat COVID-19 in the Republic of Poland and other countries, have difficulties returning to the country and cannot renew their diploma, certificates, training or certificates of the operator of radio equipment in the maritime service or are unable to take appropriate training or to pass the examination necessary for the renewal of documents due to the restrictions introduced. In accordance with the International Convention on Standards for Training, Certification and Watchkeeping of Seafarers, they must be renewed during 5-year periods by completing updating training or passing an examination. Such training shall take place in maritime education units recognised by the Minister responsible for Maritime Affairs, the MJE, and shall consist of a theoretical and practical part. The lack of the possibility of stationary training prevents MJE training and thus the renewal of certificates by seafarers. The absence of such certificates shall prevent seafarers from embarking on a ship and shall terminate the contract for failure by the seafarer to hold appropriate qualification documents. In view of the above, it is proposed to add in the Against COVID-19 articles. 15zzt1 according to which where the term of validity of the diploma and the certificate of training referred to in Article 1 as appropriate. 63 points 1 and 3 of the Maritime Safety Act of 18 August 2011 or the certificate of the operator of radio equipment in the maritime service referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1a of the Law of 16 July 2004 on telecommunications law expires between 1 February 2020 and 13 March 2020, the term of validity of those documents will be extended until 90 days from the date of the cancellation of the epidemic or epidemic threat, whichever is later. The recommended solution shall take into account the guidelines set out in International Maritime Organisation circular letter No 4204 of 2 April 2020 concerning guidelines for the certification of seafarers and fishermen. According to Art. 15zzzzl lips. 2 The Antitrust Act COVID-19 grants from the State budget to finance the Agency's implementation of the tasks referred to in Article. 15zzzzl lips. 1 of this bill. An entity obliged to pay a grant pursuant to Article. 15zzzzl lips. 3 of the Antitrust Act COVID-19 is the Minister responsible for Transport. The draft law amends the Law of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration, Dz. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1893, which aim to optimise the functioning of administrative structures. The project proposes changes in matters assigned to the water management department. It is assumed that the Minister responsible for water management will take over the melioration tasks from the Minister responsible for rural development. This amendment aims to ensure that a coherent system of water melioration is set up by the water management authority. Water melioration consists of regulating water relations in order to improve soil production capacity and facilitate soil cultivation. This action is one way of using water resources. The measures taken in the area of drainage by the Minister responsible for water management should therefore be carried out in close cooperation with the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, which is competent in matters relating to agricultural chambers, farmers' trade unions and socio-occupational organisations of farmers, i.e. representatives directly interested in improving water conditions for agriculture. The epidemic threat associated with the COVID-19 pandemic has also affected schools and educational institutions. It is therefore proposed to add provisions amending the Law of 31 March 2020 amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The amendment consists in the addition to Article. 65 ww. Paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. Amendments to the Act of 15 July 2020 on the Tourist Bone, OJ OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 839, in particular, they aim to postpone the deadline for making payments by means of a tourist voucher. Amendment to Article Paragraph 7 1 and 2 of the Act of 15 July 2020 on the Polish Tourist Bone extending the deadline of 30 March 2022 to 30 September 2022 for payment for hotel services or tourist events by means of a Polish Tourist Bonus will create a vast majority of persons entitled to use this voucher for its full use. The draft law does not require presentation to the competent authorities and institutions of the European Union, including the European Central Bank. The draft law is compatible with European Union law. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Commission adopted the draft law without objection. I recommend the High House to adopt a proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u273	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kacper Płażyński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Mr President, I kindly invite you to speak. [[You're always kind, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm trying, but as you know, it's a lot of judgment. [[That's what?]] It's assessed differently. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, it was the rapporteur who described to a very broad extent the issues which were included in this draft amendments to the five laws. Indeed, they are part of the anti-COVID shield, both in more social aspects, for example in addressing the needs of today's education and in enabling authorities to apply for support more easily and economically. The best emanation is that, as this law will pass, in the case of ports of Szczecin and Świnoujście, it will be possible to recapitalisation them up to PLN 360 million for very important purposes both for these ports and for companies which will later pursue these objectives, i.e.. construction of breakwaters. Ladies and gentlemen! There are a lot of changes. I will not repeat after the rapporteur, but like the other members of the Maritime Affairs Committee, I recommend voting for this project on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. There were no votes against this proposal on the committee. I think there are situations beyond political divisions when we agree in substance that these changes are needed. There are important gestures and this bill is one of them, meets very many social and economic needs, including for us still difficult post-COVID or COVID time. At the same time, Mr. Marshal, I have amendments that aim to carry out more of the functions of the complex project, and I will allow you, Mr. Marshal, to pass them on to the Law and Justice Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u275	Let me take them from you, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As already mentioned, the Law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and fight against COVID-19 and some other laws is one of the elements of the so-called. an anti-crisis shield that introduces regulatory solutions to minimise the adverse effects caused by the epidemic caused by COVID-19. The proposed solutions concern the extension of the validity of maritime documents which, due to the restrictions resulting from the pandemic, could not be renewed within the applicable time limits, grants to the Air Navigation Agency - this is to provide financial resources to cover the costs of the COVID counter-measures, including. Unmanned aircraft operations - financial support for passenger railway carriers, acquisition by the Minister responsible for water management of melioration tasks by the Minister responsible for rural development. Here I just wanted to stress that the opposition does not want to interfere in the division of competences between the resorts, we will judge the government for its effects, while the communal news says that the amendments made by Mr Płażyński are, in effect, reversing the solution which was adopted in committee. I think tomorrow at the next committee meeting we'll explain it to the end. The proposed amendments also refer to the deferral at the time of the entry into force of the changes in the system of water service charges, which include the introduction of a fixed fee for water services, the collection of groundwater and surface waters on the availability of groundwater resources and the average low flow from the multi-annual period. According to the projectors, due to the pandemic, it was not possible to collect the data necessary for calculations from the area, which is contested in the material sent by the High Commission of Polish Districts. The amendment proposals further refer to the change of the date of the current river basin management plans and flood risk management plans for river basin areas, the exemption from the obligation to pay charges for the use of inland waterways and water facilities owned by the State Treasury, located in inland surface waters, for entrepreneurs who carry out activities involving the carriage of cargo, passengers and technical works and for natural persons engaged in inland waterway shipping on waterways. The government also proposes to transfer to the company the Management Board of Maritime Ports Szczecin and Świnoujście Treasury securities amounting to PLN 360 million. It proposes support for bodies operating education systems in the field of equipment for schools and institutions and teaching aids. It also proposes that the deadline for making payments be postponed by means of a tourist voucher. High Seym! The Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation considered the draft at its meeting on 15 November 2021. The draft, although its scope exceeded the competence of the committee, as mentioned above, did not raise any controversy and was adopted by the committee together with the amendments tabled by the Members of the Government. These amendments were a consequence of the proposed solutions. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I recommend you accept this project. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir. The secretary and I are looking forward to this vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u278	I'm so happy for you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I am pleased to present my position on this draft law, a proposal amending a total of six laws in force in our country. One can say that the first general remark is that we have the impression that today COVID is used by the Polish government not to correct Polish law, but rather to spoil Polish law. We have the impression that this is about the fact that the ministry is sending out information that we are preparing a change of the COVID laws from March 2nd, March 30th, what you have there in these ministries, so maybe we'll just throw it in one more draft bill and we'll take it easy. This is not a good direction to be clear, because once we examine the substantive side of this bill, it will turn out that in this law issues related to COVID de facto, in fact, may actually concern the Maritime Safety Act or the Air Navigation Act, while issues such as schools abroad or issues of government administration are absolutely a field for proceeding over other laws. As I mentioned, you are putting a few issues here, some of which are not controversial, but some of which are unfortunately aroused by these controversy. As far as maritime safety is concerned, that's probably the reason... I see President Sawicki, who I asked: Why does this draft law appear at the meeting of our committee on maritime affairs? He couldn't answer that question either. Probably because someone has read the first point, and there is indeed a question of delaying the validity of all these rights as regards maritime safety. That's probably why it went to our committee. But what the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has to do with government departments and your government problems to get along, I don't know. Let me just remind you that the law on government departments appeared on 17 November 2020 and because of your internal arguments the president vetoed it, and then, on 19 January this year, a new draft of this law appeared and he's somewhere in these committees. Right now, you're making a change through the back door, so there's an internal dispute in the government that's supposed to be settled by this bill. As far as the Act - Water Law is concerned, it is evident that again we are dealing with the functioning of a state enterprise, i.e. the Polish Waters, which failed to perform all tasks, of course partly by COVID, but unfortunately also partly by such and not by other management. Today we are moving all of this to 2023, causing water charges to be much higher than would have been the case under the current law, from 2022. The Investment Act for External Ports. This is PLN 360 million for the port of Szczecin-Świnoujście. I'm smiling at the Minister, but on the other hand, the question is, why spoil it all again in the sense of legislation. I know what this is all about. At the moment we hide again 360 million PLN somewhere in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. It goes beyond the budget again, and yet the Minister knows and I know very well that this 360 million PLN has nothing to do with COVID, because it is simply an investment in the expansion of ports, which is really very necessary and should be, but it is in the COVID Act. Tourist voucher. Of course, this is a matter of time shift, and it is probably very good that this has happened, but aid for schools abroad is again included in the COVID Act. This, I'm sorry, is COVID abroad and he's not in Poland? I understand that it is necessary to help foreign schools that teach Polish, but from this there is another law and it was possible to change the normal path, not the COVID path. To sum up, of course, there are several different cases (the bell) put in from different laws, you can say that from Sasa to Las, but because in generals these are good solutions, the Left Club will support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u279	Thank you for this announcement. Mr Marek Sawicki, Coalition Poland. Minister, I cordially invite you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, of course, just as we will not interfere with the government's performance of its tasks with the laws concerning, for example, the state of emergency or previous COVID laws. Of course, we are not going to support him too much either, because the direction you are setting is not entirely in line with our way of seeing the state and solving cases. My previous speakers stressed very clearly that this law is a late addition to the COVID Act, in which certain groups and areas were forgotten. At the moment, they've been dug up and tried to make amends in connection with the COVID crisis. But it seems that this is the wrong way and the wrong legislation, because, Minister, if the government is preparing a bill first and he is being consulted internally, and already at first reading the political background of the government is making amendments and during second reading the same political background is making further amendments, it is lost, what you really expect from Parliament as a government. I have a question for you. On the one hand, let me be honest, I congratulate you on your strength. As Deputy Minister, you defeated the newly appointed Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture Kowalczyk in this government. You're taking over a lot of tasks from him. Interestingly, I asked the Prime Minister today whether it was agreed and whether he is aware that the issue of melioration is going to the Minister of Infrastructure. He was surprised and said he'd explain it by tonight. I thought that the amendments made by the Member on behalf of the Law and Justice Club would be aimed at bringing back the minister of agriculture's melioration. However, when I consult with you, I find out that there is such a thing as funding for the Minister of Agriculture, but the tasks will be with the Minister of Infrastructure. So there's some kind of breaking again. This will certainly be difficult to implement and to implement. I wish you success, good luck, because it also depends on the success of the segments of the economy affected by this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u281	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have a situation where the government once again patched holes in the COVID laws. A set of laws fighting COVID can be treated as a new constitution in order to combat one disease, which redefines dozens of different areas of life and starts to reorganize them. You are acting in the spirit of constant change, so that no one by any chance will notice that your actions are fundamentally inefficient. Missions are transferred from the Ministry to the Ministry or fixed problems caused by previous decisions, such as the COVID law. It's a good thing you haven't refreshed your lawbreaking project again in the name of fighting COVID-19 and not punishing it. Analyzing the procedated bill, we can see the enchanting even interdisciplinaryness, although the printing is rather short. I found there issues related to the extension of the term of validity of the naval booklets. That is right, it needs to be extended, since it could not be possible to extend the validity of these documents on a standard basis. I also found references in the project to melioration, to air traffic - interesting things for such a short bill. The entire area of drainage shall be moved from the Minister of Agriculture to the Minister of Infrastructure. It's something that's basically hard to comment on. I understand, as my previous speakers have said, that you will manage this in a well-known way. You could say not our circus. And yet a little bit of ours, so we're interested. And that is why I am concerned that you may simply fail, as many other things have gone wrong. As for the tourist voucher, it is obvious that Poles did not enjoy it so much, since you still want to extend its validity. Well, instead of this distribution of tourist vouchers, perhaps it was not necessary to introduce these closures of the economy, but to allow Poles to work. We're pressuring the bill. Within a plus minus 7 days, she ended up on the Marine Management Committee and could have landed anywhere else. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a serious procedure, but if it is, you will take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u284	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the governmental bill amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill contains a number of changes that can be basically divided into three large groups. The first group concerns the real changes that we need in our assessment. For those changes that are needed, we can include e.g. issues related to the extension of the validity of maritime documents. I think we are fully aware that travel restrictions, travel restrictions do not, in many cases, allow appropriate measures to be taken to extend the validity of these documents. It is therefore appropriate to meet the expectations of seafarers. Such changes, which we welcome, certainly include an extension by the end of this year of the period for which compensation for the provision of public collective transport services contracted by public service providers from the State budget for the recognition of statutory travel rights by public collective transport may be transferred. We also assess that it is very appropriate to exempt tolls for the use of inland waterways and their sections by 31 December 2022, as well as to allow or create a legal basis for financing schools for hybrid or distance learning from COVID. These are the changes that can be considered legitimate. Among these changes that we consider appropriate is also part of the changes that arise from the need to correct the mistakes made by the government and by the parliamentary majority at the legislative stage, that is, in Parliament. Here we see that pushing the rules with your knee gets revenge. And so on. there are questions concerning remuneration for the Polish Air Navigation Agency. It turned out that the rules pushed by the government and mostly resulted in the fact that PAZP could not receive this funding. And it's being fixed in this bill. Of course, this is necessary, but it shows this disorder in the actions of the majority. The same is true of changes in river basin management plans and flood risk management plans for river basin areas. This is also due to a certain inability. Of course, partly (the bell) this was not done because of the COVID conditions, but in a large part it is the result of the inadequacies of the resort. But there are things like that. transfer of PLN 360 million to the port board in Świnoujście. This is something that goes beyond the framework, I'd say, COVID, and so is the change in taking over... Mr President, maybe you'll ask questions. I'm almost done, Marshal. Thank you. ...Miliority cases. We do not know what will happen in the amendments that have been tabled by the governing majority, and we will therefore speak on this proposal, after examining these amendments, in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u285	Thank you very much, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening up a list of questions. Nine people volunteered. I'm closing this list for this. I would like to ask Mr Jan Szopiński from the parliamentary club of the Left. Question is, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill deals with the resolution of cases related to the prevention and fight against COVID-19. I'm starting to wonder when the government is going to put everything into the COVID fight law, but it's not going to be implemented in normally understood laws. I was very worried about this case when I reached a point where the government wants to fight the pandemic with the help of the drainage ditches. Please respond in writing to the question: How do the proposed changes relate to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19? This is particularly the case for changes which are in the Act and which say that a statement can be the basis for confirming the costs incurred in marketing. I'll ask you kindly to answer me in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project concerns allowing seafarers to embark on a ship which, due to the epidemic, are having difficulties returning to the country and to renew their documents and maintain the validity of their naval documents until the date of 90 days after the outbreak or epidemic has been cancelled. Minister! Please inform me how many such cases I have cited earlier, because this entry has been included in the bill. Thank you, and I ask for a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u289	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the Polish tourist voucher. Its aim, as we know, is to support families on the one hand, on the other hand companies affected by the COVID pandemic. Of course, it's a fine project. It was due to end in 2022 in March, the extension is most appropriate. On the other hand, I would like to ask, firstly, what is the extent to which these vouchers have been used at the moment, and secondly, how many companies have benefited from the tourist voucher so far. And why are you prolonging it by six months? Because, let me remind you, last year in winter, the ski industry, mountain resorts encountered quite big problems because on the one hand there were no guidelines prepared, you closed, you opened the slopes. As a result, it might be worth extending this by a full year so that the industry, which suffered quite badly last year, could at the moment be even more in the winter season. And since I'm already in the winter and ski business, I wanted to ask you when there's gonna be some guidelines for the edge on the slopes, because on the one hand, it's really cool that the slopes will be open, but on the other hand, it would be good to know, and the industry is already asking if there's gonna be some kind of sanitary regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u291	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u292	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you two questions. The first concerns a tourist voucher. The government proposed to extend until 30 September 2022. I wanted to ask, because this is another extension, for what reasons does the government insist that these vouchers, that these measures must be limited in time? It seems, I think, that everyone who lives in tourist regions is aware that the epidemic has left a very serious mark on entrepreneurs, on many companies: many companies have fallen, many companies are still in trouble. Therefore, why is the State permanently determining the term of validity, why is it not the right that will apply until exhaustion, or at least for a few years, 2, 3 consecutive years, until the end of these measures? And second question... Thank you very much. And the second question, very short: How many sailors can deal with the problem of obtaining permission? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u293	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! I have a question for Minister Grybarczyk as regards the issue of investment in the sea port of Szczecin-Świnoujście, namely investment in container port in Świnoujście. The amount of PLN 360 million is entered, so the question is whether this is the amount that has already been verified in the context of rising inflation, construction costs. Has it been verified and is this the amount that takes into account all these external factors? Secondly, as regards this investment, about the container port: a year or two years ago there were high social tensions in the town of Świnoujście and the inhabitants of Świnoujście itself, and my question is whether there is an agreement with the Świnoujście authorities on this matter and whether all the details concerning the construction of the container port are agreed with the President and the Council (The Bell) of Świnoujście. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u296	This special act should be called a tritic law, because for almost a year and a half now our country has been operating on this triticium - constantly patched and constantly changed. And that is my question: When will our country finally cease to act in the ad hoc mode of this hasty bill? I would like to remind you that even then, in February or March of the previous year, when we adopted this, I warned you that the makeshifts in our home are the most durable and I demanded that this be adopted only for six months. Mr Dworczyk even wanted to agree to this, so that after six months all these regulations should be rethought and adopted in a normal manner, with consultations, with everything. Instead, we got more adjustments, more triticles, more chapters just thrown into this pot. What isn't there? Water law, there'll be a combat manual at sea, now tourist vouchers. Why did you first determine that these travel vouchers are valid, and now you're prolonging them? If it makes sense for them to have an expiration date (the bell), why extend it? This is one big legislative dumpster, one century old paw and enough of this crap. We demand that this law be repealed in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u297	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski from the Left Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I wanted to ask what impact the amendment to the Water Law will have on the price of water for households. The article adopted states that from the date of entry into force of the Act until 31 December 2023, the Polish waters determine the amount of fees for water services, without taking into account the average low flow from the multi-annual period. Yesterday, in the pages of the Polish People's Republic... According to Eurostat data in Poland, the price of water increased when comparing November 2015 to November 2021 by 17,7%. Prices of municipal services in this period increased in Poland by 164... They were three times higher than in the next country, Romania. The most obviously increased prices of garbage collection, but also sewage and water. Therefore, will these provisions, or will the failure to do so affect the rise in water prices (the Bell) for individual customers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u299	Thank you very much. And Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Sometimes you can find a little pearl or a diamond in a pile of garbage. [[Voice from the room: Diamond.]] I may have gone too far, but I would have defined this law a little bit, also because it finances the port industry very well in the West Pomeranian region. And that's what my question is about. Minister, do we - because we know that when you do business, you have to get money and then spend it well - that's the most important thing - do we have a business plan? Because I understand that the money will be used to build the breakwaters. Is there a business plan, or are we just gonna make it, and we're just gonna be looking for a contractor? This is important to me. On the other hand, I wanted to thank you from the widely understood tourism industry - from tourism to hotels, from sea to mountains, from lakes to rivers - for what I requested six months ago or eight months ago: for extending the validity of the tourist voucher. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. Goodbye. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u301	Thank you, sir, for these pearls and diamonds... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...who will try to collect the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Marek G grubarczyk. [[But here they praise the minister.]] You're a minister worthy of pearls and diamonds, as you can see. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for all your comments, the constructive ones and the unconstructive ones. They are very important in the final form, because the majority of this House supports this law, for which I thank you very much. It is mainly aimed at combating the pandemic and reducing its effects, especially for the economy, and it does so. That is why we will continue to implement such laws, because they are constantly improving the situation of citizens, which we as a government are obliged to do. With regard to the questions you have asked, the first is the basic one, which is going through the House, which is primarily addressed by Mr Evening, who, on the one hand, supports them and on the other hand, does not support them. Maybe he doesn't support it, and in the end he supports it, and thank you very much for it. But attacking or considering the appropriateness of the allocation of precisely those 365 million to the port is, Mr President, a big misunderstanding, and I think it should not come out of your mouth - a West Pomeranian Member. [[No, Minister, of course not!]] Not much, I thought you were going to attack me, asking why we're only running 360 million, and it turns out you're asking why we're running this money at all, and it's in this mode. That's why in this mode, because we couldn't in another mode. As the European Commission has adopted Regulation No 651, which specifically addresses the effects of the COVID, enabling the issuance of bonds within the state budget, we have taken this opportunity to prepare a solution that supported the port in Gdynia last year and the port in Szczecin, which has already received 328 million. However, in order to complete the breaker - because the price of this breaker will be in the range of 700 million - another 360 million has been prepared as part of the bonds through this law. Thanks to this, the entire breakwater will be built, of course, on the basis of a business plan and a cost estimate, because on what basis could we prepare it? After all, only on the basis of documents which have already been prepared for the implementation of this investment. These funds will be transferred to its implementation. The need for a container terminal - I will no longer explain this, sir. Thank you very much, then. As far as the tourist voucher is concerned, it is a proposal from the Ministry of Sport, so if you don't mind, we will send a detailed written reply. But thank you very much to Mr Łącki, who supports this, even though there are people in the group who do not support this solution. We are very pleased, however, that this solution is acceptable. How many sailors will use this bill? We estimate about 30,000. Sailors are Polish nationalities. The principle is that every 5 years any kind of entitlement or most of the powers should be renewed, so we assume that about 6,000. Sailors should benefit from this bill, perhaps more. Because first of all, you can't swim if you don't have a renewed permit to save lives at sea. And that's what this law makes possible - the extension of these powers. Of course, the amendment to Water Law has nothing to do with water prices. Water prices are determined by local authorities and accepted by the Polish Waters. Polish waters as a regulator do not allow water prices to rise above the statutory solutions. It's an element of inflation. So I want to assure you that this will have no impact on the rise in water prices. The rest of the questions I haven't answered, let me answer them in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u303	Thank you very much, Minister. You threw the Polish Seym with pearls and diamonds. We are all delighted with this response and speech. Let's keep going. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law amending the law on local taxes and charges and on the Senate draft law amending the law on local taxes and charges, print No. 1736. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the governmental draft law amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws (prints no. 1681 and 1740). I would very much like to ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present a report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on a draft government law amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. The Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading, which took place yesterday, on 15 November. The entire bill contains only 17 articles, while some are very extensive. Yesterday, the committee meeting was working and proceeding on the legislative amendments tabled, which were 48 and 8 parliamentary amendments. All amendments were accepted. The bill was adopted by the committee as a result of a vote: 24 Members voted 21, against 0 and 3 abstentions. I'll just give you two or three more information. This law has met with quite a substantive, factual approach of all Members, which is good for us and maybe good for further work. I hope that also during the second reading - there have been such announcements - there will be proposals to your marshal. I hope that also after these proposals are tabled, the committee will take care of this and we will be able to adopt this law on the basis of consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u305	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Kalet of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice would like to say a few words. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u306	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Since you suggested it was a few words, so be it. Indeed, it is a bill which, I believe, does not cause great controversy, and at the same time this law is very necessary, because, as it turns out, the word "miracle" is changed today by all cases. This law aims to clarify the rules governing the functioning of foreigners in our country, their employment, as well as those relating to social care and temporary or longer stays and ways of legalising them. In fact, as President Zdzisław Sipiera said, there was a substantive discussion at the committee meeting, which is why I would also like to express my satisfaction. I would also like to stress that this law is extremely necessary for us at the moment, which should be implemented as soon as possible in the Polish legal system. Yes, these are the things we should do first, as soon as possible. At the moment we are in such a situation that there is a meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration, which has been interrupted so that we can speak on behalf of the committee, on behalf of the club, and it also concerns the situation on the Polish border. Therefore, I will not use all the time I have planned for me, and at the same time I would just like to declare that the Law and Justice Club fully supports this law and asks the High House to adopt it. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u307	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Boris, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. Please, Peter. It's good to see you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u308	Nice to meet you, too. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Thank you for welcoming me. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition, I would like to express my opinion on a law which is extremely important. What is currently happening in the voivodship offices, with regard to the issue of mostly a huge number of applications concerning temporary stay and work, raises considerable concern among us. Relevant protests were also held in Wrocław. Records sometimes wait a few years, even five years, for decisions to be made. Objectively, it's difficult. We have more and more foreigners willing to work in Poland, and we also have appropriate administrative constraints, the number of people involved, as well as bureaucratic problems. That is why this law is heading in the right direction, it has tried to do everything to help all those who want to work in Poland. We do not rule out that many dozens, perhaps several hundred thousand foreigners, present citizens of Ukraine or Belarus, their future will be tied to Poland. We have many thousands of examples here. Many thousands of people working in Poland, even for 10 years whose children learn in Polish schools, see such a future for themselves. Therefore, Polish employers should have a large part of the facilitations resulting from the relevant decisions concerning temporary residence permits in our country, including especially temporary residence and work. That is why we will generally support the bill with a few minor amendments. We welcome the fact that a number of changes involve replacing the residence requirement, sources of stable, regular income with the lowest wage requirement. We will only have the appropriate attention to maintain proportionality, because in this article. 114 point 5 refers to the amount of the minimum wage irrespective of the time and the size of the work. The aim is to align conditions concerning foreigners with Polish conditions, because some work part-time, and also pay attention to these elements. We are pleased that a number of procedures will take place more quickly with the introduction of electronic exchange between the voivode and other authorities, so the speed of exchange of correspondence and verification of foreigners to make a decision will certainly increase. We will also want to force the government to spend relatively more money on financial, organisational and employment support in a perspective, and we will therefore propose that in Article. 106 specify in relation to the voivodeship the time of 30 days on the call of the foreigner to complete the deficiencies, which will automatically speed up the procedures. We know that this is extremely ambitious, but we believe that if we do not define certain time criteria, we will always be stuck in a situation where procedures are extremely time-consuming and, at the end, very costly for Polish entrepreneurs who employ foreigners, but also for those who want to decide to stay and do work in our country after obtaining the right consent. It also welcomes the shortening of the 60-day deadline for examining applications for national visas and the shortening of appeals to 90 days. We know that the Act sets out a number of other elements resulting from the recognition of the judgments of the Court of Justice, including in the context of the Family reunification Directive, the issue of minority. In general, the bill is moving towards shortening these great queues of thousands of people waiting. We ourselves, as Members, are even several times a month witnessing various complaints, requests for intervention by foreigners who - I stress once again - often very well speak Polish, have children and have problems arising from procedures, which are sometimes innocent by them, and sometimes result from a change of place of residence, loss of documents, which prolongs procedures. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will therefore certainly support this law, together with the relevant amendments, taking into account the possibility of redress in certain cases, so that proceedings do not end in de facto expulsion or leaving the country, but that there is the possibility of creating a window that will enable the voivodeship, administration to consider the individual case or restore the time limit when it considers the case to be justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u309	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u310	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the parliamentary club, the Left has the honour to present to the High House our position towards the government draft law amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. Poland has been facing a difficult demographic situation for years, and this problem can grow in the years to come. We can deal in the long term with the burden on the pension system, the health care system or the destabilisation of the democratic system. At present, the lack of an adequate number of workers in the labour market makes our economy need support from foreigners. We believe that the Polish immigration policy should be based on the quota system and provide for an easy way of acquiring a title for permanent residence and legal employment. Today, almost 800,000 people work in Poland. people from abroad. It's over 11%. 60% more than at the end of 2019 employed foreigners are employees employed for employment contracts. 3% of them are engaged in business activities and others benefit from a different form of employment. Nearly 3/4 of foreigners employed in Poland are Ukrainians. They fill gaps in the labour market, contribute to GDP growth and social security contributions. Unfortunately, it seems that Poland copies the German, French model from the 1950s and 1960s, when Western countries used the work of foreigners without settling them permanently, i.e. they used the so-called. Gastarbeiter model. We can pay for this in the future. Currently, the visa issue process is not guaranteed continuity. This sometimes results in downtimes in the good operation of procedures so far, which can translate into problems with issuing visas for Ukrainian citizens and the supply of people from the East to the Polish labour market. The Ombudsman of small and medium-sized enterprises has been actively requesting action since the beginning of 2019 to remedy the chronicity of proceedings under consideration by the Voivodship Offices in matters relating to the employment of foreigners. The government, recognizing the problems of entrepreneurs and at the same time trying to support them in supplementing the staff shortages of workers from the East, submitted a change to the Act on Foreigners. This law represents a revolution in facilitating the employment of foreigners on simplified terms. Currently, Polish companies can draw employees from the former Soviet Union, Armenia, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, Russia and Ukraine on simplified rules, but only for a period of 6 months. This period will be extended to 2 years. After the changes to the law to bring such an employee to Poland, it is enough for the entrepreneur to issue a declaration about entrusting the work to a foreigner. The basic change is to extend the working life of the foreigner from 6 months to 24 months. It's supposed to relieve the work of the voivodship offices. The foreigner will be able to work for up to 2 years on the basis of the so-called. a statement and obtaining a work permit for him will no longer be necessary. The simplified procedure for granting temporary residence and work permits will apply to proceedings initiated before 1 January 2022. The procedures for granting work permits to foreigners carried out by the voivodship offices will be accelerated. The requirement for the foreigner to present the address of residence in Poland as necessary for the issue of a residence and work permit in our country will be waived. The amendment also contains a provision that a foreigner will have to receive at least a minimum wage regardless of the employment he is employed for. The Act abolishes the mode of modification of the temporary residence permit and work in the event of a change of the entity entrusting the performance of the work. This authorisation shall not specify the entity entrusting the performance of the work or the conditions under which it is carried out. These will be determined after the decision to grant the permit has been delivered by the foreigner who will submit to the voivodship a statement of the entrepreneur entrusting him with his work. The catalogue of circumstances that do not require a change of the temporary residence and work permit shall be extended. Entities of special strategic importance for our economy will obtain a permit for work and temporary residence of a foreigner more quickly. Disappearing has a 12-month period, which will allow the employee to be extended continuously on the basis of further declarations. This will result in the disappearance of D05a visas and there will be no need to limit their validity to 6 months. According to the amendment, the obligation of health insurance will be considered to be fulfilled when it comes to the employment of a foreigner in Poland. The Act also makes it easier to apply for the Polish Charter. Entrepreneurs hope that the Ministry of the Family will benefit from changes in the possibility of extending the list of countries from which these workers can be recruited, or will define rules that will allow us to use a simplified procedure when bringing specialists to Poland. My club supports the solutions adopted, with one amendment being tabled. We also wanted to draw attention, Minister, to the fact that very many visas are not issued, among others. for Indians or Nepaleses. We ask for some solutions for these people, because it is tens of thousands of people who are waiting to find a job in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u311	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you for the correction. I invite Mr Marek Biernacki, Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on foreigners and some other laws. The club supports this project because this amendment contains simplifications regarding administrative proceedings in relation to the legalisation of foreigners' stay in Poland, in particular in the case of total residence and work permits, which are the most frequently granted type of temporary residence permits. What is important, the amendment provides for the abolition of the requirement to have a place of residence provided and the requirement to have stable and regular income as regards the granting of a temporary residence and work permit. However, the foreigner is required to receive no less than a minimum wage for work. An important change is also to extend the working life to 24 months. It will be possible to speed up the issue of work permits for foreigners wishing to do work in entities of special strategic importance for Poland. The Directory of these entities will be defined separately by the Ministry responsible for economic affairs. The bill is so important to us that it was expected by employers, Polish entrepreneurs. It comes out in front of their voices. For years, Polish employers have been paying attention to the fact that providing an adequate number of employees with qualifications corresponding to current labour market requirements is a factor ensuring the possibility of developing individual economic operators and regions of Poland. Labour shortages are particularly felt in the ICT, trade, production and construction sectors. Sometimes I'm in Kashubach, and I see that my hands are missing, for example. in a sawmill or in other companies. Entrepreneurs are very complaining that they are unable to execute all orders, and their companies could work much more effectively and better. Without completing this gap, these companies will lose their ability to execute futures or to comply with concluded contracts. This is so important that we must remember that it does not affect or rather weaken the labour market. This is still lacking in the Polish labour market and is a natural complement to it. What is important, in addition to the introduction of these simplifications in the granting of temporary residence permits to foreigners, improvements are being made as regards proceedings on the Polish Charter and facilitation of repatriation procedures. Minister, great respect, because it is good that you pointed out that there are still some imperfections in these laws, that Poles who are in a difficult situation in the East, each time facilitate, although with small steps, the possibility of returning to Poland or obtaining a Pole's Charter. And there's a lot of respect. For me, it is important that the functioning of the administration is improved, among others. through the introduction of electronic communications, remained in the administration. Thus, introducing solutions according to which the exchange of information between the voivodship or the head of the Office for Foreigners and the competent services and authorities providing information as to whether the entry and stay of foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland may pose a threat to the defence or security of the State or the protection of security and public order, can be carried out by electronic means, is very important because the services always like to do everything on paper, which greatly extends the course, and electronic communication will cause it to take place much more efficiently and effectively. In view of the basic objectives pursued by the bill, it should be borne in mind that the faster admission of foreigners to the Polish labour market can only take place if the consular services in the east of Europe are strengthened, i.e. Belarus and Ukraine. As I said, the Polish Coalition supports this project. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u313	Thank you, sir, Minister. I invite Mr Dobromir Sosnier, near the Confederation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u314	I am not convinced that this is the best time for this amendment, but we do need hands to work, because we have pushed our own to a large extent abroad. I understand that actually only thanks to the import of cheap labour from Ukraine, the building of PiS socialism still holds up somehow. A few million people have come to us who offer their work cheaply and benefit little from the benefits of this country. So they are net contributors to our budget, but this will not last forever. If you continue to experiment with socialism, discourage people from working and encourage them to reach out after someone else's money, then only those who want to stretch their hands after someone else's money will be left here, and those to whom these hands are drawn, and those whose pockets are more and more shaken, will go away again and will not be a place to bury this hole. So instead of filling the hole on a temporary basis, let's do what works in the long term, or dismantle socialism. However, as far as ad hoc solutions are concerned, it must also be stressed that we need immigrants to work, but not all to the same extent. Emigration of emigration is uneven. This must finally be clearly distinguished. We don't want to. The wild boar that throws stones at our soldiers. We do not want people who, as other countries' experiences show, cause problems. We don't want people who don't assimilate, we want to build Islamic neighborhoods. We fear Islamists, even if they come with gifts. Facilitates should be addressed to European close immigration We're culturally involved. Today they are mainly Ukrainians and Belarusians. In the future, they may be refugees from the Rhine caliphate or Australia turning into a grotesque massage despot. Let's learn from other people's mistakes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u315	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent years, without any political debate, without any fundamental debate in this parliament, the social, national structure of Poland is changing. In fact, almost all political forces present in this Chamber are in favour of the direction of transforming the Polish state into a multicultural, multicultural country. And it's not just the one that's easier to assimilate, although not in such large numbers, the Ukrainian and Belarusian population, but the point is that in recent years we've had an eightfold increase in legal immigration, Minister, from Muslim countries. In recent years, all migration rates from Asia have gone crazy in terms of growth. This is the hypocrisy and hypocrisy of the rulers. Of course, you are doing everything - inefficiently - to stop those at the border, but on the other hand you are giving us exactly the same perspective as Western Europe. Why? Because the millions of visitors who today form the districts of the No-go in Western Europe, these millions of visitors from other continents, did not enter Western Europe by force. These people, thanks to the same policy you apply, have come to these countries, and that is why PiS, Platform, Left, PSL, you are all preparing for us the same future as in Western Europe. This is the result of your migration policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u317	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, near Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Poland 2050 likes improvements, which is why we support the improvement of foreign policy, which is why we support this necessary law. We believe that it could be handled in a mini-max mode, which is a minimum of words, maximum of good, necessary law. We read in the explanatory memorandum: more and more applications for residence permits are submitted in Poland, in particular temporary residence permits and work permits, because there is a need for foreigners to access the Polish labour market, as well as to facilitate the acquisition by investors of strategic workers from abroad. Quote for justification. It welcomes the fact that the law was also created to implement the rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union. He is happy because this institution has recently been ignored by the governing camp very often. However, many editorial and linguistic amendments are concerned. It's a sign of urgency and, unfortunately, legal sloppyness. It seems to me that this bill goes unnoticed because aliens have been spoken of recently for a completely different reason. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, allow me... I'll allow it. High Seym! I thank you from this plenary room for Polish soldiers, police officers, Border Guards. I would also like to express my appreciation for the Border Group and its associations. I direct them towards thanks and warm words, because they gave warmth to those affected by this law. Medics at the border also brought the rescue. You too, dear rescuers, doctors, hats off. Doctors, rescuers from the Polish Centre for International Aid, who replaced the Medics at the border, wish you luck. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u319	Thank you very much. 11 people came to the questions. I'm setting the time for the question - 1 minute. I invite Mr Jan Szopiński, Member of the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposed amendments are very welcome. The national labour market has been internationalised, as is the case in all developed countries around the world. Today it is difficult to imagine the functioning of the Polish economy without workers coming from other countries. It is good that the government sees the need to bring the law into line with economic realities. However, the question is why it was not decided to go further. Does the administrative system in our country, which is supposed to be one of the best functioning in Europe, really require 60 days to process the complete application of a foreigner for a temporary stay? Do regulations have to force employers to apply rotation among employed foreigners? This last question is particularly important for workers who have frequent costly training. Finally, do the authorities not have to exchange documents between themselves in electronic form and only can? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think they should and must. Thank you very much. I'd like a written reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The project concerns the improvement of procedures for granting temporary residence permits to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland, in particular temporary residence permits and work permits, which are the most frequently granted type of temporary residence permits in Poland. I would ask very much for information: Are you convinced that the time limit for examining applications for permits for this stay will be respected by individual institutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u323	Thank you very much. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u324	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Foreigners who end up with a work permit must apply for or apply for an extension of the work permit. So I have a question: Do you consider automatic renewal of work permit for a foreigner when the employer has not changed the employment contract and conditions, and the foreigner is not subject to any temptations and works very well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u325	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u326	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the transport industry. Indeed, here we are dealing with a situation where the absence of drivers is, at times, a powerful barrier to the development and functioning of this industry. I wanted to ask if these regulations will improve the situation and if the number of people from abroad can increase, who will be able to do the work of the driver in our Polish companies. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u327	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski. There's no envoy. Mr Aleksander Mishalski. There isn't. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u328	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It has to be admitted that the industry, especially the economy, has been waiting for this law because it lacks hands and heads to work in Poland, and it is almost 2 or more than 2.5 million. Why is it missing? For a simple reason: over 2 million people of working age have been lost over the last 3 years, so they need to be replaced. We need to replace them with a hired force, one that's less qualified, more qualified. And it's very good that this bill is, very good that it gives these people the opportunity to come. But I was at the committee meeting yesterday, and there was something else I wanted to tell you. I noticed that bill tilted the scales a little bit. She gives them the opportunity of the workers who come, gives them a basic salary, regardless of who comes - it may turn out that a leser who doesn't know anything, and you have to pay him a basic salary - gives them the opportunity to come, choose an employer, gives you the possibility of not giving an address where they're going. Very well, because we want them to come. But the rulers, we create the right for Polish citizens, for Polish entrepreneurs, for those who create GDP here. So I ask you to remember this by creating such regulations, and in these regulations also to relieve Polish entrepreneurs. Because I don't think we've relieved them here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u329	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u330	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The legal solutions themselves go in the right direction, because the Polish labour market also needs foreigners, and shortening all these administrative procedures will probably improve the situation, especially in the sensitive months when you need hands to work in agriculture. But I'd like to ask you about one thing, which is an obstacle to a malfunctioning IT system. At our New Delhi facility, he could expect nearly 25,000. persons. Although employers ensure that they have the right permission and provide jobs, there you have to wait in line for almost 8 months. What is the reason for this? Are staff shortages or other obstacles (the Bell) that cause such a long waiting period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u331	Thank you very much, sir. Katarzyna Maria Piekarska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u332	Dear Marshal! Minister! Undoubtedly this is a law which has been long awaited by Polish entrepreneurs. After all, when it comes to our agriculture, hospitality, trade or transport, it is very difficult for these industries to do without foreign workers. So I have two questions to answer. First of all, how do you plan to support the staff offices that will deal with these requests? Because there will certainly be more of these proposals with this facilitation. Secondly, do you also see the problem of preparing schools? 'Cause if this employee's gonna be longer and be a good employee, he's gonna be a better employee if he's got a family with him. Are schools prepared for this? Do you think of a larger (Bingle) number of teachers who are educated towards teaching Polish foreign languages? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u333	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michael Urbaniak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u334	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Well, we are talking about a law that is to simplify the lives of foreigners in Poland once again. I'm not talking about how we're gonna make it more difficult, but at least let's keep some standards. Resignation from the residence requirement, if anyone is to have an extended stay, is not a thing that leads to a more stable and responsible migration. Your party won the 2015 election, among others. because you talked about having a responsible migration policy, and I feel like simplifying these rules right now. It's like closing your eyes, letting everyone in as they fly and no responsibility for what might happen in the future. We're not gonna agree on that. I am also not convinced by the fact that there is a pension problem (the bell) because we already have a situation in which, for example, today. Ukrainians can take pensions, they have the right to retirement even after working very short time, so they can earn money here and leave. We're not authorized to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u335	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u336	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the people who come to work for the farmers. Working in agriculture is very often or most often seasonal. These are fruit harvests, they're like, say, cuttings in orchards or some other kind of work that's done on a seasonal basis. Currently, a large proportion of workers who come to this type of work do not appear at all at the farmer's. That's way more than 50%. Those employees. They're moving to other industries. Is this not going to make things worse, as a result of these changes? Because in a relationship (the bell) with the lack of these duties, such as reporting, there will be more pressure for this employee to go elsewhere. Thank you very much, Marshal. Sorry about the extension.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u337	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Minister Bartosz Grodecki to answer questions. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Bartosz Grodecki: In the mask?]] You can take the mask off for comment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u338	Good. Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal! Honourable ladies and gentlemen, I've been asked some questions, but I see some of you have already left the O.R. Maybe I'll try to answer them one at a time. Mr Adamczyk's question about deadlines. In our view, the amendment on deadlines is an amendment which primarily makes these deadlines more realistic. It's been said here that 60 days is a long time. Remember, it's up to 60 days, it's not like on the 60th day the voivode makes that decision. Plus a certain period during which this decision should be taken. After the consultation, we decided that this deadline was appropriate. Let's make these terms real so that things don't happen... We can put 15 days in there, but what if that deadline isn't met, and the voivod will be flooded with reminders from the person who's waiting for it. So we made that term real, and it's not like it's going to last 60 days. We hope that this will continue as short as possible and that these decisions will be issued for up to 60 days. Mrs Krzywonos' question. Thank you for those. No, we're not considering such a change, because that would assume that we would have to accept that every person who works, for example. 2 years with the employer, she will continue to work with the employer. We don't know that because he might change his job to a better one or leave Poland at all. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: But I only asked if, in the case of a foreigner working with the same employer...]] This employer will have to report it in any way. It's like a visa. The visa is also given for a certain period of time and it is not automatically extended. You have to try for a new one. Here, we haven't considered such a change... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: I understand.]] ...because we would have to know from somewhere, and that would have to inform the office, which is to issue any kind of certificate in this regard. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: I understand, of course. Thank you.]] Mr Suchuni's question about the driver market, the logistics market. These changes concern each sector of the economy. It is not that we are directing these changes to some dedicated sectors of the economy. We assume that they will apply to everyone, including truck drivers or widely understood transport. Mr Tomaszewski's question about India. This is where I need to help and support my colleagues from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from the Department of Consulates. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs worked with us on this bill. As far as India is concerned, this is the ratio between demand and supply, i.e. The question of how many delegations we have there. We've got two. We have New Delhi and Mumbai and many willing to come in different modes to Poland. Another thing concerns the possibility for the consul to check whether the person arriving in the declared mode to Poland actually fulfils the conditions for arrival. I've been to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Consulate Department, so I can use these examples. If the school takes students from India to study, it does interviews on Skype, often without knowing who it is, because this person, on the other hand, legitizes a document that Skype doesn't see well, and claims to be somebody, and then this person lodges an application at the consulate, comes and is unable to say a word in English and goes to studies that will be conducted in English, then the consul has to take time to verify the application. In the case which I have quoted, it must issue a negative decision, because this person simply does not qualify, does not meet the conditions laid down in the rules for admission to school. This causes large queues to set up in front of consulates, because we must at least verify these visa procedures to a minimum. Hence the queues and hence perhaps the question of the Member. However, as far as I know, the Indian direction will, I hope, be strengthened by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as far as the consular component is concerned. Mrs Baker's question, but she's not here. Nevertheless, I will answer. As far as the staff support of the voivodship offices is concerned, it has already happened. Voivodship offices have been Supported by staff. But let us not forget that this is only one order. It means that we can give money to work, but we also have to hire people. These people must be willing to work under conditions presented by the voivods in the service of foreigners, which is not a simple job. But this has already happened, and the staff of the voivodship offices are strengthened enough to deal effectively with legalization cases in our assessment. On the other hand, with regard to schools, these facilitations, which we introduce in the provisions of this law, will not cause any sudden wave that we cannot cope with. This means that we do not have information, and we do not see that our Polish schools have any absorption problems when it comes to receiving children from foreigners to schools. It's just happening. However, as I said at the outset, we do not anticipate any sudden surge of people wanting to work on the Polish labour market. This is rather a change that improves these procedures here and now and for those people who are already actually on the Polish market. Mr Urbaniak of the Confederation asked about security and raised the question of address in the proposal. In the application, the foreigner gives the address anyway, because we have to send the decision somewhere. On the other hand, we do not want this to be a necessary condition for him to show what his legal title is when it comes to possession of this property. This is not a condition that seems necessary for us to issue such a certificate. Please also take into account the fact that any foreigner seeking any form of legalization of the stay is checked by the appropriate services: ABW, Police and Border Guard. Such verification shall take 30 days and may be extended to 60 days in justified cases. I therefore understand that these security procedures are sufficient to ensure the safety of this process, but also national security. Mr Wojciechowski's question. No, this law does not regulate the movement of workers between employers. We would have to introduce a system that almost assigns an employee to an employer. I guess that contradicts the free market rules a little bit. It means that if an employee comes to an employer and finds a better job, it is his right to change the employer. So these rules don't regulate it. Although we have indeed heard that there have been such situations, especially in the agricultural sector, that workers have flowed from farm to farm, because they had more paid there. I hope that these facilitation procedures, which we are introducing, will naturally regulate this situation because things are simply going to be done faster and easier. Thank you very much, Marshal, thank you, Madam Members, for listening. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u339	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury (prints No 1677 and 1688). I would like to ask Mr Robert Telus to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u340	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! I have the honour to present to you the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury, print No 1677. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 37 and Article 37 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). On 26 October 2021, 40 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed this draft law to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for their first reading. The Commissions on 28 October 2021 considered the project and asked the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Ladies and gentlemen! So much for this formula, which is very important, it needs to be presented. But I would also like to say two words about this law. This law is a very important law, it is a very big step, a mileage step in creating a holding company. A holding company that is expected by farmers, a holding company that is expected to help in the entire food chain, a holding company that is to be a battery in terms of prices. Because we know that very often at the moment because of the fact that processing as well as mediation in Poland is primarily in the hands of large private companies, mainly foreign companies... Because if they were Polish companies, I think it would be much easier, but they are usually foreign companies and companies that use their position and position very strongly, because they are strong companies in this whole food chain, they use the way that farmers pay very low prices primarily for soft fruit, but not only for soft fruit, but also for all agricultural products. It happens that a farmer brings his products to the market, and in fact even if he unloads his products, he doesn't know at what price the companies will pay. Therefore, there is a need for such a company in Poland, a state-owned company. It would be good if it was a state-owned company that would influence prices, and it would have an impact on buying. And that's what the holding company is for. The holding is established in the Ministry of State Assets and on the basis of a company of the Treasury, a sugar company. In order to create this holding, it is also necessary to transfer other companies which are now in the hands or in the management of the National Agricultural Support Centre, which is under the Minister of Agriculture. It is necessary to transfer these companies to the Ministry of State Assets, to transfer them just to create this holding. There was some doubt, legal doubt, whether, on the basis of this right which we have at this moment, it is possible to transfer the assets of these companies to the Ministry of State Assets, to another department, for the management of another department. In order to resolve this question, this draft law, a parliamentary bill, is introduced, which actually has only two articles, which in fact legally develops these doubts, that KOWR, the National Agricultural Support Centre, will be able to transfer the assets of those companies that are needed to create this holding company legally. That is why this bill is presented to the High House for resolution. As far as what was going on in committee, in the context of the committee's work report, there were, above all, no votes against here. There were many questions from the opposition, but these were really strict substantive questions which, I think, show that everyone takes this issue very seriously, to the formation of this holding company. The result of the vote was, of course, a large majority of 30 votes, 30 parliamentarians were behind this bill, but 8 Members abstained. Here we regret this fact, because on the one hand the Members of the opposition say that the holding company is very much needed, that this holding company should already be, why it is not yet there, and when it comes to what, when we go to such a specific one: I check, voting, either there are Members against or they are holding back. In this case, it was abstentions. That raises a lot of doubts. Although we are talking to Members who know that this holding is very much needed and that this holding company will help the Polish farmer, we see in the vote that it is different. What are we really regretting and regretting Polish farmers? The fact that something else is said, and the other thing is in action. Therefore, your marshal, High Izbo, on behalf of the committee, I ask that, as I have already read at the outset, this project be praised. He is good for the Polish farmer, he is good especially for these small farmers, he is good when it comes to strengthening the position of the farmer in the entire food chain so that the farmer can have more to say. To make that happen, that's the need. just such a company, such a holding company, which will help the Polish farmer. Because of these negligence, which has been for many years, because the fact that Polish factories, which were once Polish, were sold into the hands of foreign companies, of course it is the fault... [[Yeah, you sold apples. Minister Jurgiel sold the apple factory.]] [[Lucky for you.]] ... those who have allowed this in Poland so far, who have been responsible for Polish agriculture in several governments, because it is not only one government, but several governments so far... We fix this, we want to strengthen the position of the farmer, we also want to strengthen the opportunities for the Polish farmer to earn. Such an example of the fact that this is, however, the result, was the so-called case. Eskimo. I think the members of the Committee on Agriculture know what I'm talking about. [[100 million have lost the state.]] It was then that Minister Ardanowski made such a very far-reaching decision, a decision that was very necessary... [[The Treasury paid 100 million.]] ...and look, ladies and gentlemen, what happened that day. Apples that cost 9 gr at the fruitors, all of a sudden, but it all of a sudden, from day to day after holding, I mean, not holding, just Eskimos... [[That's not true. That's not true.]] ...the company began buying at the request of Minister Ardanowski, then the price of apples rose to 30, and even in some places thirty pennies. [[That's not true. The line's changed. That's not true.]] This shows that intervention on the market is necessary, of course intervention of the state institution, of the Polish institution, maybe not entirely national, but Polish. [[100 million KOWR paid.]] It hasn't been for many years, and that's why this holding company is so much needed. I would like to stress this once again, because here the Member is screaming so hard: it is not true, it is not true. [[The Eskimo scandal.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you did not allow these Polish factories to go into private hands, into the hands of foreign companies, this problem would not be a problem, but you allowed companies, companies, factories to be sold to foreign companies. [[But it was Ardanowski who let us sell the largest apple factory.]] In fact, today it decides the price of agricultural products for farmers, not farmers, but those companies that you have allowed. [[Yeah, the PiS allowed the apple factory to sell.]] With this bill, with the creation of this holding company, we're gonna fix it and fix it. Of course it can't be fixed by one law, it can't be fixed by one holding company, but when it comes to what you lost for many years, we lost as Poland, because of your actions we are fixing it. And that's what we've been doing for six years to just... [[We mean who?]] [[Six years.]] For six years, you have been right, six years. We've been fixing what you've ruined for six years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And it didn't work out for you. It's getting worse in agriculture. And the Eskimo cost 100 million.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u341	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u342	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury, Parliamentary Printing No 1677 and 1688. The purpose of this law is to enable the Minister responsible for State assets to transfer shares or shares from the national centre to the Minister for State Assets at the request of the Minister for State Property. It should be added that this draft law has a positive socio-economic impact, does not generate financial implications both for the state budget and for local authorities. The Law and Justice Club asks the High Sejm to pass a procedated bill in print no. 1688. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u343	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club regarding the draft law on printing no. 1677. [[Game in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, please calm down. I'll quickly remind you of the history of not having a national food holding company. Listen, sir. PiS promised to build a holding company as early as 2015. These promises were made publicly by Krzysztof Jurgel. After 2 years his successor Krzysztof Ardanowski repeated this promise. Thus, on 16 November 2018, a proxy for the use of the product was established. the establishment of a national food holding company. For several months a specially employed employee received a salary of tens of thousands of PLN. In addition, on 20 November 2018, a team was set up to develop the concept of the creation of the National Food Group, read: holding. For tens of thousands of zlotys, a company was hired to find another one that would create a business plan for a national food group. For all these activities the Treasury spent hundreds of thousands of PLN. Minister Ardanowski's actions on the issue of the holding company were best summed up by Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel, and I quote: Playing a policy of words rather than actions, public announcements of actions that were mostly not carried out. A flagship example is the multiple announcement of the creation of a food holding company, then a food group that has never been realized. Krzysztof Jurgel. No wonder the holding company's mission was transferred to the Ministry of State Assets and fun, of course, for taxpayers' money, started over. Since February 2020, there have been more teams, advisors, presidents and, indeed, taxpayers' money. What did PiS bring us about the holding company after six years, today in this bill? Today we hear that the 1677 Print Act is an order change. A few days ago, on 10 November 2021, in the Senate, the new Minister of Agriculture, Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, speaking of this law, said: As far as food holding and strategic companies are concerned, it should be treated more as capital participation, security. What does that mean? The answer is very simple, High Izbo. This bill is another leap of the United Right into state money. Here's the idea. Listen well, sir. The participation of the best companies supervised by KOWR will take over the holding company and KOWR will receive part of the holding company shares. Only that once the holding company acquires its shares, the State loses total control of the huge wealth of Poles. This bill is a simple way to extricate assets that will be placed under the management of fat political cats Agreement and God knows who. Isn't that enough? First you replaced all the board members of these companies, dozens of people, and now you're reaching for the assets of these companies? The nominal value of the shares of companies on which the United Right wants to lay hands is almost PLN 700 million. The total assets of these companies are over PLN 2200 million - government data. Finally, the profits of all these companies for 2020 are PLN 47 million. These companies have over 113 thousand. ha land, of which 5 thousand. ha is owned by these companies and the rest is leased. On this estate, these billions will soon put their hands on the next Bearers and activists of PiS-owscy. You claim that the assets of these companies are intended to secure the market operations of the holding company. In your opinion, the holding company is to break the price conspiracy. And this is where I want to remind you of the words of Deputy Minister Kowalczyk. You've already broken the price conspiracy in 2018. Then the intervention on the apple market was carried out by Minister Ardanowski. Do you know how much the Treasury lost on this intervention? 100 million PLN. You've already saved state money from dairy companies. I'll remind Bielmlek. The president was Senator PiS, Deputy Minister of Agriculture in your government, who is currently in custody. You know how much treasure he's lost? You guys on this help? 30 million PLN. We're not allowed to do this kind of politics. We're gonna keep an eye on every move related to the holding company, because I'm gonna remind you once again that it doesn't look like a bill that's been promised for six years and hasn't been done yet, but it looks like it's gonna cost money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u345	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Marcin Kulasek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u346	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Law and Justice have many iconic achievements. Millions of electric cars, construction of ferries by the shipyard in Szczecin, coal power plant in Ostrołęka. All these great investments have one thing in common: they have never been realised. You announced big projects, you made beautiful slides, and you didn't really do these things. Plus, there's another project: a national food holding company. How much was announced, how many work teams, how many consultants, how much all this cost money All of us, taxpayers, how many ministers, State Secretarys, Undersecretaries of State were involved in this project, taking part in this project as bars... The effect is and was the same: zero. Now the Members of the PiS have presented to the High House a draft law aimed at transferring responsibility for the creation of a national food holding company to the arms of the Minister of Assets. Is this gonna work? As the old saying says, at the word Sasin, rely on it as a hangover. [[It's like a holding company.]] None of the three PiS agriculture ministers managed to create a holding company. It is logical to conclude that missions from the category: mission impossible will entrust your strategic staff reserve to Prime Minister Sasin. The idea of creating a national food holding company around the National Sugar Company is based on rational assumptions. Are these the reasons behind entrusting this mission to Prime Minister Sasin? I only have one request: be economical. Don't throw millions into Western consulting companies, don't create new sons. Remember, you're running a public penny, and 70 million is a lot of money. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Left Club will vote against the message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u347	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. [[Stefan, fire!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u348	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives towards the parliamentary bill amending the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury, prints no 1677 and 1688. The opposition doesn't seem to be against it. It is not our role to find the tools on the basis of which the holding should be built, because it is the government that takes responsibility for it, only by observing it already for the six years when they were the first assurances that the holding would rise, that it would support farmers, that it would collect surplus from the market, that it would shape prices... Only, Minister, the question is, how many percent of the market would you have to focus in your hands so that you could shape such a price? 10% , 20%, 50% 100% or 100% ? What did you do on the way? 'Cause there's actually been a lot of possibilities. It is the acquisition of the Dairy Cooperative Bielmlek for debts towards the State Treasury. It should already be a bet, a grocery company. It should work, and today it burned down, the president, your senator is in custody today, but it doesn't change the fact that the bet is ruining. Winter will come, everything will fall down. That's how you support it. Rypin fell down on the way. I mean, it could have all been in the holding company today. Further, many private companies that gave jobs bought products from the market. They're gone. They are also friends of government representatives and Members of the United Right, who have deceived many farmers. No one called them in for criminal responsibility. Many examples of such companies could be multiplied. Unfortunately, it didn't work. This is another project. As I said from this speaker that the CPK is Kaczyński's central laundry, because nothing was created, but plenipotentiaries, companies, your companies make huge money on it, so again it will be a state milking house - a milking shop, a milking shop for farmers. Because what's the deal with taking over those shares? Beautiful farm in Zachodniopomorskie voivodship, Nowielice. There's a horse stud, but there was cattle breeding. It's all been sold by your director. Today there is a plant crop, some meadows that should actually be a feed base for cattle, but today subsidies affect the account, and in a moment, so that it is not visible how your next specialist has placed another company, it will be transferred to the Ministry of State Assets, Sasin. And so he juggles his money to hide the actual state of debt, the state of finance, and so he moves. Now maybe we'll have to transfer some company quickly. More and more disturbing information is coming in about Minikov. They're your people again. The farm, which was exemplary, agricultural advisory center, a place famous for many exhibitions, with many big events for all who are interested in agriculture, work in this industry, in this area of agriculture. In a moment we may also have to pass it on, say: we build a holding company, it is necessary, necessary, quickly pass it on, and we will manage. You wanted to build a holding company? There was no better situation than when Tesco sold his stores in many cities. Today should be at least as many as old voivodships, shops concentrated in the hands of this already famous, promised holding company. There, people throughout the country should be able to buy a cheaper product, directly in a dairy cooperative, in a small meat plant. This is supposed to happen. But that's not there because you're champions in promises. If it comes into action, it's a scam that drives the scam. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will not support you, but we will support this change. But we're gonna look at your hands and, of course, we're gonna be showing you that we were right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u349	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u350	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If the holding company were to actually improve the situation of Polish agriculture, you would have set it up in 2015. But since he's really going to buy some more votes in the country, you're calling him now that your support is falling and you're getting ready for the next election. That is the truth, sir. We could talk a lot about privatisation of the processing industry here. Hortex was privatized during AWS, I remember, and this was a group co-created by many PiS politicians. Morawiecki, your current Prime Minister, was the councilman of AWS, so who is responsible today for privatising part of the industry important from the point of view of the Polish village and the farmer? You hit your own chest, not yell at us because when you privatized all those holdings, I didn't even think about politics yet. As for this bill, this is the best proof that you can't even normally establish a holding company, approach it in an entrepreneurial way, write a good bill, come with it to the Sejm, put it on the table and appoint a holding company. This bill needs to be amended again at least a few times. You wrote it so that we have a major legal conflict and the Minister of State Assets cannot even have from KOWR the transferred land which is in the agricultural property resources of the Treasury, because it turns out that in practice the execution of this activity is contested, is incompatible with the generally applicable law. Therefore, 460 Members of the Sejm - and then the senators, the Sejm committees - will have to gather again and discuss a simple, ordinary law establishing the holding company, because you could not correctly write ordinary, simple rules so that they would not interfere with the rules of universal law. We do not believe that the situation of the Polish farmer will improve, because you have promised it for 6 years, and the profitability of agricultural production in Poland is deteriorating. The situation of the average Polish farmer is increasingly difficult. This is due to the COVID, but also generally the worse position in the production and supply chain. For the past six years, I've had a farmer's mummy say something's gonna change. You are screaming that you are the main representative of the village in Parliament, and the farmer's situation is getting worse. Therefore, your support in the countryside is falling, even in those places where, as you have said so far, there are your batons. That's the situation. Of course, we will support this change, because this is a simple editorial change, which is intended to enable another law to be implemented, in which effectiveness - as I said - on average we believe. You just can't do anything right, from A to Z. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u351	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a dilemma because this is a law that, on the one hand, you could say, is a technical law, but because of its simplicity it also clearly points to a certain political direction. Ladies and gentlemen! You gave it to the Prime Minister. Sasin's envelope election. We know how it ended. You gave it to the Prime Minister. Sasin's dispute with the Czech Republic about the Turks. We know how it ended. You also gave Prime Minister Sasin Ostrołęka and we know how it ended. It wasn't worth it, it really wasn't worth it. I think that today, once Prime Minister Sasin has been given a sasinada, or the European Games, let us no longer make this political decision. As a Confederate, we certainly don't want to prey on it. Do whatever you want. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u353	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward for the question? If not, I'm closing the list. First, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the justification, the owner of the land described in the project remains the State Treasury, and only the entity representing it is changing. Contrary to appearances, however, this is a very important change when land use is changed from agricultural land to undefined, strategically important industrial, military or other land. Shouldn't the Minister's request for a change in the qualification of land be preceded by a statutory obligation to obtain prior acceptance of geological services, environmental protection and all others whose consents and opinions may be relevant for future land use? We all know that some investments are planned for growth, so they can have a significant impact on the Polish food economy, which should nevertheless be left at the forefront of the strategic problems of our country. I would kindly ask the Minister to answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u355	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the Law of 19 October 1991 on the Management of Agricultural Property of the Treasury in Article. 5 after paragraph. 7. the following paragraph shall be added. 8 and 9. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 8 reads: "Where necessary for the implementation of the economic policy of the State, including the protection of the interests of the Treasury, at the request of the Minister responsible for State Assets, the National Centre shall, with the agreement of the Minister responsible for Rural Development, transfer the shares or shares referred to in paragraph to the Minister responsible for State Assets. 5. Minister! Or, if so, when does the Minister for State Assets intend to dispose of the assets received? If this is the case, where will the funds from these transactions go? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u357	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u358	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to ask: Will the process of creating a holding company be covered by an anti-corruption shield? I ask you this because this process has been going on for many years, the financial resources from the budget are coming up, you can't see the results. Therefore, there is a suspicion that this is what it is all about, that it should take time to remind about it in difficult times, when polls are not doing well, and that it will cause a short-term increase that helps to break this polling infirmity. As it is likely that in this very long process, which may never end, there will be many different irregularities, I ask: Will this process be covered by an anti-corruption shield, supervision of the relevant services, so that they do not go beyond the budget on this occasion? And since this may be the case with the rule of law and justice (the bell), I think we're all aware here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u359	Thank you, sir. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u360	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member of the representative of the applicants and it concerns the justification of this project. In the wording of the justification of the document on which we are proceeding, which I believe is a matter of competence and aimed at removing divergences in two laws - the Act on the National Agricultural Support Centre and the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury - you indicate that the draft law has a positive social and economic impact. I would therefore ask that these advantages be indicated and that the rules on which these benefits have been calculated should be clarified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u361	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u362	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What funds from the National Recovery Plan will go to the holding company? How many new Misiewiczs and how many fat cats will absorb the food holding? And have you already compiled lists of PiS activists and members of their families who will find employment in a national food holding company? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u363	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u364	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What are the guarantees that the State Treasury will not lose control of strategic companies, including the state land at its disposal? And I answer the question when it comes to talking about apples. Mr PiS allowed this to happen on 15 June 2018, the largest apple processing plant in the history of Poland - Appol - was sold. He was buying 2,000. t apples a day. All your intervention, that's $250,000. t, had no impact on the market. And you allowed the greatest processor of Polish apples to go into Chinese hands. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u365	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask: Is the Government of Law and Justice going to own State Treasury companies supervised by the National Agricultural Support Centre? Let me remind you that these companies lease about 100,000 from the State Treasury. ha agricultural land. And will the holding company use their assets to borrow commercial loans after a possible decision to expropriate these companies? Can these loans be directed to the operating activities of the holding company or to other purposes? Because from practice, we know that money travels very quickly. And we are increasingly wondering when this process (the bell) is moving away, where is the interest of the Polish farmer. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u367	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u368	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture said that you have been building Polish agriculture for six years. You build so much that not more than a year ago we tried here over anti-agricultural law, five Kaczyńskis, for which farmers named you by name: traitors of the Polish village. Today you say you're gonna rebuild it. Then try to rebuild it. Only, Minister, I want a written reply: How much has this holding company cost us? Since 2015, you have tried to do this, Minister Ardanowski in Spala said that he is already, already created, were preparing business projects. So how much money has been spent and how much money will you spend on the holding company in the near future? I hope that it will be money spent effectively, not just to create more profitable (Bingle) functions and positions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u369	Thank you, sir. That was the last question. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Simon Giżyński to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u370	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! If you compare today's deliberations with your discussion... These voices can be easily grouped into those which, in some sense, at least partly concerned - like Mrs Hennig-Kloski's voice - the matter of the law and what it undisputedly and quite undisputedly assumes and brings. There were a few voices like that. Of course, in the area of charges, in fact, to a great extent insinuating the sphere. But the majority of the votes were abstracted at all from the matter of the bill. The bill was somewhere completely on the side, behind this room, above and beyond reality, because it was about something completely different. You know perfectly well why this holding company will appear on the market of one, I hope, already a very close day. It will appear as a intervent, and it will be a victorious intervent, for Polish agriculture and Polish farmers. Who's he gonna face? It will face foreign capital, with the owners of large factories, such as those who have intercepted the priceless components of Polish state wealth from the 1990s and have ruled it to this day. Contrary to what one of the previous speakers said, Mr Stefan Krajewski, it is not so that one has to build a giant machine, e.g. equivalent capital to fight a winning battle with a foreign capital advantage. No, what you're talking about here, of course, by wailing, because everything we're doing is not true... As in 2018, we managed to shake things up in small ways, as Mr Robert Telus spoke very meaningfully and very specifically on this example... A relatively small capital commitment was enough to make very real, meaningful, cost-effective for Polish sadists, for Polish processors... So there's a price on the market. At that time, of course, it was about apples. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of ASF, the state has been giving examples just outside the industry that we are currently dealing with, i.e. outside the sector that the holding will be dealing with - after all, food and established for a well-known purpose. So let me remind you that in the same year 2018, when I started working at the Ministry, there were a number of ideas, among others. It's just that we should be interested in... It is about the ASF market, which was not created by us, but it was programmed and implemented against the interests of the Polish state as a team and a system of connected spheres of interest, heavy money that was made by foreign processors and then not only by aliens, but by some on this side. They made money from rendering companies, made money from big industrialists who went into the bio-insurance industry miraculously and fluently, made money from networks, because in all these pathologies they put themselves in, of course, they made an overlay fattening, because they also got into pathologies and imbalances that were unfavorable for Polish farmers. So it's a business matter. It's a special context. I interfered to give another example that it was enough to announce briefly for a few days, but reliable, reliable that we would interfere as a state in the rendering industry... Now that some ASF costs are necessary, because pork carcases have to be disposed of, let it be done in some way by the state. Ladies and gentlemen, German analysts, because here the German industry had a very large advantage - or: foreign and not Polish - they first announced that the ASF has such prospects in Poland and will do so well under their management - these big companies and big financiers - that it should be predicted for the coming years that it will be about PLN 30 billion of turnover. We need to invest in this industry. The slight announcements from the Polish state, the Ministry of Agriculture, that we will enter into this, caused that in such a large amount of capital investing, even more supporting the rendering industry did not appear. So the consequences are important, but the consequences are the will and consequence, not some mythical money. Ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in this Chamber at the moment, of course, does not apply to the law, because it is simple, obvious, formal, intentions are obvious; it is completely legal to prevent any question from being made so that there is no gap in any voluntaryism or any other suspicion. So it's out of the question, and some of you have admitted it. Some admitted it officially, and the other part, the more powerful, had already gone completely in denial. It was that the state most - I apologize for the term, but it does not have any aesthetic meaning - they attacked the law, not the law, but the holding. [[Voice from the room: Your inability.]] They just attacked the holding company. Why? Because the holding company will appear on the market as an intervening investor in defence of Polish interests, in defence of the interests of Polish farmers, Polish processors. [[Applause]] [[When's he gonna show up?]] You're the one who's hurting the most. Why? Because in your good times you were installers of this industry and later ASF, just one which so far dominates in Polish processing and thus in Polish agriculture. Installers of foreign capital from those old times by the fact that the state is attacking the holding company today, attacking Polish interests. You are still here because your attachment has not changed, on the other side, contrary to Polish interests. [[We are against your looting, Minister.]] I'm asking you to calm down. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Simon Giżyński: Sir, ladies and gentlemen, if you are equipped with evidence, not only with insinuation, which in politics is going through, because you can splash and sit for it, if you are equipped with evidence, go ahead. [[Mr Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: The Minister does not answer our questions.]] There's prosecutors, there's prosecutors, there's courts, they're waiting for these innuendoes to end up where they belong. Because in public, it's being picked up instantly by the press, the media, and the others, and it's all getting away with it. But let this confrontation be formal, because it's gone. Ladies and gentlemen, what I have provided here makes sense of the creation of this holding company, both positive, i.e. one which is supposed to give Polish agriculture a chance, as well as negative, which allows to eliminate all negative trends and negative situations controlled by capital, which has nothing to do with Polish interests. I repeat once again: the holding company is on the Polish market and will be designed as a strong intervent. And that is the philosophy of this idea, and that will be its effectiveness. As to the questions, fortunately, I am in such a situation that the State who spoke asked questions of a completely formal nature relating to at least precisely named problems. The Polish state will not lose control of the holding company, because as far as the shares of the National Sugar Company are concerned, 79,69% shares are held by the Treasury and 20.31% are present and former employees and sugar beet growers. So it can be assumed that this is Polish capital, and the state capital in these less than 80%. Please note that the companies that will appear at the National Sugar Company will only increase - because these are all companies with a 100% presence of state capital - the share of State shares of the State Treasury in this percentage weight. Ladies and gentlemen, there have also been questions that will, and quickly, be answered in writing, all the more so since, for absolutely formal reasons, a decisive part, perhaps even overwhelming, of these questions was addressed to the Ministry of State Assets. Of course, we will pass on all these questions because they concerned a different ministry than what I am representing at the moment, and of course the addressee will answer your questions precisely. So we won't lose any control. The majority of the State Treasury's participation today is ensured in this initial process and will be through this mechanism which I have shown, only strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen, I was in the mood to ask you to do a little bit of slaving and fantasy and malice here, but because some of your arguments or rather aggressive, demagogical fantasies far exceeded the possibility of any physical, substantive contact with the sphere of arguments, not even benevolent, with evil intentions, but sticking to, at least in part, reality, here the contact stops and therefore my voice stops, and malice, mockery and state, and I will refuse myself. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u371	Thank you very much. I would like the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Robert Telus.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u372	Dear Marshal! Minister! I am very surprised because in the committee the discussion was very substantive and the opposition Members' questions were really substantive. What happened? Has there come another message from the party that you have to criticize that you have to be against? I don't get it. I'm really shocked that it's such a very important issue when it comes to holding - and I think you even agree that it's an important thing - and today so many negative words. I think farmers listen to us and watch us and will remember that the Members of the Left, and the Liberals of the Civic Platform, the Left Liberals of the Civic Platform... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Don't insult us, sir.]] Let me remind you that you are the rapporteur of the committee, Mr President. Excuse me? I just wanted to remind you that you are the rapporteur of the committee and that you are acting in this role. Your marshal, as draftsman of the committee, I have already spoken, and now I answer the questions that have been asked. As the draftsman of the committee. That's what I wanted to remind you of. Yes, as rapporteur for the committee, I answer the questions that Members have asked in the Chamber. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Then don't insult us.]] And I don't understand that you're against it. Mrs Niedziela said that the United Right wants to lay a hand. I'll be honest with you, yes. The United Right, the Polish government wants to lay a hand, not the way you've been screaming everything so far. I want to remind you that you sold everything: and the processing plants, and the Hortexes, and the companies that did the buying. This is not enough, I want to remind people, because you remember this, to those who listen to us today, that 2 months before you gave up power, privatized, gave up, sold PKP Energy and at the moment we have in Poland such a situation that the tracks are Polish, and the whole energy industry in Poland is sold in foreign hands because you sold it. You guys just wanted to sell. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: But what does this have to do with what we're talking about?]] No, it has nothing to do with you, Madame, that you have sold everything that moves. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: I did not sell anything. I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[You can't listen to that.]] I'm asking you to calm down. And we want... Mr President, I am so sorry. You were supposed to answer questions, and I would very much like you to do so, because you are now answering not as a member of law and justice, but as a draftsman of the committee. Your Marshal, as rapporteur for the committee, I answer the questions that Members have asked. That's what they were talking about, which is why I have the right to answer these questions. [[Voice from the room: Tell about the Eskimo, not about the PKP.]] For questions, yes. Mrs Niedziela said: we do not agree to such a policy. Well, yes, I agree with that, your consent to it being Polish and to be in Polish hands, to be state-owned, is not there. We know that, and I think the Poles know that too. Somehow I was very surprised by the voice of the PSL Member, who said the same thing: that it would be a state milking house. Mr President, certainly not PSL-owska, because you have already bought what you were about to buy, I do not want to remind you of groups... I recently visited one of the fruit groups near Rawa Mazowiecka. A large apple sorting plant, large apple warehouses, which one of the PSL's promenades that has fallen at the moment. [[Voice from the room: Now will be the PiS-owska milkmaid.]] They were built with our money, Polish money: 180 million. Right now, the syndicate wants to sell for $30 million because they fell because you took over everything. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[So is Bielmlek.]] [[Mr Krzywonos-Strycharska: Mr Krzywonos-Strycharska, you were to answer questions.]] I answer the question about the state milking house, as you said in your PSL Member. Mr Urbaniak said - I hope he is listening - about the Sasin Prime Minister. Mr President, I know you have national views. [[But Sasin's not here.]] You know very well that Prime Minister Sasin is a great national. This is a man who cares about national interests. He's taking care of the national business. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] You know this, Mr Sasin, that Mr Sasin wants it to be Polish. This attack on Prime Minister Sasin on your part is personally incomprehensible to me. To be honest, the most substantive question here was the question of Mrs... [[Member of Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Krzywonos.]] No. No, no, no. Mrs Iwona Maria... [[Member of Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Kozłowska.]] ... Kozłowska. I'm sorry I forgot. She asked a question about benefits and that is a very good question. Madam President, I have already mentioned this law and its benefits at the beginning, but if you ask me, I will say it a second time. Polish farmers are waiting for this bill. Why are they waiting? That's because there's a need for intervention. There is a need for intervention on the buying-in market, because at the moment all processing, trade in Poland has foreign companies. And so little was needed - I already mentioned it, the actions of Minister Ardanowski - there was little need and suddenly the price of apples jumped from 9 gr to 30 gr. How much did Polish farmers, Polish Sadists earn? It is estimated that they earned about PLN 400 million on this tiny movement. And the money was just left not in the pockets of the companies, but in the Polish sadist. These are the benefits of this bill. That is why I thank you very much, Madam President, for this question, because I have an opportunity to talk about the benefits. I am aware that not everyone understands this because not everyone is involved in Polish agriculture. That is why I thank you very much for this really substantive and meaningful question. Mrs Krzywonos asked what was in the framework of the Polish Order. Madam President, let me put it simply: EUR 1200 million. EUR 1200 million. Once again: 1,200 million euros from Polish Łódź to Polish processing. It's never been like this. That was not the case, because you did everything you could to sell Polish processing, and you did it. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: Please do not say: you, because I did not do anything.]] I'm saying, you're the ones who've been in charge so far, the Civic Platform. I heard she was in charge in Poland. Poles remember this and will remember it because you have led to the fact that many Polish assets have been sold. EUR 1200 million is for Polish processing, to rebuild what you have been destroying for many years. I know, Marshal, that you're upset because I'm telling the truth, and these are things that, in some way, the Marshal also tells you, but I'm trying to answer the questions that were asked here. Thank you very much to Minister Simon Giżyński, because he has very nicely presented to you certain matters concerning this holding company and how much it is needed, how much it is expected. Mr PSL said that it should have been built a long time ago. I agree with Mr Krajewski here. Of course, he doesn't listen to me right now, but I agree with Mr Krajewski. I, too, believe that this holding company should have been built much earlier and should have worked by now. And really don't bother, don't criticize, don't vote against... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...because this holding company is needed. Your action right now, your statements and your vote against it is an action aimed at keeping this holding company from arising. And if that's what you want... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It's what you're saying now that you clearly don't care. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Listening to these statements, I have such a strong impression that the opposition wants us to fail as Law and Justice, the opposition does not care about Polish farmers, it does not want us to do something for the Polish farmer, but does everything to ensure that the United Right does not succeed in this matter. But we will prove to you that even if you object, even if you scream so hard, we will do it because it is for Polish agriculture, and we are ready to do everything... [[Member of Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: Promises of promises.]] ...to repair what you sold in Polish agriculture, what you spoiled in Polish agriculture. That is why I thank you once again, Minister, for this bill, for preparing it together, even though it is a parliamentary law, but in agreement with the Ministry. I know she's very much needed. In fact, as you said, Minister, this discussion here was not about the law, it was about the law, it was not really about the provisions of this law, but it was good, because again we learned the opposition's opinion, we learned that the opposition is concerned with Poland's worst, because the worse it is in Poland, the better for them, the more they care about it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, once again as rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, because there really was this substantive discussion, I ask you to support this law, because it is really necessary for Polish agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u373	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets and of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on compensation for income lost by the municipalities in 2018 due to the change in the scope of taxation of wind power plants (prints 1676 and 1744). I would very much like to ask Mr Tomasz Ławniczak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u374	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on compensation for income lost by the municipalities in 2018 due to the change in the scope of taxation of wind power plants, contained in print No 1676. The above project entered the marshal's staff on 22 October 2021 and was directed by the Marshal of the Sejm on 26 October this year. to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for first reading. On 15 November, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the I would like to draw attention to the fact that the regulations proposed in the proposal aim at the implementation of the Constitutional Tribunal ruling of 22 July 2020, sygn. Act K 4/19. This judgment concerned the examination of the constitutionality of the Article. 17 point 2 of the Act of 7 June 2018 amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws to the extent that it has caused the effects of retro-treatment, i.e. the characteristics of retroactive legal standards, in particular as regards the revision of the definition of structures and the definition of wind power plants. In its judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that the Article was unconstitutional. 17 point 2 of the Renewable Energy Act to the extent that it infringes the principle of non-retroactivity, and obliged the legislator to undertake legislative work to develop a regulation to compensate the municipalities for the losses incurred as a result of the implementation of the Renewable Energy Sources Act. As a result of the analysis of the above mentioned above, the judgment of the Council of Ministers has decided to draw up a draft law dedicated to the units of the local government of the first level, as there are currently no provisions on the basis of which compensation payments could be made to the municipalities designated by the Court. Therefore, the implementation of the judgment of the Court can only be implemented by adopting the relevant draft resolution. The proposed deadline for payment of PLN 554 million is 2022. There were a few questions during the discussion, but no one has tabled any amendments to the proposed proposal. I ask the High House kindly to support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Ławniczak, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to add to that, because I will no longer duplicate what I said here, that it is not, as some think, a windmill law that introduced the 10H rule, but it is a revision of this law from June 2018, which introduced changes in the Construction Act - this is a definition of structures - and the law on wind power plants in terms of the definition of wind power plants. That's what caused the tax changes. The municipalities, when planning the 2018 budget, provided that they would receive income from real estate tax by charging real estate tax on wind power plants, and during the year, the Sejm made changes to the fact that power plants are not subject to this tax. The municipalities therefore appealed to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Tribunal delivered its judgment in June 2020. He's given it 18 months. This is simply the execution of this judgment. After a few speeches at the joint high committees, which concerned provisions proposed by the government bill, we came - at least that's what I felt - to the consensus. The discussion will show how the procedure will take place over the above law. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u375	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paul Pontylius, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We can't abstract from the source for the reasons we're dealing with this bill. This law is being dealt with because the Law and Justice Club voted in May 2016 in this House, which really killed wind energy on land. Wind energy development has been killed. Until today, no new permits have been issued for the construction of windmills or even an increase in the number of windmills on existing windmill farms in Poland. It is a law that has been in force in Poland since 2016. This law introduced the 10H rule: at a distance of less than ten times the height of a given windmill counted together with the arm cannot be placed such a windmill if there are buildings there. This means that almost 99% the site in Poland is not available for the construction of new windmill farms. The possibility to build these new farms and to thicken those that already existed has been blocked. Also according to the 10H principle, areas for building investments of a character were blocked. It's an apartment. These areas are blocked today, too. You can't build there. If anyone wants to build a house, knowing that within a distance of, say, a mile is a windmill... The tax revenue partly due to standing windmills was also deprived of the municipalities. In fact, today we are talking about a law that is not controversial, because it is known that the municipalities must be compensated for their losses, but compensation is granted only for the year 2018, in which Law and Justice has pushed through another law, so-called. The RES novel. The provisions of this law changed the definition of buildings in a curial way in the middle of the tax year. The windmill was no longer a building. Nevertheless, local governments have been charging real estate taxes since January. The amendment to the Construction Law on windmills has caused the local authorities to unduly levy part of the tax for 2018. And even though there was a problem in the debate in 2018 with the unconstitutionality of such solutions, we said that it should not be done during the tax year, that it should have worked since the next tax year, it was forcefully introduced. Today, in fact, Polish taxpayers have to add PLN 500 million to the municipalities that had to pay back to the owners of windmills money that had been unduly collected because the law changed in mid-2018. All this proves a complete mess and shows such political pressure to add to windmills. I understand that Law and Justice... Mrs Zalewska even campaigned on the occasion of wind farms. [[Voice from the room: Right.]] She told everyone it's wild that windmills are built wild. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] You did something Kononovich once announced in Bialystok. That's where the thought came from. The point is, there's nothing. No one questions the fact that the compaction of farms, the impudent placing of windmills on each farm simply because someone has agreed to accept a few thousand zlotys for the fact that the windmill will stand on its territory does not mean that it was necessary to destroy anything. One last thing. I urge the Minister to proceed as quickly as possible over a law that unlocks the construction of windmills in Poland. I know that the government is working on this issue. You argue with each other as in many cases (The Bell), but I urge you to work with determination and so quickly on unlocking wind energy, which is needed by the Polish energy mix. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u377	Thank you, sir. [[Paul, some coal, not...]] [[You're the coal guy.]] Please, Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u378	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Half a billion zlotys is another cost of a stupid, mindless, senseless energy policy of the Polish state, the policy of the country on which everyone loses. They lose local governments, they lose entrepreneurs, they lose local communities, and they lose our budget. In fact, we taxpayers will pay for government mistakes. Not the government, not the ministers, not those who have passed harmful, unconstitutional laws. At this cost, Poles' pockets and Poles' pockets are charged, and this PLN 0.5 billion is still not enough, because they do not include either inflation or the costs of the loans that the municipalities had to take. This PLN 0.5 billion is the cost of compensation for 200 municipalities for wrong law and cardinal errors. But Prime Minister Morawiecki says today that we have the money. So what's the problem with throwing them in the mud? Here 0.5 billion for compensation, there more than 2 billion PLN for Ostrołęka, here every day 2 million for Turów. We already have PLN 135 million and the clock is still ticking. No wonder they're galloping energy prices. [[Through the European Union.]] No wonder the fight against energy poverty has become a total disaster in Poland. The government's shoes and stupidity pay people today with high bills and self-governments extra costs and problems. Energy policy is an area of record losses, record incompetence, daily bread of the Polish government. We're extremely expensive for PiS' stupidity. The fight between the Polish government and windmills is extremely expensive. The symbol of a stupid, destructive policy will remain the statement of Minister Zalewska, a messenger of a symbol fighting windmills, which basically led to the freezing of the windmill industry... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...and who argued against the RES from the wind on land: I don't want a helicopter the size of a bus to fall on my head one day. We feel the impact of a policy based on fear of a propeller the size of a bus falling on our heads every day and we will feel it for many years. As a Left, we support this project because we recognise the legitimacy of paying compensation for a law that was contrary to the Constitution, but we do not support throwing money into the mud, a stupid, mindless policy based on prejudice, a lack of coordinated action, a burden on taxpayers' pockets of irresponsible rulers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Polish coal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u379	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u380	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, Marek Biernacki the position of the club on the draft Print Act No. 1676 on the compensation of revenues lost by the municipalities in 2018 due to the change in the scope of taxation of wind power plants. The law on which we are proceeding today is the consequence of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2020, namely the 22 July to which the protests were brought, the conclusions of the municipality council of the Świecie nad Osa and the municipality council of Kobylnica to examine the compatibility with the Constitution of the regulation providing for the retroactive application of the provisions giving new wording to the definitions of structures and wind power plants. These applications have been covered by the Constitutional Tribunal by a common signature of the K4/19 - if anyone wants to know, I give a numbering. But I'm back in history. The distance law, as it was called, increased the taxation of wind power plants in 2016 with a property tax constituting the sole income of the municipalities. Previously, this tax was paid only on the construction part and accounted for 30% of the turbine value. Since 2017, the property tax has also been imposed on the technical part. This solution was abolished retroactively in 2018 - since the beginning of 2018. - as incompatible with the international obligations of Poland. However, the municipalities have already taken account of the increased revenue in their budgets and have therefore planned a correspondingly higher expenditure. Therefore, they were deprived of the expected revenue because they had to repay the unduly collected tax for 2018. This, in turn, caused that they could not make many investments previously planned and could not benefit, for example. from various projects carried out from the European Union. For example, Darłowo village lost about PLN 15 million for this reason. As a result of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal which ruled that the Article was unconstitutional. 17 point 2 of the RES Act, the legislator must today make compensation for local governments. This compensation concerns about 200 municipalities in which wind power plants are located. This compensation is intended to amount to PLN 524 million. These appropriations will be paid to local authorities after appropriate applications have been submitted to the voivodeship under the special reserve of the State budget in 2022. High Izbo! After reading this bill, knowing that nowadays every penny and every zloty for the local government is important, we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u381	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u382	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! This bill is the best example of how the PiS government can waste citizens' money by actually burning it, because otherwise it can't be called. It is a mechanism of bad lawmaking from start to finish, with no respect for ordinary, economic or legislative practices, for which today the state budget must pay PLN 0.5 billion, and in fact if from the state budget, it is actually the pocket of citizens, because our budget is more than 90% tax, which is made up of citizens. What's he talking about? The fact that we will give to local governments lost income resulting from the property tax paid from wind power plants in 2018. It's been translated here. First, the Law and Justice Government increased the taxation of wind turbines by increasing the scope of this taxation. Later, international companies applied to arbitration courts because they did not agree to the retroactive effect of such a law. This was treated as a change of rules during the game. Since the government did not want to pay huge compensation from the state budget, the law has changed backwards. The local governments, although they had it planned in their budgets, did not get the money, and as the Member said here, they could have spent it already, they could have planned it, because the legal basis was for it. We're gonna give it back today. It is a good thing that this will be passed on to local governments in this case. I hope that these funds will be well spent, for important investments or for the implementation of their own tasks. Two questions. I received one reply from the Minister at the committee meeting. It's about inflation. Since 2018, this money has lost value. Why aren't you charging any extra interest? The Constitutional Tribunal did not speak of this in its judgment, but also did not know when and under what economic conditions, or inflation conditions, this judgment will be executed. The second question that the Minister did not want to answer at the committee meeting, which I would like to return to. The municipalities fear that the return of these unpaid taxes on these poorest, poorest municipalities will affect the loss of Janosk next year. Did the government calculate it, notice the problem? Of course, the project itself will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u383	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u384	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to note that the municipalities take care of their interests and sue the Polish state for compensation. However, the Confederation raises the question: When will the Polish state take care of its interests and sue the European Union for the losses we have suffered by installing these wind farms? The cost of electricity from wind power plants is much higher, even after counting that we charge additional taxes on coal. Moreover, the current from wind power plants is, in short, energy waste. This is something that interferes with the operation of the energy system, because if the wind blows, you have to turn off normal generators as they stop - you have to turn them on. This is a disruption of the system, not aid. We should draw much, much more money from the European Union than from the Polish state. Of course, the error made by the fact that the municipalities are pulling money from us is that the state has even interfered in the energy sector. Because in a normal country it is one building a wind power plant, the other - photovoltaics, the third - coal power plant, the fourth - water power plant, the fifth - some other power plant, e.g. It's nuclear. And, ladies and gentlemen, whoever produces the cheapest and best, wins. You're not involved in this at all. Then the municipalities would have no one to take money from, no one to demand it from, because they simply founded a capitalist or closed it - that's their problem. Here, on the other hand, this claim of the municipalities arises from the fact that this country has taken on energy policy rather than simply left it to the market. Because market action, ladies and gentlemen, means fulfilling people's wishes: not industrialists, not bureaucrats, just consumers. We forget one thing: that the purpose of production, here electricity, is the good of the consumer, not that electricians have a job, capitalists have a profit, and politicians can decide whether to put the power plant here or there. This must be remembered - about the consumer. Because the purpose of production is consumption. The consumer is not an addition to the manufacturer. This is forgotten because we carry out demands of people of work, capitalists, and forget about the basic element of the economy - the recipient. So that I would like to conclude by asking the government to consider asking the European Union for enormous compensation for these ideas with windmills and other renewable energy sources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u385	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? You're welcome. I'm closing the list. According to tradition, the first question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left. One minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u386	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fulfilling this tradition, I would like to ask about this law. Namely, in my opinion, this law is a lack of consistency created by the Government of Law and Justice of the Law. In 2018, a law passed by the Sejm, which rightly amended the rules of taxation of buildings connected with the production of wind energy. However, despite the numerous lessons from local governments, the issue of lost revenue was then ignored. I will ignore the question of how local governments are to carry out the task entrusted to them if the government responds to their problems with such delay. On the other hand, I would like to ask from this point of view whether these issues have been adequately addressed in the twin tax exemption projects for buildings related to aviation or rail infrastructure. Have the local authorities been guaranteed adequate compensation, or have the local authorities been once again treated as a stepmother? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask you kindly to answer in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u387	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left. Are you an MP? There isn't. This is Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Some local authorities had to make commitments in order to cover the loss of income due to the change in the scope of taxation of wind power plants. The liabilities relate to interest. During the public consultation, the association of Wielkopolska municipalities requested that consideration be given to the possibility of extending compensation to the cost of interest. You have written back that this cannot be covered and implemented, and here I quote: because of the complex situation of the state budget. And now I have a question: why don't you want to increase your compensation by the cost of interest? After all, the Prime Minister everywhere says that our budget has a surplus. So what do these surpluses mean, and to whom will they be passed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u389	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We forget where the problem of wind farms in Poland came from. He came from here that a lot of western European trash came to Poland during the windmill boom. [[Applause]] [[Sir, have you seen this piece of shit?]] Yeah, I saw that piece of shit. Multiple times. And I've seen it dismantle now and new windmills are forming... [[Where?]] [[Where?]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. But, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't bother you. Let me finish. [[Voice from the hall: These are lobbyists.]] At the moment the municipalities have already learned to put windmills, as well as entrepreneurs have learned that windmills can actually earn money. But for this it took two decades and some rules, which the Polish state only implemented in the years 2016-2019. That explains where the windmill problem came from today, and that's what we need to remember. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u391	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we only want to compensate for the losses of the municipalities for mid-2018, but on this occasion, I would like to remind you that the municipalities are still waiting for a draft law on amending the law on wind power plants, which was so noisy announced by Minister Emilewicz, and was still not presented by the Council of Ministers to the Sejm. And it was about the development of housing, i.e. the development of these towns. Hence my question: When will this project finally appear in the Seym? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u393	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Over PLN 500 million will be returned to the municipalities. This shows the scale of the problem. Income tax, real estate tax, from wind farms - over PLN 0.5 billion only in 1 year. This will unfortunately only be a rhetorical question: How many de facto lost municipalities from this tax, because the PiS government inhibited the development of wind energy in 2016? I'm sure the government doesn't have that kind of information, it's gonna be billions. By the way - because there is a chairman of the local government committee - that there is a municipality of Dobrzyń Wielki, which has been divided, has taken away its area of the town of Opole and this municipality cannot develop. Maybe she should be compensated for this, just as income lost is compensated for, for example. because of this, that when the missile shield was created in Redzików, the pole district was covered by such a mechanism. It is high time to settle this debt in relation to the municipality of Dobrzyń, because it cannot develop. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u395	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski. There's no envoy. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You killed completely wind power plants in 2016, even though this is the cheapest renewable energy. [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]] [[Voice from the room: Dearest.]] That's when you introduced the so-called. the 10H principle and the new definition of wind power plants, which resulted in a very high tax burden on their owners. I argued at the time that such high taxation would result in their complete elimination. In 2018, you granted me the right and you withdrew from the taxation of the entire wind power plant, which is the basis, tower and shovel, but of course you did it wrong. You have adopted a bill that works backwards, which is contrary to the constitution. Now, due to the recklessness of the government, Poles will have to spend more than PLN 524 million on compensation for the municipalities (the bell) for failing to introduce the law by this government. When will you finally present a bill restoring the possibility of building new wind power plants in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u397	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u398	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We all see and judge: chaos, mess, incompetence, proceding and pressing settings at night. It is an effect in the form of over PLN 0.5 billion, which affects 200 municipalities. It's a result of law and justice. When there's a big increase in electricity prices, when the law changes for prosumers, the Law and Justice government says, "Nothing's happened. It's done. You've wiped out your tax revenue to the local government, little of it, the local government loses money every day, because there are no more windmills built in their territory. Minister! I'm asking you, when are you going to launch our project? The Civil Platform project (The Bell) related to the construction of windmills on land. When are you gonna start this thing? When will you present your additional bill, which will open up the possibilities of building wind power plants and give Poles access to cheap electricity? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u399	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u400	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! PLN 524 million is the money that these local governments deserve. I just wish you hadn't thought about bringing it back for so long. Then they really gave up many investments, among others. road or plumbing. You weren't interested. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2016, you introduced a law limiting the possibility of building land-based wind farms. You've eliminated $5,000. jobs. I'm from West Pomerania, 1/4 of the wind power comes from West Pomerania and that's where these people worked. That money in a quarter goes to the West Pomerania. It's time to finally come to our senses and get back to land power, wind power. Really, these people, these communities, are entitled to a return to normality, which is why we will be in favour of voting for this law, but also in favour of unlocking it as soon as possible. It is a very bad law that you introduced (The Bell) in 2016. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u401	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u402	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law shows in a pill how the Law and Justice treats local governments, i.e. all inhabitants of smaller and larger municipalities throughout Poland, adopting many laws which clearly limit the income of local governments. This is probably just one of the tens of laws that Law and Justice adopted in the previous term. She reduced the revenue of local governments by PLN 0.5 billion. Such strikes were in many laws, unfortunately not much later goes to Parliament again to show and highlight this situation. Such laws were many and should not be so. We have no doubt about it. At that time, we also tabled amendments that were supposed to complete these defects, and Law and Justice rejected them. Today 0.5 billion PLN will be returned to local governments. I have a question: For what reasons will this amount not be valued (the bell), and why will it not include even the costs of loans that local governments had to borrow to cover this loss? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u403	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! That's a similar question. This bill has the title of compensation. I think that a much more appropriate title would be: partial compensation, as some of my previous speakers have said. It was 2016, it was a big hit in the local government. Not the first, not the last, another, one of them. So, first of all, inflation. Secondly, it seems that interest should be calculated on any sums lost unduly. That's not gonna happen either. So it's just partial compensation. The first question is: How are you going to compensate for this loss? Because it is and if it is covered by the local government, then we will cover it, I will cover it, you will cover the Member and the Member, just us, the people. So what's the full compensation gonna look like? And the second question about a certain philosophy of development (the bell) of farms and thus obtaining energy. There are discussions, great world meetings on how to save the Earth and how to save the climate. So far, I have not heard any constructive proposals from the government, but I have heard that these power farms cannot be developed. Perhaps the government has changed in view of the ongoing world debates... Finish it, Member. I'm almost done. The government may have changed its mind, but I'd like to hear about it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u405	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke. I don't see your MP. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u406	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We have a good system in Poland, slightly unique in Europe, and it is good that we have a division of power: state power and local government. I see in recent times that there is no respect for local government, because there are often not ours, because often someone else rules, and yet the system works. Constitutionally, if the law introduces financial changes and loses the local government, there should be compensation from the vending machine. Not by a tribunal, not by some state institution, but by a vending machine. Can we not develop such a system that when a law enters into which takes some part of the revenue or revenue of the local government, it is immediately included in it that the State compensates for this loss? There are government and self-government committees, and it can be regulated there. When there is a difference in valuation, when local government wants more, and the government says that there (the bell) will give less, then you can set up a state arbitration commission. Maybe we could settle this once and for all. Let every bill that enters the Sejm and takes away the local governments also introduce... Thank you very much. ...compensating on their income. Thank you. [[Why didn't you bring it in when you were in charge?]] Because we ruled a long time ago. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But it wasn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u407	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u408	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, As a result of the introduction of ideological solutions into the law that regulates the legal functioning of wind energy, this is the ruling of the Constitutional Court. There will be partial compensation to municipalities for lost income from real estate tax. But among other things. in the district of Srodek in Wielkopolska, when I am on parliamentary duty in Dominów, in Środa Wielkopolska, local government officials ask when the government will finally present a novel of these solutions, because what functions disrupts spatial order. A lot of people can't build their property. All this causes a very difficult (Bingle) situation, also profitable, self-governments. In view of the above, I would like to ask when the government will present a novel of this law and what is the reason why this law has been in the government for so long.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u409	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u410	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I listen in the Seym to the lobbyists of this German windmill cord, which is the most expensive of which the Germans want to sell us, and so-called. Green energy from RES is the most expensive energy, because billions of euros a year pay Germany to maintain this system, I wonder: If this energy is so cheap, then why subsidies from the European Union? Why grant the Polish government? What's my current for? Of course, RES have no right to be without grants. Polish coal, Polish heating and Polish electricity are artificially taxed by the European Union, because the cheapest electricity is produced in Bełchatów. And we, ladies and gentlemen, are committing suicide, cutting each other's wings. We're leaving the coal, and what do we have in return? Imported gas, imports of electricity and windmill cords from Germany. Is that what you want? Waldemar Pawlak attacked LNG gas from Świnoujście a few days ago saying that the best is Russian gas. Unfortunately, PSL still speaks with the voice (The Bell) of Waldemar Pawlak, defending Russian gas, and the Left forgot about the OPZZ, forgot about the work people... Thank you very much. ...not defending Polish coal, but lobbying for German windmills. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u411	Thank you very much, sir. The same can be said and not offend Members. Please, Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u412	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The solutions proposed in the Law on compensation for the income lost by the municipalities in 2018 due to the change in the scope of taxation of wind power plants are pure compensation. It does not take into account the costs that municipalities had to bear, nor does rising inflation or credit costs, the costs associated with the change of taxation. The municipalities incurred significantly more costs than the amount that you are now proposing to reimburse in the draft law. Therefore, I have a question: Do you intend to compensate the municipalities for all the lost funds? Because what you're proposing is just not fair. Because the municipalities do not have this money, the inhabitants do not have the services they should receive under the money that local authorities would have at their disposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u413	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u414	Dear Marshal! High Seym! That's the hypocrisy. [[Apologize for Pawlak.]] The Russian gas is bad, but the Russian coal, which drove all over the stacks, although the Polish coal was on the heaps, did not disturb you. [[Applause]] In order for the local governments to have to prosecute before the tribunal... You're looting these self-governments all the time. How many more of these laws are we going to make up for? That's not much money, because it's just the equivalent of punishment for 8 months of operation of the Turów mine, 1/5 of what you threw into the mud in Ostrołęka. How much more of this money are you gonna spend with no sense, and who's gonna take responsibility for it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u415	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u416	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I am sure that you know very well that Russian coal affects the common European market, and you know very well that it is not Poland that decides whether or not this Russian coal affects it, but the European Union, which would have to impose sanctions to change it. You know that very well, and yet, unfortunately, you are trying to deceive Poles in this respect. And the Germans don't want to impose an embargo on Russian coal because they're the biggest exporter. On the other hand, going back to this law, to this very good law of 2016, [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that this was a response to the huge demands of Poles concentrated in various organizations and associations which opposed the wild development of Poland just by farms [[♪ The bell ♪]] wind. [[Please come...]] Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill has its advantages too. It's a good thing it's accepted. However, the truth is that green energy is not just wind farms. And here I wanted to ask the Minister: Minister, how many photovoltaic installations were there in 2015, and how many such prosumer installations do we have today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u417	Thank you. And the last question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u418	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think it is worth recalling what it was like before the 2016 Act was passed, when the German windmills were being built and basically moved, [[Applause]] Because after Schröder's report, it turned out that the construction, operation and disposal of the windmill requires more energy than it will produce in its lifetime, so it is best to move It's for Poland. [[Exactly.]] And it was built without a local zoning plan, under construction conditions, people completely under the house where they live. And from some very meaningful research, and the most cautious, it appears that there is a disease caused by windmills... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr, what are you...]] ...that's wind turbine syndrome. With 1 MW, 2 MW, 3 MW, the minimum distance is 3.5 km. It's even more than ten times the height of the fan. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u419	That was the last question. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment of Minister Ireneus for an answer to questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u420	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. and Mrs. Parliamentarians! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, First of all, I would like to thank the President of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Activities very warmly, but also the President of the Committee on Local Government and all the members of these committees for their substantive work on the bill. I would like to thank all the political parties in the clubs, the parliamentary circles for giving a positive opinion on this project. Of course, the opposition has the right to criticize the government, the implementation of projects undertaken Just a few years ago. Maybe I'll start with that, Your Honored Marshal, High Izbo, that I will present the current state of implementation of Law 10H, because here there were many questions about this. At the committee meeting yesterday, too, there were voices claiming the 10H principle to be liberalized. Today, in the questions of most of your fellow Members, this was also the subject. The liberalisation of the law on investment in wind power plants concerning distance conditions is one of the hot topics that have long been addressed in the public debate. The changes in this area will certainly have a positive impact on the development of wind energy on land. Work is currently underway, which is being completed, on numerous proposals which have been received in the framework of the public consultation of the draft law. This project is run by the government by the Minister for Development and Technology. This is the Minister responsible for construction, that is, the construction department is competent in the Ministry of Development and here directly as regards the interpellations that affect us, personally to me, because they concern the development of renewable energy sources, I have to consult or supplement them with the position of the Ministry of Development and Technology. I am convinced that soon this matter will first be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers and will then be transferred to the Sejm. It is difficult for me to make declarations, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of the deadline, but I will say that the largest energy companies, companies of the State Treasury, including PKN Orlen or the Polish Energy Group, in their development strategies, the implementation of energy projects also assume the development of wind energy on land. That's why I think that energy is needed. Unfortunately, I must disagree with the voice of one of the parliamentarians, who claimed that wind energy is the most expensive, is uneconomic. That's not true. [[Applause]] Well, High Sejm, ladies and gentlemen, in all my life... The cost of energy, 1 kWh, 1 MWh, i.e. so-called. LCOE, is the cheapest for wind energy on land. This is evident, among other things, in this regard. contracted at RES auction projects. The differential contract, which was adopted as a model of public support notified by the European Commission and which has been operating on the Polish energy market for many years, shows that the cost of energy produced in wind energy on land is about PLN 230 per MWh and the current price of energy on the stock exchange is PLN 576 per MWh. Well, ladies and gentlemen, a differential contract causes those who have contracted their projects at RES auctions since 2018, 2019, 2020 after 2021, if they have determined the price with the President of the Energy Regulatory Office at a level lower than the current stock market price, to refund this surplus, i.e. between PLN 230 and PLN 576 of today's billing manager. It's an official subject who's doing this job. Therefore, it must be said that wind energy on land could focus a few more gigawatts of power working for the Polish national electricity system, enriching the Polish energy mix. I would like to remind you that Poland also has its commitments for RES in 2030. At the moment, the discussion on the Fit for package begins. 55, but this is a separate subject which I do not wish to raise at the moment, it does not concern this law. Nevertheless, I will give you some information which, I think, is also important to you who are interested in energy, who primarily work in the energy committee, but also in the local government committee. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is not like some of you, especially from the opposition, have suggested that the Government of Law and Justice has abolished - even very extreme terms here have fallen: it has killed - wind energy on land. Absolutely not true. In 2015, the capacity installed in windmills on land was 5.8 GW. Today it is 6.8, even more, over 6.8, or 1 GW power has been installed. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is actually just an introduction, because in the last 3 years, we have contracted 4.5 GW of power under the RES auction, which means that within the next 2.5 Three years, tops... We have a delay related to COVID, we have also introduced a change in one of the COVID laws to enable projects to be implemented due to broken supply chains, so in the next 3 years on land in Poland we will have about 11 GW of power installed. [[How much?]] This is as much as we plan to install on the Baltic Sea by 2040 as part of a major economic project of offshore wind energy, also 11 GW of power. This year, in December, there will be another RES auction, which we believe has potential, and it is possible to contract several wind energy projects on land. I'm going to answer the questions. Maybe I'll just give you the facts. Today, in November 2021, in all RES technologies, i.e. wind energy, solar energy, biogas, biomethane, biomass, water energy, we have a functioning installed 15.2 GW. According to experts' estimates, in the next three years we can reach the installed capacity of 35,000. MW. This is due to projects that have already obtained connection conditions and which are also contracted in RES auctions, among others. from solar energy. Thank you very much for asking Anna April and I answer. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that some people only identify RES with wind energy on land. That is not the case. In the last 3 years, and especially in the last 2 years, despite the pandemic of Coronavirus in Poland, there has been an investment boom associated with the development of photovoltaics. In 2015, in December, we had 4,000. Prosumers, and at the end of September this year we exceeded 700,000. Prosumers. As we estimate, in the first quarter of next year we can reach 1 million prosumers. This is a really great achievement and it needs to be relatively adapted to the conditions of our National Energy System. But also - so that I can answer the most important questions in my time - I would like to say that every medal, ladies and gentlemen, has two sides. In mid-2018 we changed the taxation of wind turbines, actually changing the definition of this turbine, which was related to the fact that the turbine itself was not previously taxed on real estate. This had a negative impact on the revenue of local governments and today we are repairing this situation by this law. One explanation for the High House, for the honourable Members, is that the government executes the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. If this judgment, including the full justification, were to be followed literally, it does not appear from that judgment that it is to be compensation for the entire year 2018. Actually, we could stop for half a year, which would be six months with a dozen days. This is the result of the Constitutional Court's judgment and we could stop in that position. During the consultation, the government, especially the Ministry of Climate and Environment and our entire team, spoke very openly to the proposals of local government units, municipalities. After many hours of discussions, not only after consultation alone, but also later, during the work of the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission, we assumed that we wanted this to be calculated for the whole year. We have included in this, as it were, compensation for the loss of the benefits, for the commitments made - for all that you have been talking about. But so that it is not so, because you identify it with the fact that local governments are losing, that the people are paying for it, that someone is suffering from it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure the local authorities have lost their income, and now we're fixing this situation. But please bear in mind that on the other side of the same case was the interest of investors who made wind investments, actually already functioning wind farms, and thus - there were consumers of the end of electricity, i.e. de facto we were all, the whole society. If we hadn't changed this case, we'd be in danger of suing arbitration tribunals, international damages. According to our estimates, they would probably exceed these amounts significantly. Thus, the introduction of this regulation during the year with retroactive effect from 1 January 2018 was, as a rule, a choice of lesser evil. We believe that that decision was right, the only right decision at the time, in that situation. I'm answering the other questions. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jan Szopiński asked about the twin railway and aviation infrastructure, similar relationships. I beg your pardon, sir, but this is a question for the Minister of Infrastructure. I would be happy to pass on the Minister's suggestions. A very important question, which also concerned compensation, their size, but regarding Janoski, was asked by Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. Please, countries, when the municipalities had less income from this title in 2018, then Janoskowo was larger. Today, when they have a higher income by paying this compensation, there will be some sort of compensation. But also - as I said earlier - compensation is for the whole year 2018 and not for 6 months, as would the content of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, I also talked about energy prices. Most of these questions were followed by the 10H rule. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski at the end. Unfortunately, I have to say with regret that perhaps our national qualities are resourcefulness, ingenuity, creativity, but in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, in the first years of this decade unfortunately there have been cases and they are well documented - I would like to stress this - that illegible entrepreneurs trying to take advantage of their opportunity by bringing in the so-called. infrastructure, which had already received public aid from the European Union for a period of 15 years, especially in Germany, but not only in other countries of Western Europe, imported disassembled equipment and installed it in Poland. But in order to get public aid again, they resorted to falsifying technical-movement records, they were pierced with rating plates. Things like this don't happen anymore. What I'm saying is that today this professional group, this wind energy business group on land, this is an elite club. Most of them are entrepreneurs who are concentrated in the Polish Wind Energy Association, which introduced a code of good practice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today it is a partner in discussions for the government, for the Ministry of Climate and Environment on new regulations in this area. To conclude, I would like to thank you once again for the substantive, substantive discussion. I believe that this law will be adopted as soon as possible so that we can pay compensation to the municipalities before 5 February 2022. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u421	Thank you very much, sir. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Tomasz Ławniczak, wants to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u422	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! As at the committee meeting, and today in the plenary room, it was a characteristic feature of the fact that, if there was a discussion, it was not about the content of the law itself, it was not about controversy, but about the 10H law, so it was called, the windmill law. I state that no amendment has been made. I think there will be no problem with the adoption of this law, but from the point of view of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, which I chair, I wanted to draw attention to. Just for two moments. Honourable ladies and gentlemen, As to the thesis that municipalities are being robbed by the government, by the Government Local Investment Fund during the COVID crisis he paid PLN 12 billion in three rounds. Then the first hand of the Polish Deal - 24 billion, of course I round. The second call is going to be 10 billion. If we add this, for investments dedicated to local governments in 2020, 2021 and 2022 PLN 46 billion will be transferred from the government. This is an absolute record, incomparable with nothing. For example, local roads we care about, roads of category, communal and district roads. For 8 years, the national development fund for local roads, so-called. Schetynówki, remodeled, modernized 14 100 km of this kind of roads, which is of course a big credit. The last 3 years alone, three calls, 2019, 2020, 2021, will end in modernization of 14 500 km of roads, so a little more. At least 14 500 km, because the reserve lists are already running and the final results will only be obtained at the turn of the first and second quarter. Probably over 15,000 km of roads in three years. As for this law, ladies and gentlemen, the key is the local spatial planning plans. It was indeed some of the opposition Members in other debates, but they also admitted that windmills were being introduced on a free American basis. Between 2010 and 2015, I was vice-star of one of the southern districts of Wielkopolska, Ostrowski County, and I hosted many times - not I caused it, people came to the Old Town - protest committees against one, the other or the third investment. But it's characteristic. I'm going back to local government policy and local government legislation. Namely, there is one municipality, I give it as an example, in my district, the municipality and the town of Raszków, where the mayor had 100% the entire municipality covered by a local spatial planning plan. All location arrangements were with the public 100% discussed. No protest committee. The windmills are standing where the public has agreed and where the location decision has been given. Once again, local spatial planning plans for local government policy are key. Now I agree with the opposition. We wait, even during this meeting I asked, it is still part of the inter-ministerial debate... Namely, such municipalities, which have order and already have established distances, cannot now be punished by law 10H itself, because a significant minority of municipalities is of this kind, has this kind of spatial order in their territory. Law 10H hits them and - I agree - it needs to be amended. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u423	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Parliamentary draft law on one-off provision of money to anti-communist activists and politically repressed persons (prints Nos 1730 and 1747). I would like to ask Mrs Ursula Ruseck to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u424	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I submit a report to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Parliamentary draft law on one-off provision of money to anti-communist activists and politically repressed persons, print No. 1730, and the printing of the report is printing No. 1747. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 8 November 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading. At yesterday's meeting, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy carried out the first reading and examination of the above draft law. The bill is the next step, it is a valuable initiative towards legal, financial and moral redress for people who fought for our freedom. Procededed project, i.e. The law on the one-off provision of money to activists of the anti-communist opposition and to those repressed for political reasons shall lay down the conditions for the acquisition of the right to a single benefit and the rules for the payment of that benefit. The purpose of a single benefit is to provide additional income support to persons with a confirmed status as an anti-communist opposition activist or a person repressed for political reasons. The right to this benefit will be exercised by persons who have obtained the status of an anti-communist opposition activist and a politically repressed person on the basis of a decision of the Head of the Office for Combatants and Persons Repressed until 31 December 2021. A person with a confirmed status of anti-communist opposition activist and a politically repressed person will be entitled to a single payment. The benefit will be paid out of office by the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons in the amount of PLN 3000 and will be granted through an administrative decision. The decision on a single payment will be issued by the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. A decision granting a single cash benefit shall not be justified and shall be subject to immediate enforceability. The contested law proposes that the benefit should be free of execution and not be included in the income entitlement to benefits and allowances granted on the basis of separate provisions, and that it should be free of personal income tax. The project is another bill in the six-year process of restoring the dignity of anti-communist opposition activists. I would like to remind you that the Law and Justice Government has repeatedly amended the Law of 20 March 2015 on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons, and its changes were moving towards an extension of the support given above. group. It is worth mentioning that since 15 October 2020, a compensatory allowance has been granted if a person with a confirmed status of an anti-communist opposition activist or a politically repressed person receives a pension or invalidity pension or a pension for incapacity for work of less than 2 501,76 gross zloty per month. In these circumstances, the person shall be entitled to the compensation of the benefit collected up to that amount. Also in this year. new regulations have entered into force to increase the availability of monetary assistance. They included an increase in the amount and frequency of one-off monetary aid granted, an increase in the income criteria by 50% as regards one-off aid and interim aid. A new way of establishing the basis for the assessment of initial capital has also been introduced, recognising as periods of premium periods of political repression while accepting the amount of average remuneration as the basis for the assessment of contributions during that period. This means that the pensions of these people will be higher. Important workers' rights have also been introduced: anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons remaining in employment have an additional 5-day leave per calendar year. These are only the most important benefits that have been introduced by the Law of 2015 by the Government of Law and Justice. It's a way of repairing the harm that many people have suffered. To compare support - and mostly to you and to those who listen to us, numbers - I will say yes. As regards the funds that were allocated to combatants and anti-communist opposition activists in 2015, the figure was 9 million. At the moment, this figure is 130 million. This number is really impressive. That's a lot of support for these people. All actions lead to making amends to those who, at the time, during the martial law, have suffered enormous moral, financial losses since 1956. In view of the above, in accordance with the findings of the committee which unanimously requested this, I propose that the High Sejm adopt a draft law to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u425	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u426	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I took part in the honour of presenting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Law and Justice of the position concerning the Parliamentary Party at the initiative of Members of the Law and Justice of the Parliament draft law on one-off payment to anti-communist activists and those repressed for political reasons, seym prints No 1730 and 1747. This draft lays down the conditions for the acquisition of the right to receive in 2021 a single payment by anti-communist opposition activists and those who have been repressed for political reasons which they have obtained by 31 December 2021 on the basis of a decision of the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. Those with a confirmed status of anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons will be entitled to a single benefit of 3,000. zł. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice would like to draw attention to earlier declarations and proposals of Law and Justice to improve the material situation of the oppressed and anti-communist opposition activists. It's about, among other things. First, the granting of a benefit of PLN 460.50 per month, which is valued and exempt from personal income tax, and the person receiving such benefit may benefit from priority to environmental social care. Second, from 15 October 2020 a compensatory allowance shall be granted if a person with a confirmed status as an anti-communist opposition activist or a politically repressed person receives a pension or invalidity pension or an invalidity pension for incapacity for work of less than 2501,76 gross zloty per month. It can be added that anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons may benefit from other assistance measures implemented by the Government of Law and Justice. The rapporteur, the chairman of the Committee of Urszula Ruseck, spoke more widely about this. The above indicates that we are a credible, consistently fulfilling declaration, in this case - increasing aid for people especially deserved for Poland. We are convinced that in this way we can compensate for the harm and persecution of those who fought for free Poland. By fighting against the system of evil such as communism, they opposed various forms of pressure and oppression, regardless of the negative consequences this fight could have had and, unfortunately, brought, in the form of arrests, persecutions, job losses, etc. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Sleep. The President of the Republic of Poland, Prof. Lech Kaczyński, was a strong advocate of action by the state which would guarantee the care of the members of the Polish People's Republic opposition. Lech Kaczyński has always stressed that Poland must respect its heroes, that it is a duty which results from fairness towards these people. The Parliamentary bill on one-off provision of money to anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons, as well as the legal solutions presented by Mr Urszula Ruseck, which are beneficial for the activists of the Polish People's Republic of Poland, are reflected in the words of the dead. President Lech Kaczyński, as well as referring to his concept, the vision of helping those who fought for free and sovereign Poland. The bill assumes that the payment of the benefit would take place by 31 March 2022. As I read in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, the payment of one-off cash benefits will start in December 2021, i.e. in the month in which it is the 40th anniversary of the martial law. In the case of an entitled person resident abroad, a single cash benefit would be paid in the country of residence to the bank account of that person abroad and the payment would be made in a convertible currency. This is particularly important for those who had to leave their homeland as a result of the repressive actions of the communist system. The project also states that the provision, together with the cost of handling it, would be financed by the State budget and the financial consequences of the proposed regulation are estimated at about PLN 42 million. The draft law provides for the possibility for the President of the Council of Ministers of a regulation to carry over planned budget expenditure between parts of the State budget, with a view to ensuring their transparency and an adequate level of implementation of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports these solutions. In conclusion, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I declare that we are proposing one amendment to the bill under review and, at the same time, we are supporting the draft law on one-off provision of money to anti-communist activists and those oppressed for political reasons, seym prints 1730 and 1747. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u427	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u428	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition is pleased to present its position on the Parliamentary draft law on one-off provision of money to anti-communist activists and politically oppressed persons, print No. 1730. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary bill on one-off provision of money to anti-communist activists and politically repressed persons provides for the granting of the right to a one-off payment of 3 000. zł previously mentioned persons. The right to this benefit will be exercised by persons who have obtained the status of anti-communist opposition activist and the politically repressed person by 31 December 2021 on the basis of a decision of the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club supports this bill, but I would like to point out that the community of anti-communist underground activists has been fighting for several months to be involved in the parliamentary debate submitted on 9 July. the appeal of 258 opponents and repressed persons, containing a prepared document called: a draft law amending the Law of 20 March 2015 on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and certain other laws. This appeal was initiated by Mr Jarosław Maciej Goliszewski, Mr Leszek Stall and Dr. Grzegorz Kostrzewa-Zorbas and supported by 258 signatures of former opponents and oppressed persons. 15 July the appeal with the attached bill was directed by the Marshal of the Sejm to proceed in committee. Unfortunately, this call is stuck in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs during the process on this law, I requested that the agenda be extended and that work be started on the opposition's appeal. Unfortunately, my proposal was not included in the discussion. Mr Kasprzyk raised the need for the Institute of National Remembrance to draw up an opinion on the opposition's demands in the appeal submitted yesterday's session of the committee. This opinion is in the possession of the initiators of the appeal and was signed by Dr. Karol Nawrocki, President of the IPN in August. I would also like to remind you that on 14 October, Vice-President of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, asked for a letter of work on the appeal submitted by the opponents and proposed amendments to the legislation. I am sad to say that both the appeal of the anti-communist community and the letter by the Member has been ignored. For many months, the initiators of the appeal have carried out actions aimed at introducing changes to the current law by the Sejm and including in the process of their appeal with the draft bill, so that on the 40th anniversary of the introduction of martial law they can break the streak of bad memories connected with this particular day. They are the ones who know the problems of their fellow opponents. They're closest to the environment of the oppressed. With true passion, they devote themselves to the right cause. The draft law, which presented the applicants, contains solutions to correct legal, dignity and living events affecting former anti-communist opponents and oppressed persons. The proposals contained in this document include: honoring and commemorating persons with confirmed status of opposition activist or repressed person, extending the circle entitled to apply for post-mortem confirmation of the status of an activist repressed by environmental organisations, local authorities and voivodeships, or taking up by the Social Security Office a monthly replacement of persons who have confirmed the status of activist or repressed, but who, as a result of exclusion at the time of the Polish People's Republic, have not accumulated the traineeship required to pay the pension. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's bill (the bell) deserves support. At the same time, I would like to point out that this is the best time to address also the demands of anti-communist opposition activists and those who are being repressed. Therefore, while listening to the voice of the anti-communist opposition activists, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition makes amendments to this draft law and please take them into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u429	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u430	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This is an important project in which the High House confirms the article today. 19 of our constitution, which says that the Republic of Poland specially cares for veterans fighting for independence, especially the invalids of war. Today we are considering a parliamentary project on one-off provision of money to anti-communist opposition activists and politically repressed people. According to information provided by the head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons granted at first reading, those who have confirmed such status are 15 250 and the living - 13 754. These solutions already mentioned in the debate today, on improving the living conditions and functioning of the oppressed and anti-communist opposition activists, indeed, in our legislation in recent years are being expanded and expanded. The most important issue from the point of view of the parliamentary club of the Left is the issue of a certain balance between anti-communist opposition activists and politically repressed people and post-war and war combatants. According to the Minister's information, this group of people, veterans of the post-war period, is covered by one-off aid in terms of benefits due to insufficient means of life. This year, 20 thousand aid was granted. This is the result of the data of the Ministry, the Head of Office, and the amount of PLN 30 million has been allocated for this. So the question arises as to whether we have enough money to help post-war combatants and anti-communist opposition activists. Yes, this one-time witness law states that the cost of implementing this important element of support for this group of people is PLN 42 million. It's just a pity that these aren't the means in a specific place at the Minister's place. They are due to appear as a result of the decision of the President of the Council of Ministers. First of all, we would like the funds for this aid to be much higher, first, because of the costs of treatment, the costs resulting from the complications after the pandemic, second, due to the cost, the crazy cost which eats part of the pension benefits. It eats thirteen and a one-off benefit that is paid. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the Republic of Poland reported that according to Eurostat sources in Poland, the cost of exports of impurities in the period November 2015 - November 2021 increased by 164%, mostly for all countries of the European Union. The next country is Slovenia - 50% More. Three times the cost of living. This also applies to all veterans, most of whom are single persons, persons with disabilities, persons with these costs and who are particularly affected by their growth. Therefore, in the course of the work on the draft state budget, we will ask for an increase in the amount that would be at the disposal of the Head of Office, to assist the combatants and anti-communist opposition activists and the oppressed. The left-wing parliamentary club will support this important project on a one-off payment of 3,000. zł. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u431	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u432	Dear Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish Coalition and the Polish People's Party, it is my pleasure to present the position of the club concerning the Act on one-off provision of money to anti-communist activists and those repressed for political reasons from print no. 1730. This year, 13 December, marks the 40th anniversary of the introduction of martial law in Poland. We remember - and those of us who are younger, know from history cards and stories - how difficult it was for our country when communism reigned in Poland. We remember those who fought for free Poland, who in 1956 and 1989 risked their own life, freedom, wealth, workers' rights, engaged in anti-communist activities aimed at regaining the sovereignty and independence of our homeland. Many of these people have been repressed, many have lost their lives. After years, the Act on anti-communist opposition activists was granted the status of anti-communist opposition activist and a politically repressed person. They also received a cash benefit and a number of other privileges, such as the status of an anti-communist opposition activist or a repressed person, could obtain a card and a title for an honorary badge. In addition, monetary assistance could be granted to those activists, entitled persons who were in material difficulties, or due to the occurrence of random events - for the purchase of wheelchairs, rehabilitation equipment, orthopaedic objects, for the adaptation of rooms to the type of invalidity or for the payment of care aid. The entitled person shall also have the right of priority to environmental social protection, including the acquisition of a place in the social assistance home. The local government may assist opposition activists in the areas of communication facilities, housing, cultural, health and education services. In August Ub. The draft amendments to this law have entered the Sejm. It was based on a proposal from the opposition community, who felt unfairly treated by the rules in force. This project, however, was not procedated. These were proposals from the opposition and the Senate. A project containing the same solutions that proposed the opposition community and the Senate, plus new regulations appeared in the Seym in January this year. Additional provisions related to raising the income thresholds for single monetary aid, periodic monetary aid, increasing the amount of benefits and allowing the granting of monetary aid twice a year and not, as yet, once every 12 months. This law also provided the opposition activists with additional vacation days and a full or partial exemption from social security charges. The Polish People's Party Club - the Polish Coalition voted in favour of this law. As I said, December 13th this year. It will be the 40th anniversary of the martial law. On this occasion a bill was drawn up under which anti-communist opposition activists will be granted a one-off cash benefit of 3,000. zł. Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives will also vote in favour of this project. I think it is a good time for us, as part of social solidarity, to remember those who at that time as teachers shape the hearts and minds of the young generation. Today, after 30 and 40 years as teachers, they receive a pension of PLN 1300. Let us remember the farmers whose pensions are grossly low today, I do not know if they were the lowest in the pension hierarchy, who also supported opposition efforts in our country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us also remember about the voluntary firefighters who are still promised a pension allowance for a long-term job for another man, and so far such an allowance has not been granted and paid. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u433	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u434	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After 1989 or 1989, the commune fell, but fell on four feet and during the 30 years of the half transformation that we had to deal with - which has described many authors well as post-communism - this imbalance between the beneficiaries of the Polish People's Republic and those who fought against this system was and is real, because such a system was founded on us after 1989. Therefore, this small compensation, this little one-time gesture for those tens of thousands who with the communist regime in the name of our freedom, sovereignty, in the name of Poland being Polish, fighting, is obvious. It's a gesture they just deserve. On the other hand, two things are worth mentioning. First of all, it seems to me that still in the public space of our country examples of life heroism not as great, not as spectacular as some legends have in their account, but as heroism, which meant years of living in humiliation, in poverty and suffering persecution, as well as the voice of these people are not audible. They are still too little heard and still too little present in our public space. It is about those privates who later did not get along with the communists at the round table, but fought for another Poland, completely different from the one they knew, it is worth recalling at this moment. It is also worth recalling the testimony and integrity of those whose vision of Poland was broken in 1981 by martial law and never again returned in such a form, certainly not in 1989 and in what happened after 1989. It is important that this vision and their testimony, their observance before what is the red utopia, what is at all utopia realized in social, national life, this utopia, which today also manifests itself in the form of a room of Spinelli, a communist, in the European Parliament and has its open display in many of the agendas of this new project in part of socialism, as well as this memory has not disappeared. 'Cause if they're red, brown, green, or anything else, or rainbows, they always end badly. And this is also the memory (the bell) that the victims of martial law deserve. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u435	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u436	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! A bit of reference to my previous speaker, I would like to say that nationalistic utopia is also of such a nature. But that's not what I'd like to talk about. I remember the post-war period, the period of great disappointment when a huge state machine destroyed many's dreams. Turns out not all of them. It did not destroy the dreams, the determination of those who then took action, this great myth of solidarity, this great idea of solidarity and non-utopian this time, but the practical, real idea that really meant that we wanted to be free, we wanted to be democratic, we wanted to be democratic, we wanted to live in a sovereign state. Well, there were those who took this idea. They didn't count on any paybacks, no apanages, they just thought they had to do it. They continued the work of those who fought for freedom in the 1970s, before the 60s and after the war. And although they sometimes referred to various trends of Polish independence, political tradition, they had a lot in common, and what was common formed solidarity in them. And it is good that today all those oppositionists who, in various years before 1989, risked their family situation, their work, their professional situation, risked prison, we remember and that today we are returning to them, because we have so little in common. It is good that today, those who won Poland's freedom in 1989, are joining us. I repeat, there is so little of what we have in common, we are so divided that today, by giving expressions of appreciation, tribute also in this way, also through a one-time payment, is an expression of some national instinct, a desire to defend national identity. I am very pleased that everyone in this House is declaring [[♪ The bell ♪]] support for this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u437	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Shopiński, the Left. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u438	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask when and how it was announced that a written statement should be obtained by 31 December that it was being repressed by the authorities of the past system. A large part of the heroes of that period never applied for a certificate that she fought for her homeland's freedom. Please also refer to the information that the certificate in question is ex officio and several lines below that the head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons grants it. Which one of these records is real? Why is the project inconsistent in this regard? I ask you kindly to answer in writing. I'm asking that all those who deserve this supplement just get it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u439	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club. There isn't. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u440	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I would like to ask you about your position on one of the groups that has not received the support of the High House until today and has not been included in the group of victims of World War II. I'm talking about the minor victims of the war. The parliamentary left-wing club, which represents Monika Falej, presented a parliamentary bill on this issue. This case isn't new. The problem has been raised for several years and has been moving through several parliaments. In view of the above, I would like to ask, is there any work in the Ministry relating to the analysis of the situation (the bell) of these people, or the preparation of appropriate solutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u441	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u442	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the recipe we'll find in the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 2, which aims to transfer this money transfer to the last known address used in correspondence with the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons to a person who does not receive a cash benefit in the country. My question, however, is whether this address should not be verified. There is no obligation, but there may be a procedure that will lead to its verification so that these funds are not transferred and returned. It goes on for example. about the situation where the addressee will no longer live at this address. I would very much ask you to clarify this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u443	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u444	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Chief of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons! I have the honour and honor to have the status of anti-communist opposition activist. I take this as a huge distinction, and I'm proud of it. Any support for, or whatever, a small, less than 14,000. groups of such people must be treated as a beautiful gesture from the Republic, which I value, because years are coming. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to a problem. There is a pool of people who are subject to proceedings for their status. This is a multi-monthly procedure, so either we should include it in this law, or the Minister should commit himself that these proceedings will simply end. I want to say one more very important thing. 15 seconds, Marshal. We can serve others with our example, with our experience. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask that, from the institutional position of the office or the IPN, there are proposals for people like me to take part - because we have such experience - in actions to support civic education. It goes on for example. about history lessons or participation in public holidays. I will also say that we are being ignored in local communities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u445	Thank you, sir. You're abusing... Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u446	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Why is the appeal that my colleague, Mrs Joann Frydrych, signed by 258 anti-communist opposition activists and politically repressed people stuck in the Committee on Social Policy and the Family despite the many attempts we have undertaken to start discussions and work on it? For reasons we don't understand, he's in the committee freezer. After all, the opponents know best what problems and administrative procedures they are colliding with on a daily basis. Today, on the eve of the 40th anniversary of the declaration of martial law, should we not finally listen to their voice and solve the problems they have signaled? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u447	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u448	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Let me remind you that in the communist zone, we are the result of a decision by the powers. Later, the Polish nation could have spoken in a referendum in 1946, which was falsified. Then the road to freedom led through 1956, 1970, 1981. All generations of Poles fought for this freedom, and this must be remembered. This is not only the last period and the round table, which was important for Poland. I do not think that we have come to this freedom by peaceful means. But on the way there were also combatants, disabled war workers and children of war, who worked for free for years for Poland, rebuilt it. Today, due to the 40th anniversary, we should not divide them into those who fought for this Poland (the bell) and those who fought in recent times. That's why I'm asking... Thank you. I'm done. I ask: Why do not all those entitled to combat and oppressed have this supplement? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u449	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u450	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many years of anti-communist opposition activists have been waiting for support from the Polish state. It is good that such a law appeared in 2015. I will not be angry and remind you that this was the last year of the government of PO and PSL, i.e. after 8 years, but for this I thank you very warmly on behalf of activists, especially Radoms, because Radom is a city that has especially registered in the history of fighting for free Poland. And, Minister, I would like to ask you, what funds in the state budget were dedicated to anti-communist activists in 2015 and what are currently in the state budget for this (the bell) to effectively restore the dignity of anti-communist opposition activists to improve their living situation, and whether there are any further plans. This is an important bill and thank you very much for this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u451	Thank you. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u452	Dear Marshal! Minister! Minister! As a person who has the status of a person being repressed for anti-communist activities, I do not agree with some of the statements of representatives of the opposition parliamentary clubs who said - that's how it sounded, so I understand it, so I apologize, perhaps I misunderstood, but I don't think - that we have done much from 2015 until now for anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political activity. I have a question for Minister Kasprzyk, if he has such data. How many people could benefit from this law, which was prepared and implemented under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party? A small group of activists could benefit because such thresholds were set. And possibly what were the means? And what were the means and what group of entitled persons could benefit from the help for (the bell) of the rule of law and justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u453	Thank you, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u454	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask the head of the Veterans' Office what percentage of the living anti-communist opposition activists and the repressed are taking advantage of the aid, and what percentage of the aid does not benefit because there is no such knowledge. Currently, the situation in the field is that, as far as the representative office of the Veterans' Office is concerned, these representations are scarce in the field, for example, due to the age of the veterans. Why am I talking about this? I'm talking about the last time I went to my parliamentary office, a man who was intern and didn't use any help, because he hasn't had that kind of knowledge so far. So that there are people and I think we should (the bell) take care of it, not enjoy who gave more money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u455	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u456	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I am in such a situation that I know both from the story and directly from the fight of the active person who deserved for independence of Poland, acting in the anti-communist opposition. I would like to thank these right-wing governments in Poland from the Seym Court - the first one was Jan Olszewski's government, later the Government of Law and Justice and now the Government of Law and Justice - for remembering and having sensitivity when it comes to all social groups, and wanting to appreciate the deserved for regaining Poland's independence and for improving our nation's existence. Ladies and gentlemen! [[♪ The bell ♪]] The mentioned President Lech Kaczyński excavated those trampled in the mud. Today he was mentioned by a representative of Law and Justice. Thank you. But the current government of law and justice is doing a lot, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, sir. And what I'm trying to say is that you... Mr President, please don't abuse... ...the anti-communist opposition activists have dignity and honour and are pleased that there is a government in Poland that takes care of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u457	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u458	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to take the floor, speaking from the perspective of a representative of a number of opponents within the meaning of the IPN Act, and those with important names. A specific situation that applies to oppositional marriages should be noted. Well, it happened that the opposition wife was treated as if she was not an opposition activist. It is therefore a request, Minister, that, in agreement with the President of the IPN, to examine the status of those persons who, when married, formally or informally, engaged in opposition activities together, because I have often encountered such situations. But a completely different problem is what I'm going to say right now. Well, I'm going to say that it's a scandal that the opposition activist's status was denied to the person who was being repressed (the bell) by Danuta Wałęsie. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u459	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would like to ask the Head of the Office for Combatants and the People Repressed by Minister John Józef Kasprzyk to answer the questions of ladies and gentlemen. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u460	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I will start with numbers, because they are important to sort out issues related to who will receive this one-off support, which in the parliamentary project is connected, I understand, with the forthcoming anniversary of the martial law. There are 15 218 people who have received the status of an anti-communist opposition activist or a politically repressed person, 13 731 of whom live. After death, because it is acceptable, this is the status I granted to 286 people at the request of families. After confirming the status during these 6 years of operation of the Act, 1199 people died. Ladies and gentlemen! As the parliamentarians have said here, there has been a major change in the care of anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. The Act, which the High Sejm adopted in 2015, has emerged from this group deserved in the fight for freedom of Poland another group of subjects of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. But in the wake of this, apart from the honorable title, legitimacy, badge and certain forms of financial support, but for those who were in a really tragic material situation, because the original wording of the bill introduced income thresholds were draconian... The point is that, in fact, its status was purely honorable and only three amendments: from 2017, 2020 and 2021, have made this group a group of several thousand who have the same powers as combatants of the war period, i.e. those who are subject to the Combatant Act who fought arms in hand. And in some cases these powers are even slightly higher. And just to sort it out, so we also know that it's not like this bill is a one-off sum of 3,000. zł and the Polish state do not support those who fought for freedom. Well, every anti-communist opposition activist has the right to provide money for life, every month, currently in the amount of PLN 460. That's the same amount as the combatants get in the war period. Activists finally have the opportunity to benefit, already twice a year, from one-off or periodic assistance, for example. they must adapt the housing to the needs of persons with disabilities. They also have the right to benefit outside the order of health care and pharmaceutical services provided in pharmacies. They have the right to use outpatient specialized services without referring to a health care professional. They have priority when it comes to accessing environmental social protection. Double consideration shall be given to the duration of their activities, internment or repression in establishing initial capital. As a result of the last year's amendment, they also have 50% tariff breaks for public transport and a 51 percent reduction for public transport by rail. They also have the right to use health insurance, which the head of office pays directly if necessary. We have also created the possibility for activists to perform care tasks. And it worked extremely well during the pandemic, when also opposition activists, apart from combatants, were involved in aiding, for example, the provision of meals, lunches home to minimize their contact with the outside world. Finally, a very important amendment from last year. The opposition activists have the right to compensation. If they have a pension lower than currently PLN 2501 and there are many such persons in this group of 13 thousand, they have the right to a compensatory allowance which is paid by pension authorities. Importantly, also thanks to last year's amendment, monetary aid granted by the head of office is exempted from bail-out. We know that they are often people who are in a difficult situation in this regard. Finally, this year activists were given the right to benefit from a new way of establishing core capital for periods considered as contributions. They shall have the right to additional 5-day leave in the calendar year and shall be covered by the programmes which the office carries out. For example, we finance anti-communist opposition activists staying in spas and sanatoriums. They're not waiting two, three years to go to the sanatorium. They choose a sanatorium, and the office, on the basis of an invoice issued by the spa, in the amount specified in the regulations, pays them for their stay and health care. Similarly, they are covered by a programme to finance the purchase of hearing aids, under which the Authority finances such apparatus up to 10 000. zł on both ears, and this program enjoys, as in the case of combatants, great interest. In answer to the questions of ladies and gentlemen of Members and in ordering certain matters, with regard to the question of Mr Jan Szopiński, I would like to say that the status of anti-communist opposition activist is confirmed by the head of the Veterans' Office at the request of the person who wishes to have such status. Before such status is confirmed, administrative proceedings shall be carried out. First of all, it begins with the process of self-illustration, i.e. the person applying for the status of an activist, must submit the decision of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance that she did not cooperate with the security authorities of the communist state. Usually, in response to further questions, this status validation process, if the case is very simple and confirmed by evidence, documents, witness statements, takes 30 days. If the case is a little more complicated, because there is no evidence at the Institute of National Remembrance, no testimony of witnesses, according to the Act such cases are dealt with by the Regional Council for Anti-Communist Opposition Actors. Their recommendation to the office is not binding, but it is very helpful. As regards the measures that are granted for this purpose, anti-communist opposition activists - in relation to questions by Anna April and Jan Mosiński. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 for assistance and for combatants, and for anti-communist opposition activists, the office for combatants had a budgeted amount of PLN 9 million per year. This year it is the amount of PLN 130 million. And you will note that, especially in the veteran environment, unfortunately due to the inexorable laws of biology, the drain of our subjects is significant and the average age of war veterans is now 94 years. These are the two values: 9 million in 2015 and 130 million this year. Mrs Zofia Czernow asked what percentage of activists are benefiting from and not benefiting. Ladies and gentlemen, the status is over 13,000. activists at their request. When the Act was proceded in 2015, it was announced that the status would ultimately be 200,000. people, but researchers from the Institute of National Remembrance, and especially editors of the Solidarity Encyclopedia, have reassured that the target group, which will be covered by the provisions of the Act, will not be more than 30,000. persons, and after 6 years of operation of the law should be granted the right. If we get a total of 30,000. people, this will be a very good result, given that after 6 years the status has, including dead persons, 15 thousand. persons. We, too, as an office - I reply to you - do not have any representation in the field. There's a council in front of the voivodships on the case of activists. But here too, we are very much hoping for the help of the parliamentarians. The point is that in your offices, if you are interested, help - all the materials are clear, accessible on the office's website and not only - in filling in the application and submitting it to the office. When it comes to activists, I guess that's all. The issue of spouses, quite important, raised by Mr.Peter Adamowicz. Well, there are cases where both spouses acted or were subjected to repression. It is quite simple, namely, one and the other spouse has the full right to apply for... We have a lot of marriages like this, marriages that are still married at the time. Each of these persons has an individual right to apply for the status of an activist or a person repressed for political reasons. I would also like to refer to Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski's question concerning children of war, although this is not the subject of this project, which is being examined. This, too, sounded in Mr Dyduch's speech. Ladies and gentlemen, the minor victims of war, who for various reasons were being repressed by German national socialists, whether by the Bolsheviks, or by the prisoners of concentration camps, were sent into forced labor into the Third Reich or were sent to inhuman soil, deep into the Soviet Union, having had for 30 years the Kombatant powers. On the other hand, the problem is the so-called problem. children of war - I say: so-called, because in some simplification it is necessary to speak - i.e. what appears, and I also meet with the environments of these people, every now and then, this is a project, a really far-reaching idea, because it is an idea that apart from children who have been subjected to repression of this title and are the wards of the office, the law of combatants to embrace all minors, citizens of the Republic of Poland, born - and now there is a good question: between 1 September 1939 and 8 May 1945? What about the children who were born in the 1930s and survived the war as eight-year-olds? It was undoubtedly a terrible trauma for them, but this would mean that if we were to take a serious look at these projects, that we would have to take the whole population of the Second Republic, i.e. people who had reached the age of 18 by 31 August 1939, to embrace the law of the Kombatant. I do not know whether Parliament's work should go in this direction. I will repeat: children who, as well as adults, have been subjected to repression, whether by the Germans or the Soviets, have the power of combatant. After all, we have cases of children born, for example. in Auschwitz - and they have veteran powers, or cases of children sent to slave labor in the depths of the Third Reich or in the depths of the Soviet Union. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, to conclude, I wanted to thank you for this project. This is also a project, which - once again worth repeating - is a one-off payout for anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed, one-off, because connected with the anniversary. But this is not the only thing - and I think we are all aware of it - which the Polish state is doing for this environment, and it is doing particularly actively in the last 6 years thanks to the amendments adopted in this House, in principle unanimously, to the Act on activists of anti-communist opposition, which was updated by the High Sejm in 2017, 2020 and 2021. It is happening now, and I have always wanted to do so, and I have talked to you about it many times, and I always wanted a balance to be maintained between the combatants of the war period, namely those who fought arms in the years 1939 and 1956, and those who fought arms in the years 1939 and 1956 and 1989. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They fought. It's the same thing - independence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u461	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Ms Urszula Rusecka, also asked for an opportunity to answer the questions raised by the High House. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u462	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the parliamentary clubs, members of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family for their positive opinions on the above. draft law, to thank Members of this project, Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Let me remind you that thanks to people of honor, opposition, courage and action in 1956 and 1989, we live in a free, democratic country. On the other hand, I must refer in one sentence to the words set out here by the Civic Coalition concerning the opposition group, which is really an initiative of three people in the draft law, which has entered the committee. Yes, in fact, such proposals of the bill were received by the committee. Thank you very much for these proposals. I would like to remind you that these were further proposals which this initiative group had tabled to the committee. Let me also remind you that at the beginning of this year we adopted the proposals that this group of people had tabled - we adopted the law - and this was also the appeal of 258 signatories. On the other hand, as far as the project and initiative that recently entered the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs is concerned, I would like to assure those who have made these proposals that we have leaned in detail on the provisions and proposals contained in the draft sent to the committee, but we have not been able to give them a run because the solutions contained there have not received positive opinions from the substantive authorities. An example is the proposal to change the definition of cooperation with the communist security apparatus or to introduce a solution on the basis of which they would be published publicly, including in the Public Information Bulletin, the list of persons to whom the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity has been assigned, including the name of that person and the date of confirmation of the status. This raised constitutional doubts. For these reasons, for example, we considered that we could not very much include such records in this act. Nevertheless, thank you very much for all the proposals, I will no longer repeat those words which Mr Jan Kasprzyk said here. I very much thank the Minister and his representative, the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, for their support and assistance in drafting the bill, as well as the Minister Annie Schmidt, representing the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, who leaned over the proposals and the draft law. Thank you so much again from this place. I would like to stress that this is another proposal, another support for opponents beyond those already introduced in the years 2017, 2020 and 2021 into our legal circulation and which are to support our opponents. Thank you so much for working on the bill. I think we will lean on the amendments tomorrow morning so that we can adopt the law at third reading and that these funds can be paid in December. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u463	Thank you kindly, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u464	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project under investigation concerns the granting of a single cash benefit of PLN 3000 as additional income support to persons with a confirmed status as an anti-communist opposition activist or a person repressed for political reasons which have been obtained on the basis of a decision of the Head of the Office for Combatants and Persons Repressed until 31 December 2021. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions. What is the total amount of expenditure to be incurred by the State budget in connection with the planned entry into force of this law? The benefit referred to in the project would be paid by the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons and would be granted by an administrative decision. Should the decisions in the present case be taken at the request of interested parties or will they be issued ex officio? Does the government expect this benefit to be granted in the following years?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u465	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges and on the Senate bill amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges (prints No. 1729, 919 and 1736). I kindly ask Mr Simon the Weather to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u466	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Infrastructure, I have the honour to present a report on the joint meeting of the High Commissions. On the basis of the article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm at its 42nd meeting on 16 November 2021, following its first reading, he addressed a draft law amending the Act on local taxes and charges, print No 1729, and the Senate draft law on local taxes and charges, print No 919 to a joint review by the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. At its joint meeting, the Commission considered it a leading government project to amend the Local Tax and Charges Act, print No 1729, and examined it in detail. One of the most important changes to the contested law is to clarify the scope of the exemption of land with rail infrastructure from property tax occupied by entities which do not carry out railway activities. Currently, regulations in the article. Paragraph 7 1 The Act of 12 January 1991 on local taxes and charges exempts land on which the railway infrastructure is located from real estate tax. This provision is used to avoid taxing the land on which the railway infrastructure is located by non-rail operators. The interpretation of the rules allowed to avoid tax on property tax, among others. through mines or shopping galleries, resulting in the loss of part of the income by the municipalities. The contested law proposes amendments to the article. 7, which seal the exemption scheme and exclude the possibility of using a real estate tax exemption in the case of land or parts of land occupied by undertakings other than those relating to the performance of the railway infrastructure manager's tasks or the provision of services by the operator of a service facility within the meaning of Annex 2 paragraph. 2 and 3 to the Rail Transport Act. Two amendments were tabled during the committee meeting. The first of an editorial and technical nature, the second of which introduces significant substantive changes. The second amendment amended the date of entry into force of the Act of 1 January 2023 as at 1 January 2022. The use of the tax exemption by unauthorised entities motivates the implementation of the rules as soon as possible. The amendment also introduced a provision on the tax exemption for land property, buildings and buildings that are part of a service facility, referring to freight terminals. In view of the issue of notification, the date of entry into force of the regulation in this field remained within 1 January 2023. The amendment received the support of the committee and unanimously over political divisions was adopted by 36 votes in favour. All amendments tabled and the entire bill received a positive recommendation from high committees. The Commissions, after considering the draft law, request the adoption by the High House of the law together with the amendments tabled. Ladies and gentlemen! I also thank you very much on my behalf for being able to change, in particular, the entry into force of the entry into force of 1 January 2023 to 1 January 2022. This is a matter that has touched the local government very much. I am very pleased that we have been able to carry out this change together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u467	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mariusz Trepek. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u468	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding governmental and senate draft laws amending the Act on local taxes and charges, prints 1729 and 919, and the report of the committee, print 1736. The project concerns the clarification of the scope of the real estate tax exemption as regards railway land, in particular land occupied for the operation of railway infrastructure managers and operators. The proposed provision will allow for taxing parts of land, buildings or buildings used for commercial activities, i.e. e.g. leased, rented by entities other than the railway operator or the operator of passenger stations. The entry into force of these regulations should result in an increase in tax revenue to the part of the municipality's budget due to the sealing of the use of tax exemptions in the railway sector. The proposed solutions aim to eliminate the problem raised by local government units of tax avoidance by entities engaged in other than rail economic activities. The date of entry into force of the proposed law following the amendments tabled at the joint committee meeting was 1 January 2022. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the draft law amending the Act on local taxes and charges from the above mentioned above. printing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u469	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mrs Zofia Czernow. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u470	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club in relation to the report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy concerning the Senate and Governmental draft laws on local taxes and charges, print No 1736. During the work of the joint committees, many things were clarified, clarified and obtained a partial compromise, which I am satisfied with. First and foremost - what the project was about - the real estate tax gap is abolished. It's a great relief and joy in self-government. 200 million PLN will be paid to local authorities and will be used to finance the urgent tasks of residents, because this is most often the case for poor municipalities. Secondly, a compromise was reached on the date of entry into force of the law. It was voted that the Act would enter into force on 1 January 2022, which was also sought by our club. In order to do so, additional conditions must, of course, be fulfilled. It is important that the Senate urgently deal with this law, which I think will be passed tomorrow, and that the President can sign it by the end of November, of course by shortening the deadline at his disposal. This will allow the constitutional principle of avoiding... Compliance with the principle that tax laws should be made public in advance, especially when they relate to the annual tax dimension... I think and believe deeply that these principles will be preserved. I very much regret that the project was not analysed at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances. Taxes This is a domain The Public Finance Commission. This prevented an examination of the additional reductions introduced by the project and at least an attempt to determine their financial consequences. We don't know that yet. We still have reservations about the permanent exemption from this infrastructure. I therefore propose an amendment on behalf of the Civic Coalition club so that the exemption from the obligation to pay tax lasts no longer than five years. The idea is that it should be an instrument that mobilises more attention to wealth and its use. Other reductions will require monitoring during the tax year and I believe that the effects of the tax year can be determined in the future. The Civic Coalition Club, bearing in mind the whole project and the consequences it will, of course, support this proposal, hoping that this amendment will be adopted. But, in general, I would like to stress that the process of dealing with this project and the decisions taken above the divisions that are beneficial to local governments of solutions deserve to be emphasised. I think they also deserve to be imitated in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u471	Thank you, Member. Mr Robert Obaz on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u472	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the second reading of the law, we have a great chance, which certainly limits the fact that the local authorities concerned will receive due taxes from 1 January 2022 and will be able to build and renovate roads, schools or kindergartens. Work on the law on amending the Act on local taxes and charges goes beyond divisions, it is important. This is a long-awaited law especially by those municipalities which have encountered abuse of the current provisions of the Act by some non-business operators operating in the railway market, using the tax avoidance rules. This problem has had a huge impact on the reduction of income from real estate tax to municipal budgets and has been known to the government since the entry into force of the unfortunate provisions of the Act on local taxes and charges, nomen omen, dated 16 November 2016. At that time, the changes made to the legislation proved extremely dangerous for the budgets of municipalities. As a result, many of the investments planned by local authorities have not been completed or their implementation has been delayed. An example in the region of Legnica-Jeleniogóra can be the Osiecnica or Novgorodiec. The necklace was forced to refund the overpaid tax for the years 2017 and 2019 in the amount of PLN 3 million. The reimbursement of such an amount for such a small municipality has extremely dangerous financial consequences. Work on changes in the Law on Local Taxation and Charges shows double standards in legislative work carried out by Law and Justice. Some laws are proceded immediately and work on others is prolonged, which means a risk to the financial stability of the local government. What shows a certain spark of optimism is, above all, today's work on this law in the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. Despite some doubts, all political forces in the spirit of belief in the need to ensure stable financial situation and development of municipalities in Poland supported the proposals contained in the present law on amending the Act on local taxes and charges. It is also to be welcomed that, thanks to the amendments introduced at the committee meeting, this law will not wait until 2023, but will enter into force on 1 January 2022. Taking into account the positive views of the municipalities on the provisions contained in this Act and the need to resolve the legal situation as soon as possible, the Left Club will vote in favour of the Act presented by the Ministry of Infrastructure. We are also looking forward to the bipartisan continuation of the bill and the revision of the bill at the next Senate meeting and, no matter how grotesquely it may sound, to the signature of the bill by the President. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u473	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u474	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen. Members! Minister! I think today a few positive signals were sent to the public from the work on both draft laws. Firstly, it is something very rare at all - said the previous speakers - that we are able in the Parliament to lead to such a cross-party, trans-club, common way of thinking about solutions to the problems that are ahead of us. And it seems to me that today and the work within this committee have shown that we are on the right track for this to continue and lead to a happy finale. Secondly, a good, positive signal for many entrepreneurs from various industries, working today in Poland, states that they will be treated in a uniform way, that there will be no equal and equal, who, due to various possibilities, avoided certain situations, were better placed in this market game and derived certain profits from this privileged position. And here we are also on the right track to solve this so that there are no equal and equal entrepreneurs. As far as the coalition club of the Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, the Conservatives are concerned, we are very much in favour of continuing to process these projects in spirit, in order to bring about a situation in which these draft laws would actually eliminate this significant gap on the map of tax regulations. It is also important not to create further possibilities for overinterpreting tax legislation on property rights. I think there's a great chance of that with good faith. At least we as a club of the Polish Coalition, participating in this work, will opt for it and pay attention to it. Surely today as a club, we are determined to finish this work in a very positive way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u475	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń on behalf of the Polska 2050 wheel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u476	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the draft law on amending the Act on local taxes and charges. It is a project that was built from both a government project and a project that was presented by the Senate. The proposed law amends the Act of 12 January 1991 on local taxes and charges. As has already been mentioned many times here, the main objective of this project is to close a certain gap in property tax. As a result of this gap, the tax exemption is applied to different activities, provided that it is carried out on railway land. This is, of course, unacceptable, because this exemption should be granted only to those who carry out railway activities on these railway land, i.e. as regards railway infrastructure or rail transport. And this bill is normal for this situation. I think that the discussion within the committee was very cultural and, most importantly, effective. As a result of this discussion, the original date of entry into force of the law, which was proposed by the government on 1 January 2023, changed. As a result of the amendments which have been notified, the Act will apply, with a small exception, from 1 January 2022. I would like to thank you for adopting this amendment. Two amendments were tabled on this subject. One of them was the amendment of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050, which I had the pleasure of personally reporting during the committee meeting. It seems that this is also a good solution because, from 1 January onwards, this tax advantage, which should not take place, will be terminated and, on the other hand, local communities, i.e. the inhabitants of those towns which have such land which are exempt from real estate tax, will be able to have more money, e.g. for investment expenditure, for renovations or for conducting education. Therefore (The bell) Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u477	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. The first question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u478	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is well known that the maintenance of railway stations in small cities and towns is not profitable. The situation is quite different in large cities, where such facilities serve as shopping centres with numerous shops, catering centres or service centres. The designer, of course, takes account of this problem and reserves the exemption from tax only for parts of these buildings resulting from activities related to the performance of railway infrastructure management tasks. However, I have a question on the example of a railway station in Bydgoszcz, in which a very large surface is occupied by a viewing terrace, although never put into use and not fulfilling its role, but existing. It is not related to railway infrastructure or economic activity. How does the designer see the tax exemption for this type of area? If I could get a written reply, would I be greatly obliged? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u479	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u480	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking here about tax exemptions, we're talking about different properties that are exempt from tax. That's why local governments don't have the right income. Minister! More things and more topics await. I hope that this law, which we are investigating today, will be implemented quickly and that local governments will no longer lose their income. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u481	Thank you. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u482	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Why the Ministry of Infrastructure, with information from local organisations operating in the Joint Government and Local Government Commission and the Group on local development infrastructure, regional policy, and knowing that a group of senators had taken a legislative initiative and even submitted a project to the Senate Marshal on this matter, was not anxious to introduce these extremely important changes for local government? Why is it only after a few years that we are working on a bill that corrects the 2016 error? The scale of the problem that is trying to fix the bill is enormous. Many municipalities across Poland had to pay back millions of PLN of overpaid tax. This has negatively affected the budgets of these municipalities, sometimes paralyzing or delaying planned investments. Is the Ministry planning to pay compensation to those municipalities which have suffered the most financially as a result of the defective legislation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u483	Thank you. Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u484	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For four years, local governments have really lost. Self-governments of regions where companies used this tax gap have lost their taxes. As I said in my speech: Axe - 1 million PLN per year. I have this question: Did you count how many local governments lost throughout Poland and are you planning any return in the form of investment subsidies, a transfer of money to the construction of roads or the renewal of railway infrastructure in these municipalities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u485	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u486	I'm far away, Marshal. We have to leave early. [[Joy in the Chamber]] There you go. Of course I'll listen to your marshal next time. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to get back to the subject I had already signaled, and I would very much ask that the Minister be kind to answer this question in writing. It concerns the railway area, specifically the sidewalk in Bielsk Podlaski, which is to be closed by the end of the year. There is a situation that probably an unfair developer built residential buildings and due to a certain noise level there was a problem among the residents. However, it seems that this siding plays quite an important role in the transport of goods and should be sought to preserve it, of course, by somehow minimizing the nuisance of its functioning when it comes to residents, or by imposing some form of punishment on the developer. On the other hand, I would very much ask that the Ministry be polite to answer (the bell) or is it going to solve this problem, or will it seek to eliminate this siding? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u487	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u488	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! There's this particular case. There were quarryes, a Polish investor bought them. There was a siding, but it wasn't used by the railroad, and a dozen kilometers of demoted railroad. The stone was exported from the quarry by cars that ran over local roads. The investor renovated this line, a siding for more than 20 million PLN and leases it today. This is related to the exploitation of the stone and to the fact that it is currently exported by this route. Question: "Will this tenant, who paid 20 million PLN to build this siding and railway road, continue to pay the tax for several years?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u489	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u490	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Firstly, as this law indicates, 200 million PLN will be sent to local governments next year. And that's what everybody's happy about. But as shown in the last 6 years, local governments, counting this way, lost tax resources of about PLN 1200 million as a result of this sealing. In this connection, have you calculated how much tax money for the land excluded will not go to local governments? And the second question I asked the Minister: Isn't it better to include as many stations as possible in the station program so that this tax can be compensated, among other things. By tenants? I ask you once again about (The bell) the integration of the railway station in Mielec into the railway program. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u491	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u492	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! By the way, it is also worth recalling the problems of local authorities throughout Poland, which are related to the Polish Ład programme. Several hundred million zlotys, which will lose the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, will certainly not compensate for the Strategic Investment Programme or this bill. Bydgoszcz - loss in local taxes PLN 140 million, almost 20 million - Inowroclaw, 10 million - World, 7 million - Nakło, 4 million - Tuchola, almost 5 million - Znin. These are only a few cities in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, and so many losses. I call on the Ministry of Finance to reroute the funds and compensate for the money lost because local governments can't do it without the money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u493	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u494	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think it would be good today to give a clear answer to the question of many entrepreneurs listening to today's debate, as it will be. Will the owner of the gallery, which operates on non-rail land and the one who built the galleries on railway land, operate under similar conditions? In view of the fact that 1/100 or 1/30 are involved, will the owner administering the gallery on railway land launch a traveling activity? And it is a very common case in Poland that galleries were very close to railway stations. Will they function under the same conditions Or not? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think it would be worth giving a clear answer to that question today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u495	Thank you, sir. The list of Members voted on has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Andrzej Bittel to answer the questions raised. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u496	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I, too, am very pleased with this discussion that took place in the plenary room. I am even more pleased with the discussion that took place in the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. There really could have been more issues raised, more specific, and that is why I think the list of questions is shorter. Many things have been clarified in this procedure. As far as the questions concerning the shopping gallery are concerned, to my knowledge, if the shopping gallery was built on a railway site, it has long been excluded from this railway area and is certainly taxed on business tax, property tax related to business activities. Also we will examine these cases, I have verified one, during the work on this project in the Senate I will have verified all galleries built above the tracks, at the tracks, there are several such objects in Krakow, in Warsaw. I'll know that. I'm sure the Krakow Gallery, sir, pays you property taxes. So I would like to leave this gallery slightly on the side, because in this legal order that is in force, and in the one that is designed, those parts of buildings, buildings or land that serve commercial activities should be taxed on property tax. I mean, selling in a shopping mall doesn't directly serve travel. I think we have a common opinion about that, that it is. Therefore, there should be no doubt as to the scope of the tax. The tax authority, the local government has the right to control it, to watch it, to control it. He certainly does that, taking care of his income. Point two. The discussion with local authorities within the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission, as well as in the Senate debate, was long, exhaustive and has already had some effect. The result of this conversation, including this last discussion, is this bill. He was originally a little wider, after a discussion with local governments, with local government corporations is a little shorter. We did not even support the request for an extension of the tax exemption in respect of decommissioned infrastructure. We thought this was a subject that had to be closed. Point three. In my view, the rules in force do not justify exemption from taxation for those businesses in question who benefit from the gap. Only that this gap is not created as a result of the wording of the rules, but as a result of the interpretation by the administrative courts and the case-law in this respect. Therefore, if someone wants to claim compensation, compensation, then I would address such expectations a little bit elsewhere. Thank you very much. I am glad that we will meet again in the committee on the amendment, but it seems to me that it does not concern the text of the law which was adopted in the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u497	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation (prints No 1728 and 1739). I kindly ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u498	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation. The draft is included in print No 1728 and the committee's report is in print No 1739. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is intended to avoid a dispute with the European Commission, which called on Poland to address its failure to provide adequate safeguards for the conservation of forest habitats and plant and animal species in accordance with the requirements of Council Directive 92/43/EEC of 21 May 1992 on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora, i.e. the Habitats Directive, and Directive 2009/147/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 November 2009 on the conservation of wild birds, so-called. Birds Directives. In Call No 2018/ 2208, and then in a reasoned opinion, the European Commission concluded that the wording of the Article. 14b of the Forest Law of 28 September 1991 and of the Regulation of the Minister for the Environment of 18 December 2017 on the requirements of good forest management practice resulted in an infringement of Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 and 2, Article Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) a-d, art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) a and Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No and Article. 9 Birds Directives. High Izbo! Of course, the government does not want this dispute with the European Commission to escalate, and this is where the bill we are talking about is prepared. The amendments contained in this Act include: firstly, repealing the Forest Law, which concerns the requirements of good forest management practice and amending the Nature Conservation Act concerning these requirements of good practice; secondly, adding an article in the Nature Conservation Act. 52b obliging forest owners to apply the requirements of good forest management practice, both in the preparation phase and in the implementation phase of forest management activities, and a provision containing a statutory delegation for the Minister responsible for Forest Management. the environment to define, by means of a regulation, the requirements of good forest management practice taking into account the protection of species, objectives, forest management principles and economic, social and cultural requirements - the same code of good practice will prevent potential collisions in forest management activities with environmental elements; thirdly, clarification in this draft Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 5 Nature Conservation Act based on Art. 12 and Article 12 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 13 of the Habitats Directive by indicating that derogations do not apply to species subject to strict protection under the Directives. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project was launched on 3 November this year. to the Marshal's staff, and 2 days later, on 5 November, was sent to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry with a recommendation to submit a report by 15 November 2021. And it was at that date, on 15 November, that the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry Committee held a meeting, where, first, the first reading of the project was carried out, which, as you know, includes a preliminary discussion, questions from the participants and answers to questions, and secondly, the committee proceeded to work in detail on the project. High Izbo! During the work carried out after the first reading, the committee examined the request for a public hearing of the bill. The proposal provided for a public hearing on 6 December, which would obviously lead to the failure of the designated environmental committee to comply with the deadline for the submission of a report on the project, which is already mentioned on 15 November. This proposal was not supported by a majority of committee members. During the detailed work on the draft, the committee rejected in the vote three packages of amendments tabled by Members of the opposition clubs. These amendments included the deletion of Article. 1 of the project, which would lead to the leaving of Article in the Forest Act. 14b, and that's the article. 14b is most criticised by the European Commission. This is an article which, according to the European Commission, constitutes a broad derogation from prohibitions on highly protected species, in particular species subject to strict protection under the Birds and Habitats Directives. The objective of the amendment, namely the elimination of the dispute with the European Commission, would therefore not be achieved. Of course, these amendments were rejected. In fact, it was that the packages of amendments that were submitted by different clubs were simply repeating themselves. It is difficult to talk about this in detail at the moment because of the lack of time. It should be stressed that the obligations of the owner of the forest, which have so far been laid down in Article. 14b - are defined because this article is still there - they are written in the Nature Conservation Act in the added article. 52b in accordance with the arrangements made by the Government with the European Commission. The second of the problems identified in the amendments under consideration is the restoration of an appeal to Annex II of the Habitats Directive in the Nature Conservation Act. Let me remind you that the Habitats Directive identifies plant and animal species and habitat types important for the Community, for which a Natura 2000 network has been established. Annex II to the Habitats Directive sets out the plant and animal species important for the Community, the protection of which requires the designation of special protection areas, and Annex IV sets out the plant and animal species important for the Community which require strict protection. Therefore, reference to the Annex II, which is present in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of This is not part of the directive. The European Commission considers this unnecessary, unnecessary and, as I say, goes beyond the requirements of the Directive. For this reason, this was removed from the project under discussion from print no. 1728. That is why it was removed from this editorial unit in the government submission. Fortunately, following the rejection of this amendment, this is not included in the report of the Environment Committee either. In addition, the committee, after rejecting the amendments that I have discussed here, adopted a package of legislative amendments proposed by the Legislative Office of the Sejm. High Izbo! The Commission's report in print 1739 was adopted by 13 votes in favour, with four votes against and 10 abstentions. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I ask the High House to adopt a draft law amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Protection contained in the report of the Environmental Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u499	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Kazimierz Matuszna.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u500	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law on amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation. I won't prolong it. The rapporteur has presented the substance of the issue quite comprehensively. It is a short bill, containing only three articles. May I just add that, in addition to adapting to EU legislation, there is also a regulatory element, which results from an analysis of the practical functioning of these laws and introduces a certain, you can say, legal order. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the proposed changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u501	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mrs Urszula Zielińska. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u502	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens I have the honour to present a position towards the government's draft law on amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Protection from Print No. 1728. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is a powerful example of the fact that neither Poles nor Poles nor Polish nature can afford the rule of law and justice. I'll explain why. The project we are discussing is aimed at partially really violating EU law in response to the so-called. the infringement procedure initiated by the European Commission against Poland in 2018 and subsequently due to the failure of Poland to respond properly to the Commission's complaint to the TSUE lodged on 15 July this year. According to the content of the complaint, the first part of the complaint, Poland violated the obligations arising from the provisions of the Council Directive called the Habitats Directive and another directive called the Birds Directive. How? It simply created a broad circumvention of European law by means of a regulation and thus almost completely excluded the management of the Polish forest, including the protection of valuable, dying species of fauna and flora, from EU law. In fact, the Commission notes that Poland has created legal fiction in terms of compliance with conservation orders. In the second equally important part of the complaint, the European Commission argues that Poland illegally restricts its citizens' access to environmental information and the right to an effective judicial procedure. It therefore infringes again the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive, but also the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the Aarhus Convention. The bill we are discussing today is an answer to the first part of the complaint, and this is unfortunately an incomplete and questionable answer. Here are some of them. Removing the article. 14b. 3 of the Forest Act is a positive change but already delete paragraph. 1 and 2 removes a number of obligations imposed by the law on forest owners to protect them. In turn, the proposed Article. 52b in the Nature Conservation Act to which the institution of good forest practice has been transferred raises questions of interpretation. Delete Annex II from the proposed Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. The 5th Nature Conservation Act will constitute a further infringement of the Habitats Directive. There's such a real threat. Criticism is also due to the Ministry of Climate and Environment for the way in which the legislative process is being conducted, because once again the public's participation has been overlooked, and yet, of the horror, just restricting access, the public to environmental information concerns the second part of the European Commission's complaint, which has triggered the need for this revision. These are just some of the reservations I would like to draw your attention to. But there is an even bigger problem. The government amendment we are discussing today does not refer at all to this second, very important Commission complaint, part of the European Commission's complaint against Poland. The Commission raises the problem of Poland's infringement of both natural directives and a number of basic routes. The Polish government disagrees with this opinion and will not present us, as the Minister announced at the committee meeting, even a draft solution to this problem, because it disagrees with the Commission's complaint and the case is in the Court. What does that mean? This means risking further penalties for failure to comply with the law. Already today, Polish taxpayers pay for non-compliance by the Government of Law and Justice, i.e. One million euros a day for the functioning of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court and 500,000. Euro per day for each day of operation of the mine in Turów, that is, please, over 7 million Polish zlotys per day. These are penalties that are already imposed on us today for non-compliance with the law and for creating a legal bypass, such as those contained by the current government in the current version of the law that we are updating. I warn you, as we warned as the Green Party, in Turowa's case this project does not constitute a full response to the complaint to the TSUE and this project puts us under further punishment. As the Civic Coalition Club, I therefore make amendments to this project and I call on the Ministry and the Government to correct errors from the second part of the European Commission's complaint. Without these corrective measures, we will be against this project, because this is, Minister, a ticking environmental and financial bomb, especially since we are dealing with a deep climate crisis and the extinction of species, we really need to protect them. Polish taxpayers and the Polish environment cannot afford the rule of law and justice today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u503	I'm asking for these corrections. Thank you very much. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek on behalf of the Left Club. I'd like your position, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u504	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law is the answer to cases of infringement of European law, which the European Commission is leading against Poland. They concern forest management and show that the current model of action of State Forests is simply bad, and Polish forests, and here we are talking about the most valuable forests, about Natura 2000 forest habitats, are not sufficiently protected. It shows that very often between the exploitation of economic forests and the exploitation of mountain, waterproof and soil forests there is no greater difference, because the economic bill is important and not the protection of natural heritage. And that is a great pity, because the need to protect such forests was understood by the great advocate of enlargement and protection of the Białowieża Forest by President Lech Kaczyński. And it would be worth it after years to return to the law that was created under his [[Applause]] a patronage, which was written by a team of scientists appointed by him. These are some things that should have happened, but let's get back to the matter of violation. Part of it concerns the right of citizens and the citizen to justice in the context of the plans to organise forests, because we are currently dealing with a situation in which the platforms set up a pool, sometimes after a very poor quality consultation, which is an administrative decision, and at the same time there is no appeal path from them. It's a psychic. on a European scale and shows that Polish law was written for a profit-oriented institution, not for citizens who wanted to protect their national heritage, their small homeland. Another aspect of this issue - this is where we touch this novel - is to exclude forest management from the obligations to protect the strict species important for the European Union, i.e. insufficient protection of the species listed in Annex II and Annex IV. But let us be honest, also the protection of species mentioned in the quality regulation protected in Polish law leaves much to be desired. Just talk to scientists working on the Carpathian Forest, looking at the exploitation of these forests, which should be within the borders of the Turnice National Park. Further evidence that the forest economy is not good in Poland is provided by a document "Lasa out of control." Report on selected forest management irregularities in areas of natural value in Poland prepared by the Association of Laboratory for All Beings. These data show the scale and systemicity of the problems caused by the exclusion of forest management from the obligations to protect the strict species. During forest management in Poland, almost 54% of Natura 2000 forest habitats are protected and 28% of the forest habitats are unsatisfied. It's getting worse. This is the data of the European Environment Agency based on data reported by the Ministry of Climate and Environment. This report also shows that about 10% Public forests managed by the State Forests do not have approved plans for the installation of forests, but they were still harvested in wood. Moreover, also those areas that are Natura 2000 natural habitats. Of course, in some parts the procedated novel abolishes this repeal, but I have no doubt that this robbery - yes, I am not afraid to use this word - the robbery forest economy in the areas of natural value will not end with the date of the entry into force of this law. And this is very bad news for all who care about the natural heritage of our country. And that's very bad news for future generations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u505	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb will present the position of the Polish Coalition to the High House. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u506	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law, which concerns the amendment of the Forests Act and the Nature Conservation Act, as the rapporteur also said, is the result of the European Commission's proceedings, which, as guardian of the Treaties, examines in the manner provided for in this verification the degree of implementation or the correctness of the implementation of individual directives into the law of the Member States. In this case, there are two directives: the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive. This is in the part where they have not been implemented in the implementation process, both as regards the Habitats Directive and as regards the Birds Directive. The evaluation of the implementation of these directives, as already stated in the rapporteur's report, resulted in indications and a call for the removal of deficiencies in 2018. 14b Law on Forests together with Code of Good Practice, which is assessed in the committee in a collision with parts of the article. 6, Art. 12 and Article 12 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 16 the Habitats Directive and Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) a, b and d and Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 9 Birds The amendment of these laws is therefore a response to the shortcomings identified by the European Commission regarding these laws. It consists, first, of removing the provisions of good practice from the Forest Act, second, of introducing amended provisions on good forest management practice into the Nature Conservation Act. The obligation to apply these new regulations is also included for forest owners. In addition, I would like to say that the Government's submission and the first-reading discussion show that the novel is, in fact, implementing the indications and meeting the expectations set out by the European Commission in its position of 2018, but there are a number of aspects that were raised in particular during the discussion on behalf of the social side. This concerns among others. the issue of forest management plans and possible access by the civil sector to judicial checks or minimum protection standards in such a context as to meet all the expectations of nature conservation environments or the conservation status of forest habitats included in Natura 2000 areas. I think it is worth noting these voices, although, as I said, this novel meets the minimum expectations of the European Commission regarding the state of implementation of these two directives: the Habitat Directive and the Birds Directive. I think that we will be meeting precisely those issues that I have raised as those that have been discussed in the framework of this draft legislative amendment, because today's discussion also shows that there are far higher expectations both from the scientific community and from the social side. To conclude, I would like to say that the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u507	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u508	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! On behalf of the Circle Poland 2050, I am pleased to present my position on the Law on amending the Law on Forests from Print No. 1728. I'll give you the Marshal of Corrections first. Thank you very much. Of course, we are repeating the same amendments that we tabled at first reading, because the Minister's argument is absolutely insufficient and we believe that these amendments should be included in this proposal. I don't think there has been a government in the history of Poland that hates forests and trees as much as it is in the case of the Government of Law and Justice. This is a government that sees a board factory in the woods, sees only economic value in the tree. At the same time, as we saw at yesterday's committee meeting, you are showing incredible complacency about your own governments and how you protect forests. I must say that this is unbelievable - this contrast between the facts and this complacency. But this generally concerns this power, which is self-satisfied, but people are not satisfied with it. Once again, we see that you want to outsmart the European Union, because indeed these rules go against a few of the European Commission's recommendations, but they certainly do not respond to them in the event of all the shortcomings. As regards the shortcomings in public participation, public access to justice regarding forest planning, there is no improvement here, there is no change here. Once again, you are showing that you are afraid of people, citizens, society, just as this law, which has not been consulted with organisations, has not been subject to extensive public consultation. But let's get back to nature conservation, because that's what's most important. Yesterday, the Director argued that reference to species in Annex II of the Habitats Directive is not necessary, because - in short, I have little time - other provisions will provide for this protection. But this is unfortunately not true and NGOs very clearly point out that it is not true that this law does indeed comply with several of the European Commission's recommendations, but in many places the level of this protection is decreasing. We have a situation today that 10% Foresight is carried out without plans of a forest device, it happens that contrary to the opinion of WDOŚ. Conservation data have already been reported: in 54% of Natura 2000 forest habitats is unsatisfactory (The Bell), 28% deteriorated, etc., etc. Instead of dealing with these problems, you are using some kind of ping-pong with the European Commission. We will vote against this bill... Thank you. ...not just because she... Member, finish up. ...is insufficient in terms of our relationship with the European Commission, but above all because it worsens protection in other areas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u509	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question, traditionally Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u510	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the government what exactly means a return that occurs most commonly in the project. I am talking about the fact that the owner of the forest is obliged to apply the requirements of good forest management practice. Please indicate which official document sets out these good principles for us, what implementing rules we have in relation to these rules, and what penalties are provided for individuals who commit infringements of the good principles referred to in the draft law. And the basic question to the Minister: Did the Polish government manage to prepare a project that meets EU requirements and, in your opinion, remove all irregularities that have been identified by the European Commission? If I could ask the Minister for a written reply, I would be very obliged. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u511	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u512	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law also responds to the European Commission's letter of formal notice No 2018/ 2208 concerning the failure to provide adequate safeguards for the conservation of forest habitats and plant and animal species in accordance with the requirements of Council Directive 92/43/EEC of 21 May 1992 on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora, so-called. the Habitats Directive, and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 November 2009 on the conservation of wild birds, so-called "the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council'. Birds Directives. Minister, please state the date when the European Union called for the resolution of these deficiencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u513	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u514	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact that the rules are against European law was known in 2018. Since then, the government has been keying, avoiding, using some incomprehensible emancipations. And a little bit of you are acting like there's only a flood after you, but no ark for nature, for different species, you don't anticipate. I wanted to ask, Minister, why the Government of Law and Justice does not care about protecting the Polish nature. After all, it is very patriotic. Nature is something that surrounds us, which is our heritage, which is the work of many generations, and it would seem that it must be protected, and you destroy it. Minister, why? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u515	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u516	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When we talk about amending the Law on Forests, complicated legal terms appear, incomprehensible to people details, and in fact the matter is simple. For several years, a bad law has been created, which, instead of increasing nature conservation, limits it. Once the European Commission has pushed you very hard, as with this law, you will withdraw from one rule, but you will still try to circumvent this law from the other side. Why don't you step by step follow all EU directives, including habitat and birds? Are we really low on penalties for violating EU law? We already pay PLN 7 million a day for Turów and the Disciplinar Chamber. Do we want to get more penalties that taxpayers will pay out of their pockets? After all, we should all care about nature conservation, not just some environmentalists, politicians, politicians or NGOs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland and the environment cannot afford PiS governments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u517	Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u518	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We still do not understand why you are actually disturbed in every case by the institution of public hearing, which in this case was proposed by one of the opposition messengers, Mrs Lewis. Why can't we consult with specialists? Perhaps if we were able to discuss with them in substance at committee meetings, we would learn that it is worth extending protection over birds not only to what you proposed in the article. 2. Maybe if we really wanted to lean on this project in peace and openness, which requires change, and on the constructive comments that the opposition has made, this discussion could open your eyes to the real, true and effective conservation of nature, not to the appearances that the state is constantly creating before us. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And why is the Member confined to birds?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u519	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u520	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The European Commission has repeatedly asked Poland, the Polish Government, on the conservation of forest habitats and on the impossibility of challenging the plan of forest installation only in Poland. In all Europe only in Poland there is no possibility of a plan to challenge the equipment of the forest. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill we're working on is only a half-time success. I submitted a letter to Prime Minister Morawiecki in the parliamentary control mode, who replied that he would not make the documents available because the case was pending. So? And it's only half done. I am glad that there is at least protection of forest habitats, but I am asking you where it is possible to challenge the plan for the installation of forests, as the European Commission asks, which also said that it would challenge the absence of this (the bell) to the Court of Justice. You hate our forests so much, you're cutting into power. [[Madame, a little peace of mind, please don't be so feverish.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u521	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u522	PiS politicians often repeat the theory that the forest economy in Poland is conducted in a balanced manner, in accordance with plans to organize forests. This is a false thesis. This is cheating Poles and Poles, and we have evidence to prove it. Over the last 30 years, the acquisition of wood in Poland in forests managed by the State Forests has more than doubled. State 54% Natura 2000 forest habitats in Poland are inappropriate and almost 30% have deteriorated. Between January 2020 and March 2021, at least 2 million m3 of wood were harvested without plans for forest installation. These are the facts that prove that the State Forests do not carry out sustainable forest management. This bill will not solve any of the above. problems. You want to deceive citizens and citizens (the bell) and the European Commission again with this act. But you're not gonna make it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u523	Thank you. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u524	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today, there is a fine example of a public dilemma of superiority of one law over another. European Union law is higher than Polish law, otherwise we would not have adapted these laws to directives. It is worth noting, because this is a concrete example. Secondly, the area of environmental protection is very sensitive and sensitive. There are a lot of activists who won't let go of what's going on in this area. This is due to the fact that this sensitivity is increasingly affecting the Polish society. I will ask if it is worth avoiding EU law, having so many people who follow these relations in environmental protection, and how many more are addressed to the Ministry of Climate and Environment (Dawn) requests to straighten out, adapt Polish law to the EU. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u525	Thank you. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u526	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I was concerned by the words of the Minister at the committee meeting, because the Minister said that you disagreed with the second part of the European Commission's complaint, which has already been filed with the TSUE, and that you will not present a solution to this complaint, and yet the European Commission raises very serious allegations there. It is about access for citizens to the environment, the right to an effective judicial procedure. The Commission raises the violation of the Habitats Directive, the Birds Directive, but also the Basic Treaties, the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, even the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the Convention. How much will it cost us not to comply with this part and not to respond to these allegations from the European Commission? Do you have it counted? Quickly counting, we have today's penalties of 241 360 thousand. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much is this new punishment gonna cost us? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u527	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u528	I will reply to Mrs Zielińska that the penalties that will be imposed on us for circumvention of the law on habitat protection will certainly outweigh the socially questionable and unjustified social benefits of the armed forest management that is currently being carried out in areas which, as expected by Polish citizens and citizens, should be particularly protected. Only 1% The area of Poland consists of national parks, and the area of trees protected in these parks is even smaller. As public opinion polls show, people expect and participate citizens in forest management, and expand protected areas not only of national parks, which should be expected to be 20% protected area, but also peri-urban forests, which have become a delightful bite for developers in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] People who are aware of the dangers of climate change are also increasingly expecting... Thank you. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050. Thank you, Member. Member, please don't abuse... ...that they will become an area of special protection. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u529	Mrs Joanna Mucha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u530	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Many of my previous speakers and previous speakers have asked why you insist that society still does not have access to justice in relation to forest planning. I'd like to ask you exactly what the real reason is. Why are you putting us in danger, Minister, of these great punishments? What's the real reason? Explain that to us. For what reason can you not agree that Polish citizens and citizens can appeal to the court about plans to organize forests? What's the harm in that? What's bothering you people who are gonna look at your hands? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bobby's seen how much they cut.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u531	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u532	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you to answer the question of how many forests have been cut out in Poland in the last 6 years, with a particular breakdown for years and voivodship. That's a legitimate question for two reasons. Law and Justice is a government that wants to turn Polish forests into sawmills. He would like Polish forests to be cut out quickly, efficiently and to make a lot of money. If so, I would also like to be informed of the funding received by the State Forests in comparison with the corresponding period 6 years back from 2015, i.e. from 2009. This comparison will be an opportunity for us to be able to honestly answer the question of whether the Law and Justice Government is a great lumberjack or whether it is really fighting for the protection of forests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u533	Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice. One last question at this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u534	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! 38% the land area of Natura 2000 areas has been designated in the State Forests. This shows the highest level of forest management, which has led to such a state that we have such great stands that Natura 2000 was designated there - 38%, despite the fact that forests occupy only 25% of the area of our country. Ladies and gentlemen! We listen to calumnia thrown at Polish foresters, on the Polish forestry model, and since 1992 there has been a law on forests which obliges us to conduct forest management on an ecological basis. And the foresters carry out this by respecting the Forest Act, the Nature Conservation Act and the Environmental Act. [[Then why don't you?]] Also, ladies and gentlemen, you have failed to privatize the forests of your governments, so today you are throwing defilements and trying to derail the forest economy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[What are you saying? We never tried.]] A sustainable forest economy and forests that serve society as a whole. He doesn't have permission to do that. Thank you very much. [[Don't tell me!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u535	Thank you. Member, please. You had your time to ask a question, you did not disturb me. [[But how can you lie like that?]] Things happen to you, too, but we try not to disturb each other. [[We've heard your bullshit calmly, so you guys act normal, too.]] The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Minister Edward Siarka. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u536	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you very much for the discussion. At the outset, I would like to address a number of points that need to be corrected. Ladies and gentlemen, in this discussion, unfortunately, not only from this tribune, but also often in the public debate, there are concepts that are not legally present at all. I'm talking here about the terms that were quoted from this tribune, for example. the concept of Carpathian Forest or Turnic National Park. There's no such thing as that. I'm afraid that's what you've come up with. [[Voice from the room: It's a shame.]] [[It wasn't me.]] No, no, of course, not the Member. [[Because you're looking at me.]] I'm just looking in that direction. But legally, to be clear, we don't have that kind of concept at all. On the other hand, they often fall and mislead the public a little. Another thing. Today, plans for forest equipment are not issued on the basis of an administrative decision. This is not an administrative decision in the sense that you say it is subject to action or should be subject to action. Of course, there are trials, but so far the plans of the forest equipment are approved by the minister and we are trying to keep it up to date. You also say that foresters acquire wood when there is no Minister's signature at any given time under a given plan for the installation of the forest. Please bear in mind that, anyway, this is some kind of forecast, where there are also documents relating to conservation plans or environmental impact decisions. And then, even if there's no formal signature yet... There are isolated cases that actually there is no signature. But this is not a scale that would cross all the protective tasks that are carried out on a national scale. I would like to make it clear what Mr Bąk has also said. Ladies and gentlemen, today is 80%. all forms of protection that we have implemented in Poland are on the land of state forests. That's 80%. In fact, 38% of forests are covered by Nature 2000. And only thanks to the hard work of the foresters, I want to say this very clearly, all these forms of protection are maintained. With all the rigors. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine that suddenly the foresters do not deal with all these forms of protection. What's wrong with them? They would either be completely neglected, or they would cease to perform their function, or they would simply be completely out of control. Today we can say that all these forms of protection thanks to the work of foresters are preserved. They're actually our good. And there's nothing to dissuade it from. I don't know why we're so stubbornly trying to accuse foresters of being misguided by our natural interests. Well, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the plans for the forest are concerned, we have a full public involvement in the development of forest equipment plans. This process is completely transparent and... [[Then why is the Commission picking on you?]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about the fact that there are environments that would like all these decisions and at every stage to be able to challenge. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in Polish law, these decisions or plans of forest equipment can be challenged even though they are not strictly legal administrative decisions. And we have cases like this. If anyone wants to sue at any stage a plan for a forest device, they can do it. We are showing this to the European Commission. We do not agree with the European Commission in this respect, and this issue is therefore not regulated in this project. We do not agree with what we have pointed out in the reply which the Republic of Poland sent to the complaint, that in some way there are limited civil rights related to the fact that these decisions are not being challenged. In this respect, we disagree with the European Commission. I want to make it very clear that this government project we are working on today has been fully agreed. In this respect, we have concluded that there is no point in having a legal dispute with the European Commission regarding the so-called. issues relating to habitat and species conservation. We agreed on that. Since the European Commission considers that the current provisions of the Article. 14b Forest Laws are too broad a derogation, so we said: well, let's face this issue and try to reorganize this issue. Thus, as the committee suggested, which was also the result of the negotiations under way, we concluded that for a certain legal order these entries would be included in the Nature Conservation Act. They were once in the Nature Conservation Act and as if they were all covering this complex of security-related tasks. We agreed with the European Commission on this, as well as with the European Commission we agreed on the so-called. Code of good practice. And here we are, so to speak, on the right track, to at least not to argue on this issue, which, we believe, serves nothing so completely, although we do not agree with the whole argument of the European Commission. Poland, when joining the European Union, agreed to pass on some of its national and national powers to the European Commission. This is also as if the answer to Mr Dyduch's question, namely whether we recognise here the superiority of EU law. This is not about the superiority of EU law, we have agreed, when we join the European Union, that when it comes to nature conservation, we will agree on these issues and respect EU rules, and we are therefore moving away from any legal dispute. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say very clearly that, as far as our forest resources are concerned, we have increased the wood resources by 100% in Poland in the last 30 years, against all the accusations that fall here. 100%. If you look at the data from the '60s, then... [[...Mister the little ones.]] No, it's the data from the '60s. Then we had the resources of a tree around 150-170 m3, today we have around 250 m3 per hectare. [[These are cut out too.]] So we're not just increasing resources, because if we were to accept the state's argument, it would have been a long time ago. There is no such thing as your preaching, like cutting. There is no such thing as cutting in Poland. The only case where there really is permanent deforestation and clipping are road investments. This is the only case. In any other case, at the Ministry level, we examine all plans, including local ones, as well as various proposals from local authorities. I must say that such proposals are negative if they do not actually include typical investment, infrastructure activities such as road construction, some pipeline or, let's say, electricity networks. In any other case, any attempts to deforestate properly shall be negative. I would also like to say very clearly that everything that we are talking about today, as we have talked about today from this stand, as you have said, is a legally complicated procedure. It is even difficult to quote from memory the articles that we refer to when we are talking about the Habitats Directives or the Birds Directive. Nevertheless, I would like to say very clearly: on a good matter all these forms of protection would not have been able to function properly if there were no foresters, except for the hard work of foresters who really show great concern that all these habitats, so that all species... Besides, the foresters proved by the fact that many species, by the way and hunters, who saved many species in Poland that were doomed to extinction... It is thanks to the hard work of foresters that these species in Poland can function, from the bison to species such as lynx, pussy and many others that could be mentioned as those that were doomed to extinction. I repeat: on the land of the State Forests we have 80% all forms of protection and they function well only through the work of foresters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u537	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Anna Paluch, also asked for the floor. I, too, appeal to the Member with a brief and concise statement, because we are already behind schedule.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u538	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to some of the more bizarre statements that have been made here in questions or club speeches. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that the deletion of the article. 14b is a photo of the owners of obligations regarding proper forest management. I was talking about it in my first statement. Those obligations shall be transferred to Article. 52b Nature Protection Act. So please, as if you didn't say so. It's not true here. Similarly, the reference to Annex II to the Habitats Directive is deleted. I told you, I'm not gonna tell you again. Ladies and gentlemen! What particularly upset me is - I apologize for the expression - judging Polish foresters from worship and faith. And I will say this again with all responsibility: anyone who has worked within the environmental committee reliably and analyzes the information presented annually about the state of forests and forestism will not tell such heresy, ladies and gentlemen. The state of Polish forests is the result of almost 100 years of work by Polish foresters. And as has already been said: if 38% of Natura areas are areas of State Forests, this is more than in the case of the ratio of forests to the whole area of Poland. I think you, ladies and gentlemen, should be the ones to think. And once again, the State Forests are not a profit-oriented institution, as some have emputated here, but an individual who harmoniously combines the various functions of forests in forest management... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] ...and economic, and environmental, and waterproof, and touristic, and all other functions. So no historical declarations can change that, ladies and gentlemen. And one more thing: we were epatched with these amounts of cubic meters of wood cut out. Let's just assume that you're cutting out a fraction of the growth. If forests were actually bred by foresters for several decades, the abundance is increasing and more can be cut than it was 15 or 20 years ago. Because the forest is properly cultivated. It's easy, isn't it? Like the construction of a cepa, and the state just doesn't accept it at all. Speaking of stories about whether Poland can afford the rule of law and justice. Madam, you'd like to listen. At the time when the Government of Law and Justice took responsibility for state affairs, there were 21 infringement proceedings in the Ministry of the Environment. At the judicial stage, which is cases like the one we're discussing today, there were six and they threatened to be punished. At the stage of the reasoned opinion, there were eight. There were also six and one proceedings at the stage of filing formal pleas in law relating to the absence of notification. So really detract from your chatter, get down on the ground and don't make false accusations - your electorate listens. It's okay, folks, listen to what you're saying. I'm sorry, I'm disappointed that you've made the same amendments that we rejected in the project after first reading, and you haven't come up with anything new. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] However, I would like to thank the sensible clubs for their declaration of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u539	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen! The competent committees have submitted reports on urgent government draft laws: - having specific rules for the remuneration of persons carrying out cybersecurity tasks, - amending the Law on the Protection of the State Border and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 1753 and 1756 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in discussions on these items of the agenda the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Public Finance with an urgent government draft law on the special rules for the remuneration of persons performing cybersecurity tasks (prints Nos 1743 and 1753). Politely, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u540	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Commission for Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, together with the Commission for Public Finance, today considered an urgent government bill on specific rules for the remuneration of persons performing cybersecurity tasks, print No 1743. The project envisages the creation of a Cybersecurity Fund to finance ICT benefits for people working in cybersecurity jobs in the country. This will ensure competitive remuneration for cybersecurity professionals employed in public administration and special services. The creation of the Cybersecurity Fund is part of the objectives set out in the Cybersecurity Strategy of the Republic of Poland for the years 2019 The Fund will serve the implementation of specific and specific tasks. The amount of remuneration for work or salary, including the provision of ICT, may be up to a maximum of 21 times the basic amount for members of the civil service corps as laid down in the Budget Act. The draft rules lay down the basic principles relating to the granting, payment and withdrawal of the ICT benefit. The proposed solution fosters the provision of highly qualified staff to public entities dealing with state cybersecurity. It will allow for halting the drain of skilled workers and the employment of new experts. At today's joint committee meeting, five substantive amendments were tabled by members of the Law and Justice Club and a package of legislative amendments tabled by the Legislative Bureau. They were adopted and the whole of the law was positively assessed by the joint committees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u541	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u542	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law on special rules for the remuneration of persons carrying out cybersecurity tasks, print No. 1743. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a law that should not cause much controversy, because we are all aware of the need for it. It is a law that says that all people working for Poland and who are protecting our security in cyberspace will be able to receive financial allowances. The purpose of this regulation is to ensure that these salaries in the various institutions are at a similar level so that they can compete with the market, which has now greatly accelerated the increase in the remuneration of cybersecurity experts and that those experts we have, whom Poland has developed, trained and who are excellent professionals, maintain and resist competition from the private market. The project envisages the creation of a Cybersecurity Fund, which will finance ICT benefits for people working in cybersecurity jobs in a country in key areas of state security. Its responsibility will be the Minister responsible for IT. The creation of the Cybersecurity Fund is part of the objectives set out in the Cybersecurity Strategy of the Republic of Poland for the years 2019 The provisions of the draft law lay down the conditions for applying for funds from the Cybersecurity Fund to cover the costs of ICT provision and other costs associated with it. The draft rules lay down the basic principles relating to the granting, payment and withdrawal of the ICT benefit. Thus, the proposed solution promotes the provision of highly qualified staff to public entities engaged in cybersecurity. This will stop the drain of skilled workers and the employment of new experts. The strengthening of staff in the area of cybersecurity is particularly important due to the significant increase in incidents and cybercrime at present. According to the report by CERT Poland the number of incidents in 2020 increased by 60.7% as from 2019 The Law and Justice Club welcomes the bill submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u543	Thank you kindly. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka will make a statement on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u544	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that there is no doubt that this - and there is a need - is that specialists who are responsible for security in cyberspace should be well rewarded. It is important to increase the competitiveness of the public sector in this area and to give the best professionals in this field the opportunity to make the money that companies that operate in the ICT market can offer them. That's crucial, and there's no doubt about it. The only thing that raises doubts is how to achieve this goal, because with the objective that has been set out in this proposal, we all agree and say that this is needed. I would also like to say that I have no doubt that this is a quick fire extinguisher due to this huge scandal and scandal that took place in the government when the e-mails from the private mailbox of Minister Dworczyk were revealed. Unfortunately, many members of the government, and above all the Minister, have shown themselves not to care about cybersecurity, but some kind of cyberbravoure, because they used private mailboxes, private correspondence to write about matters often of state importance. I would like to point out that this draft law should be modified if it were to serve this issue well. I would also like to draw attention to a number of fundamental issues and present the amendments which I will now pass on to you by the marshal. It is indicated in this bill that the additional money to be sent to these specialists will reach about 1000 people and in the following year it will amount to about PLN 150 million. The source is partly the state budget, partly the revenue of the Scientific and Academic Computer Network, while the third source would be the Wideband Fund. The issue of financing this under this law and the Cybersecurity Fund and thus providing an allowance to these wages raises the greatest doubts for several reasons. Firstly, the Scientific and Academic Computer Network is a body specialized in taking care not only of cybersecurity, but also of many other issues. It has the task of carrying out research and development in various fields: ICT, telecommunications, cybersecurity and IT. I believe that we are convinced, as the Civic Coalition, that the money that is in this institution should serve precisely these purposes, should not be taken away for payments to officials. If payouts are to be higher and these people are to earn what real private market professionals earn, then this money should be found in the state budget. That's what the budget is for, to transfer money for wages. The money that is in NASK should not be used for these purposes. The same applies to the Wideband Fund. It was established last year and serves the construction of broadband networks, thanks to which it is possible to purchase telecommunications services and telecommunications equipment for those who are most in need. It is a fund that provides training for the development of digital competences. This is a fund that's supposed to eliminate white spots, places where there's no Internet access, and that's exactly what it should be for. Why do you want to take this money out of a target that's crucial? Let me repeat: if there is to be money for high salaries for specialists, look for them in the budget. You can find them. The amount you proposed is PLN 150 million a year. That is why I would like to make three amendments. The first amendment assumes that the money from the Wideband Fund is in the Wideband Fund and serves to achieve the objectives for which the Fund has been set up. At the same time, I would like to propose that the budget of the State increased by PLN 100 million for remuneration. It's about the government finding that money in the budget. He did not spend money on insignificant things, but on salaries for specialists who deal with cybersecurity, taking care of the security of Poles in cyberspace. Therefore, I propose that the amount allocated to remuneration should be increased by PLN 100 million. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the basic part of the scientific resources of the Academic Computer Network is available (the bell) so that the amount that was allocated there is reduced from PLN 100 million to PLN 10 million. Thank you very much, sir. Last sentence, Marshal. Let's hope it doesn't expand. The third amendment states that the report on the spending of funds should be prepared by the body which is indicated in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and not by the Commission for Special Services. I'm talking about a committee that deals with ICT issues. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u545	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome. Mr President, you are still taking time. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u546	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The market for new technologies is growing faster every year and cybersecurity is one of the key areas of economic development. Networking, information systems have become a central element of government management, which has translated into an increase in cyber threats. Attacks of this type can be caused, first, by carelessness, second, by a desire to earn money. There are no people and institutions that are not exposed to cybercrime. Even the health care area has to deal with attacks on clinics or hospitals or attempts to steal our medical records. The role of the State is to create the conditions for dealing with such situations. A high level of cybersecurity is crucial to protecting people. Secure cyberspace is also a guarantee of rapid development, adequate digital transformation and full economic and social exploitation of the benefits of digitalisation. After all, cyber prevention is responsible thinking. The important thing is how to protect yourself from the attack, not just how to react to it. The changing cyberworld around us is one of the foundations of a responsible state. In a globalised society, no structure of power can allow itself to minimize such problems. Poland should also continue to increase its resilience to digital threats. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have not known whether all government activities are consistent with such thinking. There was also no political agreement to increase the level of cybersecurity, which resulted in the disgrace of key government officials. The priorities for cybersecurity were often mistaken. It is worth noting that these priorities should include areas such as identity protection, personal data protection, critology and application security. The long-standing negligence of digital security, the shell of the state, which is so important, has caused data trading to flourish in Poland. Companies and public institutions have low security features. Of course you can say that threats start where there is no consciousness, but this is a shallow diagnosis. Human resources are a key role, because it is impossible to talk about the cybersecurity of the state if we do not deal with those who are responsible for them. It is worth asking here whether the state employs competent people to protect the cyber world from attacks. Surprisingly in the case of the PiS, the answer is yes. But there's another side to the coin. Are there enough of these people? Unfortunately, the answer is no, there are far too few. The cause of this condition is wages. The demand for cybersecurity specialists in Poland is best described by numbers. Seven job vacancies per candidate and an average salary of 15 000. zł is a private area. The average wage in the budget area is 6 000. zł This difference is colossal and that is why we have such differences in the potential of people who work for you. The regulations should be well prepared and therefore the Left has tabled a number of amendments. It is incomprehensible for us to limit the maximum limit of expenditure from the state budget in 2022 to 150 million and to 100 million in the following years. We want it to be more money. We assume the Ministry will agree to this. The Left also hopes that the laws will be prepared so that they will not be politicised, because then we could not support this project. Cybersecurity is a chance for a normal future. We should build a good law. Thank you very much. I'm making amends. You will finish Mr Shopiński. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u547	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u548	Cybersecurity is currently one of the most important areas of life for Poles, which needs to be defined in every area, especially in the area of salaries of people carrying out tasks in this area. Increases for cybersecurity administrations are essential at the moment. These increases should be worthy and meet market conditions. The Left has been calling for the cybersecurity sector to be well subsidised for months, because only then will this sector be safe. As far as our work on this bill is concerned, we're talking about cybersecurity. We're gonna be working on this bill. We say, not for politics in cybersecurity. We wouldn't want that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u549	Thank you, sir. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u550	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on the special rules for the remuneration of persons carrying out cybersecurity tasks entered the Sejm yesterday. This morning we discussed it for the first time at the joint meeting of the Commission: Digitisation and Public Finance. Just a few hours later, the project is the subject of a second reading, namely the current late-night debate. This is his greatest weakness. Limited time to get acquainted with detailed records, practically no time to consult experts and practices, for example in such an important area as the transfer of public funds from one public fund to another, this is not good legislative practice. Urgent examination of draft laws should be and usually was reserved for projects that actually responded to a sudden situation that unexpectedly resulted, such as what is happening on the Polish-Belarusian border, and after all, problems with cybersecurity of high government officials appeared in Poland many months ago. We even had a secret Sejm meeting on the subject. The second element that we do not like about this project is the freedom to spend these funds, in the remuneration of employees, officials, cybersecurity representatives in individual state institutions. Knowing the practice of the functioning of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki, we may be fully concerned that not so many of the best of professionals, but those who have agreements, are passive, often dim, but faithful, will be rewarded above average. It is about qualifications required from people who would deal with cybersecurity in Poland. However, we want to make it clear that in the reality of the modern world, where new, very dangerous weapons, such as cyber attacks, such reinforcements, also financial, people, services dealing with cybersecurity of the Polish state, are necessary, necessary and worth our support. Therefore, on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, which includes the Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, I declare that we will vote in favour of this project. We will vote in favour of the proposed changes and solutions, hoping that they will have a tangible effect in the form of security of the Polish energy system, security or ensuring effective operation of the services responsible for the security of our homeland and its citizens. We will support this bill, but at the same time, Minister, we will account for its consequences. If in a few months it turns out that we are dealing with another e-mail scandal at high levels of power, if it turns out that Polish services are helpless to Eastern specialists working for online gangs, whether for the special forces there, we will demand an effective and strict settlement of your government's actions, which will prove ineffective, because for this purpose big funds are allocated, from which really very, very solid wages will be paid. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u551	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, on behalf of the Confederate Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u552	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Every time we talk about obvious issues and of course, of course, the cybersecurity of the state is a question about the system. Where this plot is placed systematically in state policy, and not only from the civil administration that we are talking about today. After all, we had this speaker many years ago, but for this government, I mean. for the government of this party, assurances that cyber forces will be appointed. We had assurances that the whole wide range of issues with which the cybersecurity of the state is connected would be specifically addressed under special supervision. In the meantime, it's six years of your rule, and you can't see any system. As actually in any area of public administration, there is no system in this one that you would have proposed. There's running from fire to fire, which was clearly shown by Minister Dworczyk's e-mails. This is continuous crisis management, where there is no strategic thought. And that's shocking. There is no strategic thought in this state management of yours. Or, for example, The issue of civil cybersecurity, the government is correlated with military cybersecurity, from the military side? I don't know, and I doubt it. I doubt it, because if we have, for example. the press conference by Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński with Minister Błaszczak, at which the last one speaks so captivatingly that the Deputy Prime Minister falls asleep, and actually the number of 250,000. Or 300,000. The soldiers are pulled completely out of the hat as a propaganda stunt, and the right postulates about the army are mixed with propaganda, and everything is just to justify leaving the government at the beginning of the year by Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński, I ask: Where is the strategy? Where's your long thought of the state? Because you can't see him in any area and you can't see him in the cybersecurity area either. One of my previous speakers talked about the fact that many months ago it was obvious that we had a serious problem in the Polish state in the form of this scandal, in the form of these leaks, e-mails. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the cyber attack on the Polish state from various sides continues and will continue. Attack on political, military, economic institutions - this is reality. Hybrid war understood in a network way is not something that happens in today's world, it goes on and various actors are involved in it. From here we can't afford to patch holes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We need a system. Question: "What does this system look like?"
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u553	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska on behalf of the Poland 2050 wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u554	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The form of financing additional salaries for those carrying out cybersecurity tasks is undoubtedly questionable. It seems that bureaucracy, administration on the state side is growing unnecessarily, and it does not actually bring much. That's not enough, the question is, is this form really for the safety of people employed? However, it is clear that the best professionals should work to safeguard the interests of the state and its security in the cyber world. The Polish government today has really great cybersecurity professionals and cannot afford to lose them. Polish response teams to cyber threats both in NASK and in ABW work very well, bring us glory. It is our common interest to keep these outstanding specialists in the administration structure, so we will support this project, Minister. Unfortunately, the worst link in the whole system is the members of the Law and Justice Government, as we have seen in recent months. On this occasion it is probably worth recalling where the fashion for cybersecurity came from in Poland. [[Fashion?]] After all, it started with the e-mails of Minister Dworczyk, organized hybrid action ordered from the territory of the Russian Federation, as explained by the Minister at the meeting of the Committee on Innovation and Digitisation, which took place in June, ladies and gentlemen. To this day, no one has actually given us detailed information about this attack. Perhaps the presence of the Minister today is a good opportunity to say what the Polish services have agreed on this matter. Maybe the Minister can tell us today what he's verified six months after these events and who really attacked us. Perhaps it is worth recalling today the questions that we do not know the answers to today? Do the servants have a copy of the mailboxes of Mr Dworczyk, Morawiecki and Brudziński? Do you know which publications are true and which are false? Who else was conducting business correspondence based on private resources? Finally, was order restored at government level and rules implemented, and are these principles respected by government members? I'm gonna ask you in English, Minister, if you're really ashamed of what's going on. 'Cause we've been reading what's been going on in the last few months. No, not even the best-paid professional can protect us and you if we don't have self-control. As Albert Einstein said, no one (the bell) and nothing can protect us from our own stupidity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u555	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka on behalf of the Polish Case Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u556	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Cybersecurity is a matter that talks a lot about, but very little is done. That's why it's a good thing we're discussing this at the Sejm this time. It's a good thing that bill came out. Of course, it's not perfect. My previous speakers have made a number of mistakes that would be worthwhile to be corrected in further work. Mr Szopiński spoke about the fact that it was for cybersecurity, but not for policy in cybersecurity. I'm signing off on that, of course. Mr Carrot also spoke about a number of important matters, including: doubts about the financing of this project. I, too, am not convinced that taking money from others, including important institutions, is the best way to strengthen our cybersecurity now. So, Minister, I think it's worth thinking about, it's worth taking to heart the amendments that have been made. Let us develop cybersecurity, invest in those who will ensure that we are safe, but not at the expense of other institutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u557	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. Please, traditionally, Mr Jan Szopiński asks the first question, the Left Club. Mr... [[He's coming, he's coming. He's gotta think about it.]] [[You can always write your fellow Member as second.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u558	Dear Minister, I wanted to ask about the media information on the crisis, which is today in one of the most important institutions dealing with digital security in the country. According to the staff of the institution, their boss was forced to leave thanks to political pressure. I'm talking about the CERT team. They wrote an open letter to the Prime Minister and do not rule out that they will also leave this institution. I would therefore like to ask what the government knows about this matter and what action it has taken on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u559	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u560	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Increasing cybersecurity incidents and emerging new threats as well as increasing availability of public services on-line means that public institutions responsible for cybersecurity need to have highly qualified staff. The market for cybersecurity professionals is very competitive and we all know that very well and the wages in the private sector are very high. Minister! Do you believe that the amount of remuneration for work or salary, including the provision of ICT, may be up to a maximum of twenty times the basic amount for members of the Civil Service Corps set out in the Budget Act? Will this amount keep these specialists in the Ministry and subordinate units? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u561	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u562	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you two questions. The first point is why this support is foreseen in this form. However, it seems that a favourable and normal solution would be to ensure that the managers of the units have adequate financial resources available in the budget and that these funds cover the remuneration of persons who work in specialised positions, clearly legitimising the qualifications needed in such a position. Regulation in the form of a fund indicates that there is some institutional weakness and the managers of individuals do not seem to understand this problem when it is necessary to create a special fund. The second question concerns persons and records, which will be placed in one of the hands of the Minister responsible for digitalisation, who will have information (The Bell) on how many people throughout the country are concerned with security. Thank you. Mr President, you are out of time every time you ask. The question is, is it safe, given the case of Minister Dworczyk? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u563	Thank you. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u564	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The European Commission presented its work programme for 2022 on 19 October. The programme, which includes 42 legislative initiatives, including six main objectives, has been developed on the basis of the 2021 State of the European Union message. One of the six main objectives is the goal of a digital age: Europe. A significant step towards strengthening cybersecurity response and defence is to be envisaged in a European act on cyber resistance. It aims to introduce common EU cybersecurity resilience standards in response to current and constantly emerging risks arising from the increasing dependence of societies and economies on digital solutions. Minister! I wanted to get a written reply as our government finds itself in this programme, especially in the context of the famous e-mails (the bell) of Minister Dworczyk. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u565	Thank you. Mr Marek Rutka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u566	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Cybersecurity issues are important and should be treated in a very professional way. There are few people in key positions in Poland who have done as much for cybersecurity as Minister Dworczyk. It's precisely about a penetrating private e-mail box of the Minister's use for national purposes. The e-mail about vice-ministers - decent people in green - caught the attention of Internet users to the security problem in the network more than the most expensive billboard campaign realized for taxpayers' money. The fact that this draft law is considered as a matter of urgency within only 3 days of its entry into the Sejm, while e.g. The Pomeranian Metropolitan Act has been waiting 360 days for this, proving that the so-called. boxkagate has played an important role in the express pace of proceding this Act. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u567	Thank you. Mr Robert Gontarz, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u568	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! The issue of cybersecurity of Poland is the same issue of national security as energy security, social security and perhaps even military security. We see at this point that cyber attacks are being carried out worldwide on various kinds of institutions, but also on energy infrastructure, which happened in the United States, for example. That is why we must take this matter very seriously. I am very pleased that this draft law has entered the Sejm and we are discussing this today, both within the committee and at this moment. Unfortunately, it is saddening that a large proportion of the opposition voted against this law in committee. I hope that at this point you will make the decisions to be in favour of outstanding experts getting the basic salary they deserve. Here is the question, Minister, will the remuneration of cybersecurity experts be chasing market prices in connection with this bill? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u569	Thank you. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, Lewiat Club. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u570	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My esteemed predecessor made a nice introduction to my question because I really wanted to seriously reflect on these salaries. The impact assessment refers to 300 million PLN per year, and since it concerns a thousand people, it is not difficult to calculate that this is 300 000. On your head. Pretty much, yeah. That's $25,000. A month, I understand, additionally, Minister. There'll be an opportunity - you'll probably make it right. So my first question is, how much is this group of thousands of people making on average at the moment? So we don't overdo it. Because if we give them another $25,000. a month, or 300,000 a year, so it might turn out that these are the amounts that people don't even make in the private sector. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u571	Thank you. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u572	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm really impressed by your ability to find and spend public money. Click and we've got 350 million to spend. Why don't you help the finance minister find the money to raise the tax administration? The revenue of the state budget depends on the work of customs and treasury inspectors. Meanwhile, this tax administration lacks skilled staff and the best leave. That's enough, they're going to the dark side of the power. In fact, this poses a threat to the security of the state's finances. They've been asking for an increase in wages since 2017, and meanwhile they're getting scraps. Or maybe you're wasting your time at KPRM, and you should take care of finding money for salary increases in other areas as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u573	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u574	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speakers often mentioned the leaking of Mr. Dworczyk's e-mails. Unfortunately, it was a disgrace. By the way, Minister, I would like to ask whether members of the government, as well as all those key to security, are undergoing additional cybersecurity training for the functioning of the state, whether they actually apply to this training, whether it is just rehearsal, a signature under the statement that this training has been carried out. Because I have the impression that if it was done, then either some have forgotten how to protect their data, their emails, their social media, and if they haven't forgotten, then apparently something in these trainings didn't play. Please answer whether such trainings are taking place.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u575	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u576	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Does the Minister have any information on what it looks like to pay highly qualified cybersecurity specialists in state services in other countries? We've heard a little bit about Estonia here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u577	Thank you. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u578	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Minister for this bill. It's a very important bill. Cybersecurity matters are extremely important to all of us. I am thinking here of these effective actions already taken by the Government of Law and Justice. I am convinced that this law should be adopted before the adoption of a law which sets up the Central Cybercrime Bureau. I think it is extremely important that this law be adopted first. Cybersecurity activities have been taking place for many, many years. Let's remind you that there are special cybersecurity, cybercrime departments in every police station. We're also talking about calling the Cyberspace Defense Army. This concept has already appeared (The Bell) in February 2019 and today... Thank you. ...are already those provisions in the Defense Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u579	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u580	Minister! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the Minister, because we often have no opportunity, a slightly different matter, but connected with cybersecurity - to revise the national cybersecurity system. I wanted to ask you who they're consulted with, there were consultation provisions on the non-stop award of part of the 700 MHz band to the operator of the strategic security network. I'm not saying it's wrong, I just wanted to ask what that consultation looked like. Similarly, I wanted to find out who agreed and tried the law that would consider manufacturers of devices and software to build a telecommunications network to be high-risk suppliers, HRV, and the need to replace the equipment they bought from them. I am asking, first of all, about the private market, because it is clear and clear in the SSB that such solutions are necessary for the security of the State. But what I'm asking is that there's information in the committee that it's going to cost hundreds of billions of dollars to replace this equipment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u581	Thank you. One last question, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u582	I'm just saying one sentence. A country that needs a separate bill to give up computer scientists, it's a really sick country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u583	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask you to reply to the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Janusz Cieszyński. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u584	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First, I'd like to refer to the club positions. I most certainly enjoyed the position presented by Mr Marchewka. The Member has proposed revolutionary changes in the transfer of money from one pocket to another. I was so interested that I checked how cybersecurity was financed under the Civic Platform. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a programme where there were very ambitious plans, how to support cybersecurity, how to do it. In the end, you always write about the sources of funding. You'll never guess - there's no money and there won't be, all without any additional resources. And today the funds are, but wrongly granted. We're very sorry. Of course, you are very keen on the cybersecurity system, so the second question is: How many members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform voted in favour of the law on the national cybersecurity system in 2018? Answer: zero. That's how you care, and that's the reality. [[Ooh...]] And that's the difference between you and the real total opposition from all the other clubs. Maybe it wasn't very nice, but you have constructive and rational comments, and above all you see the main goal, which is that it's worth investing in cybersecurity. I wanted to assure the Members of the Left here that if you look at this bill, you will see that this is a law where there is 100% Cybersecurity and 0% politics. There is no policy, there is no money for people in political positions, there are resources for experts, for officers, for people who do this, and these funds will mostly go to people who are already there today and which we want to keep in this service for Poland. I hope that when we report on how this law works, you will see that it is. Similarly, for this credit of trust I thank the Polish Coalition Club. Mr Winnicki asked about the system as it is: we have civil cybersecurity, the government sector, the military sector. That is exactly what the Civic Platform's law on the national cyber security system is about - the Member voted for, respect, thank you. She's talking about how things work out. This bill that we are talking about today is also a law that is to build this system. Because this is a law that says yes: no matter what service you work in, no matter what organization you work in, if you perform specific tasks for Polish cybersecurity, you have the same financial conditions. It is precisely so that cybersecurity is built not by moving workers from one institution to another, but by building them systemically and in order to be able to be able to the conditions that we propose, to attract people from outside, to attract young people, to attract those who will constitute the future of cybersecurity in Poland. On behalf of the Circle, Poland 2050 asked about these attacks, which all of Poland is talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, today, once again, what the Polish services have said is confirmed by the whole of Europe, because it is worth saying that all 27 European countries have signed up for this. Today, Mandiant's expert report confirms: Russia and Belarus are the two countries to which these traces lead. Today's report is about Belarus. The European position speaks of Russia. On the other hand, from the very beginning - and this is also what you can find in the position which was signed by the Polish services - this is the direction of the attack in this case that materialized. Of course, it is easy to judge today, but read about how long the list of world leaders, politicians who have been victims of such attacks is long. I'm going to answer the questions. Mr Szopiński asked me about the situation at CERT Poland. You are welcome to read the CERT message. The new head of this cell phone is the person who's been working on this cell for six years, he's been a deputy manager for two years. There's a continuation, we've had conversations with the team, all the information has been transferred to the team. In my view - this is what I have signals from the NASK management - these people have declared that at least most of them will want to continue their mission and work at CERT. Mr Adamczyk asked if this amount was sufficient. Of course, today we are referring to the situation in this market. It is worth pointing out that we are referring to a growing indicator in recent years, which is the basic amount for the budgetary sphere. I hope that, with the increase of other salaries here too, wages will go up as they go on the market. It is worth pointing out, however, that if we compare this with market reports, with how much those with such functions should earn, in our assessment, the strategic goal that we have chosen, i.e. that we are able to pay the market median, is achieved. Of course, the assumption that we will be able to top any offer from the private market is irrational, that is not what we are aiming for. But the median market according to expert reports in the field of human resources management is as far as possible to achieve in these forks. Mr Suchoń asks why such a form. Well, here it was all about what I was just talking about, that is, ensuring a level playing field for all actors. As you certainly know, different entities have different systems of remuneration, different pension privileges, different rules for the calculation of contributions and additional benefits. The idea was to make it equal for each person, regardless of the formation in which organization he worked. There is quite a wide range of entities, these are the services, this is the military, this is the police, these are ministries that also carry out tasks under the KSC law related to cybersecurity. So it was just about everybody having the same conditions. If you look at this law, you can see that there are general rules and then changes in the pragmatisms of specific services, about how it fits into their system. He also asked if it was safe for everything to go to the Minister responsible for IT. Here's the idea that he's evaluating all these tasks as well as the Cyber Security College. In fact, without a college opinion, one cannot take a step further. And the Cyber Security College is sitting in a classified session. Of course, we want to keep the safety of all those who will be covered by this process. It is also worth remembering that there is an amount allocated to institutions. We will not be looking at the conclusions of specific people. So that the security of those who work for Poland in cybersecurity tasks will be preserved. Mr Łącki asked how we fit into this European strategy. Dear Member, it has been so for many years that in digital matters Poland is one of the leaders in Europe, and with our voice our partners are important. We have great experts, and some of you have talked about it. I am very happy, I am proud to represent this position on behalf of Poland. We want and are actively involved in bilateral cooperation as well as in wider, multi-country groups. Of course, we will also contribute to this strategy to strengthen resilience in cybersecurity. Mr Gontarz asked about the pay, how it is to the market. I think I've already answered that question. Mr Kwiatkowski spoke about 300 million a year. Mr President, this is my dream, but for now, there's only half of it. Based on the calculation that you're talking about, given the pay-rate issues, it's about 10,000. zł gross one-time allowance. Of course, you have to bear in mind that this is the average amount, some will get less, some more, but this allows you to achieve, as I said, more or less this market median. [[The left has tabled amendments.]] Yes, I did, thank you. Mr Cichoń has proposed that I work at the Ministry of Finance to arrange increases for the tax administration, which is, as the Member has rightly pointed out, one of the foundations of a functioning state. The Member was Deputy Minister of Finance. I've checked if there's been an increase in the officer's basic salary at the time. You'll never guess. Zero. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room:...how much longer...]] That's the question asked, and I refer to the questions one at a time. Four more minutes 14 seconds. Mr Gonciusz asked about other countries. As I pointed out, a dozen years ago Estonia was the victim of a cyberattack on the part of Russia, a system responsible for holding elections was hacked. Estonia then decided that digitalisation and security in cyberspace would be one of the cornerstones of the country's development. And today, ladies and gentlemen, so that in Estonia both wages and public sector prestige are often much higher than in the case of private sector work, because of the fact that this has been the case, an attractive remuneration has been proposed, interesting projects, prestige associated with the service of the State. And this shows that of course, money alone is not enough, but without this money it will be very difficult for us to build teams that will be prepared for the challenges that are ahead of us. Mr Szramka asked about training. All parliamentarians have the opportunity to benefit from such training. They are implemented in a formula: one-on-one. Representatives of all parliamentary clubs took part in such trial trainings. And here I can say that everyone who took part in these trainings said that they were useful, interesting, even those who have been standing on this speaker for many years and about the Law and Justice of good words have not said. So that these opportunities are, and I encourage all of you to take advantage of them. We will also distribute the keys to two-component authentication so that each of you can use them in your daily work, both with regard to the post office and with regard to any social networks or other sites you can use. I've got two more minutes. Mr Gawkowski asked about the law on the national cybersecurity system. Who do we consult with? We consult very widely. Several hundred pages were received with positions of very different institutions of the broadly understood telecommunications market, electronics, chambers, employers' organisations. There have been several meetings with market representatives, with operators. Of course, they always take place in the presence of everyone, so that everyone can comment on it. We believe that good regulation in this area must be based on dialogue. Mr Vendors also asked about the issues of high risk vendors, which resulted in such legislation. They come from the European Toolbox 5G. He pointed out the cost of exchanging equipment. It is worth pointing out that about every 7 years, this is the technological cycle in this industry, this equipment is exchanged anyway. So, of course, it depends on how you look at it. If someone takes a strategic approach to this, it can be risked to say that no additional costs will be incurred. Of course, this is always the individual decision and strategy of each particular company. I would like to remind you that the content of these provisions concerning high risk venters has not really changed in fact in relation to the previous version of the law which was submitted for consultation, unless I am mistaken, in April or May. So much for that. I cordially encourage all of you to support this bill. This is a good, important bill and it pursues goals that we should all care about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u585	Thank you very much, Minister. The committee rapporteur, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, also asked for the floor. I ask you, Mr President, for a brief, brief statement, because we are really behind schedule.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u586	Good. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for the entire debate during both committee work and here in the High House. None of the Members questioned the purpose of this important law. This is undoubtedly the success of your ministry. I am convinced that this bill will be adopted by the entire Sejm tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u587	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission on the urgent government draft law amending the Law on the Protection of the State Border and some other laws (prints Nos 1754 and 1756). I kindly ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u588	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, a meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs took place at which the first reading of the project took place, after your Marshal had sent an urgent government bill on 15 November to amend the Law on the Protection of the State Border and some other laws, print No 1754. Today's committee meeting lasted almost five hours. In the second part, eight articles were very substantively discussed, and this work was already going quite quickly, while the first basic part of the committee meeting was a discussion, general discussions on issues concerning the idea of this law, whether or not this law should be examined at all, and there was a very long discussion, which had a lot of threads. During this discussion and later, part of the proposals were accepted in substance, while part was not accepted, there were more specifically seven proposals, and applicants asked to be included as minority proposals. In such a state, with these proposals, when submitting a report to the committee, I propose that the Sejm adopt a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u589	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Piotr Kalet. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u590	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You might ask yourself this question today: What is the most important task of a soldier, a police officer, a border guard or a firefighter? And the answer, ladies and gentlemen, is very simple, but perhaps a little surprising for some. Well, the most important task of these officers is to survive. Survive to protect the Polish border, protect the security of our citizens later as an efficient officer. Today, ladies and gentlemen - such digression, imagination - we sit in comfortable parliamentary seats, in a warm room of the Polish Parliament, the Polish Sejm, and at the Polish-Belarusian border there are people who defend our homeland and our security at this moment. It is not possible today not to recall those words, those vile, shameful words, which fell from the lips of Władysław Frasyniuk or that actress whose names even disgust me. [[Voice from the room: Stop it.]] These are, ladies and gentlemen, things that were disgraceful. But it's time to change. Today I thought that before the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Administration and Home Affairs there would be some sobering, of course, sobering on your part. The Sejm is such an interesting place, because in addition to the plenary room, apart from the meeting place of the committee, there are also clowns. And from there came information, voices that also came to us, members of the Parliamentary Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on behalf of Law and Justice, that is the chance that today you will change your mind that today you will change your approach to border crossings, to those who protect our security. And another question, maybe rhetorical: What happened? Did Donald Tusk's mother-in-law call or did Tusk call himself? [[The voice from the room texted.]] And he told you, no, that's not an option. You just have to insult the Polish bordermen again. [[Voice from the gym: Go to sleep, really.]] [[Voice from the hall: Don't talk nonsense.]] And today, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that under the cover of the night... So often do you use this statement against us, against the Law and Justice, but today it is you, under the cover of the night, who do not have the courage to show just the true face, how you treat those people who guard our security at the border. [[Voice from the room: What are you saying?]] [[Voice from the room: The truth.]] Hello and praise you, esteemed Polish uniforms. It's great what you're doing, that you're protecting us all. [[Voice from the room: About the bill you would say something.]] You're protecting all these people... [[To the point. To the subject.]] ...who even disgrace you and insult you so badly, you don't make some sort of selection for it. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] You're protecting us all. And, ladies and gentlemen, today at the committee meeting, we wanted to give Polish bordermen mechanisms that would make them feel safe... [[Voice from the room: Perhaps you would like to give a warm meal, sir. Food.]] ...that they could feel that Polish parliamentarians, those who are the law, are kind of standing side by side with them. How did you behave? What were your applications? What were your amendments? [[To the subject.]] And above all, what was the substantive statement... Tfu, material. What was your statement during this meeting? [[What's this? What's with the spitting?]] This is an outrage. But, ladies and gentlemen, we still hope that you will be sobered up that you will begin to think correctly. It's the right thing to do. [[Voice from the hall: Like Poles.]] You have to think like Poles - to understand how horrible a threat we are in. For God's sake, finally understand that you must fight for the Polish state's right. For this you are and the nation has chosen you. So that you can protect him, you can provide him with external security, but also internal security. Now, ladies and gentlemen, patriotic time, truth time. Don't sign up for this... [[Voice from the O.R.: Step out of the podium.]] ...what unfortunately the history of our homeland has shown us many times - that there were also traitors. Traitors in this House. [[Voice from the room: This is not TVPiS.]] Don't get into this scenario. You can't do that. [[Voice from the room: Disgusting.]] The Law and Justice Club fully supports this law. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u591	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Tomasz Szymański.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u592	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We are about to face a situation that requires responsibility from all of us. There should be no confrontation today, but Mr Kaleta's language is clear. Ladies and gentlemen! But let us begin this debate with thanks, such true from the heart for all uniformed services, which in the name of state reasons, security. [[Applause]] Polish citizens and the integrity of borders put health and life at risk, they are at the station. Despite these beautiful announcements that we are perfectly prepared, logistics is fully operational, we know that they have basic problems with equipment... [[Voice from the room: Honestly.]] ...with warm tea, sleeping under normal conditions, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no warm meal.]] This is a fundamental problem that we should discuss today. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind the High House how the Law and Justice have convinced us all here as to how all matters at the border should be extinguished, that the problem should disappear when these two emergency states are consummated. Everything was supposed to be okay, Poland was supposed to be safe and the problem was going to go away. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, once again, you have failed your exam. It is because of you that we must debate at night (Motion in the Chamber), yes, Mr... [[Because of you, because of your friend running around with his bags.]] ...and show the Poles and Poles that you failed once again the exam with responsibility for the state, for Poles and Poles. That's the truth. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the gym: You passed.]] The fundamental lack, the fundamental charge against you, is total ignorance and lack of diplomatic action, which should be a priority for all of us. It is without you that European leaders are talking, who are trying to resolve this conflict. [[Voice from the hall: Yes, with Putin and Lukashenka.]] You're not here for this conversation, because nobody matters to you because there's no one to talk to. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Lukashenka and I don't talk.]] Not so much do you deprive, ladies and gentlemen, of access to reliable, unmanipulated public information in Poland, as you allow the Lukashenka regime to be dictated, [[Applause]] which goes into the world on its terms, because you have misunderstood that the Polish journalist will do harm to the Polish people. [[Voice from the room: 'Cause it does.]] [[The voice from the hall: 'Cause it does, right?]] [[Voice from the room: Censor.]] That's your sick thinking. In fact, this is how you treat Poles, looking everywhere for enemies, looking everywhere for problems. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the room: Listen.]] [[Voice from the room: There's nothing to listen to.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We should actually focus on the provisions of this law, and the key to printing 1754, is that once again for the fifteenth of the night... [[Voice from the room: Leave.]] ...what you've gotten us used to... [[We're not on you.]] ...you are presenting a complete piece of legal crap that is not bound by the Constitution, Madam Member. [[Voice from the hall: We work in the Seym.]] Today, during the long-term deliberations of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, legislators, fearing the Minister's reaction, have said in a complex way that it is an unconstitutional project and contains a number of constitutional errors and shortcomings. How can you face a project that's trying to limit... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No: he, Minister, is just saying: Mr. President, please address me. I have such a huge request for you. After all, it was the legislators who simply said that there are concerns about the illegalness of this project that it is unconstitutional. And that's the reality, Minister. How Can You Try? restrict freedom of operation of Poles and Poles by means of a regulation? This is the lowest order of legislation. The Constitution clearly states in the article. 52 that only laws can introduce such delegations, but only when a state of emergency is declared. Ladies and gentlemen! Ask yourself why Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, Deputy Prime Minister for Security, pointed to the question raised by the editor of the radio about three main problems: inflation, COVID and closer to the internal Polish interest groups. Why didn't he mention a critical situation on the Polish border? That's an amazing thing. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kaminski, in one of the speeches in the Parliament hall, said that we are not asking for external assistance, because it will be perceived as weakness. Ladies and gentlemen, where do you live? Why are you self-insulating? Fortunately for you, you were able to listen to the opposition's voice and draw conclusions. Long, slow, but you come to your senses. We have said from the very beginning: to let journalists into the border, to talk to the EU institutions, to involve Frontex. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Let the migrants in, you said.]] You laughed that it was just a few officers. But this is not about a few officers, but it is about the fact that this is a serious EU institution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Besides, you're ignoring other subjects... Thank you, sir. ...which may be your partner. You don't want this crisis to go away... Finish your work, sir. ...the only thing you want is for this crisis to continue, and for you to benefit from it politically. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the room: No!]] [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u593	Thank you. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u594	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Before I begin my speech, I would like you to convey on behalf of my club and to all my officers who suffered today as a result of events on the Belarusian border, a wish for a swift recovery. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, after a turbulent 4.5-hour discussion on the committee, this proposal was adopted. A project for which you did not agree to any amendments. A state of emergency was adopted on 2 September. First for 30 days, then for another 60 days. But I'm asking you why you didn't use it. then 150 days that could be used constitutionally. You've only limited this country to 90 days. What was the reason? Well, the reason was that you had to deal with these migrants during a state of emergency so that no one could be at the border. You couldn't handle it. When we asked what was next, the answer was silence. Today we have received a project which, firstly, has not been consulted, contains no justification for the issue of legal opinions and, at the same time, a project which violates the rights of freedom. Unfortunately, this is another example, Minister, of the rule of the manual state. As a Left, we condemn the crisis caused by the Lukashenka regime on the east border today. The border, which is at the same time the border of the European Union. Aggression is aimed at political destabilisation of our country and Europe as a whole. It can only be stopped by the activities of the international community, but unfortunately you do not fully benefit from it. The Left appealed to the President to convene the National Security Council. We believe that we should speak the same language about refugees and this situation. Unfortunately, it's not there. I'd like to ask where the President is. [[Voice from the gym: At the game.]] He wasn't at the first reading of the bill when we adopted the state of emergency, he wasn't at the debate on the second state of emergency. [[Voice from the hall: He was at the stadium.]] You can't just go to the border and photograph yourself. This isn't the president's policy. The President should act actively to resolve the situation that has arisen and, at the same time, act actively on the international stage. And today, the president is the only one we see at the game. [[Voice from the room: Actively fancied.]] The border must be well guarded, but let us remember humanitarianism, humanitarian aid. Those people who cross the border need help. No one else on this border should die. [[Applause]] Let's do everything we can to make sure that doesn't happen. According to the draft submitted, Minister, you are becoming God and the Tsar at the border. It's up to you to decide where you can't go. You're the one who's gonna decide when he won't be allowed in. You can move like pawns on a chessboard today town of A, tomorrow town of B, then town of C. You will not need a president, a state of emergency, or martial law, because in accordance with this regulation, you will be able to introduce restrictions on residence for more people anywhere. Today, we're looking at the border from uniformed officers, police officers, border guards. We see what the government wants us to see. But on the Belarusian side we have CNN, BBC, East television stations and we see it through the eyes of Lukashenka. I think the government has reflected. So? He's decided he's gonna let the press in. But, Minister, you've written it down: in justified cases, you can let it in. What does that mean? That you're gonna want to put the TV you want in the place you want TV to show you what you want. If this decision is to be made, say, by the chief of police, and there are dozens of them, then the journalist will have to run from one place to another to get such permission. And you don't want to let organizations in there that are humanely helping. to those who, unfortunately, will be there. I would like to say that my club will be against this bill, which is a prosthetic state of emergency. [[Applause]] [[Oh, dear.]] He misses the constitution, actually he simply gives the Minister competence to decide where and what can be introduced. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] We demand, above all, the internationalisation of the situation which is there, the participation of Frontex, the participation of the European Union, full assistance. There's no way, Minister, to settle this matter with bans. Migration cannot be solved simply by shutting down access. We need the support of the European Union and NATO to solve this problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And last but not least, I'd like to say one sentence. The security of Poland's borders is extremely important, Minister, but let us remember that there are people at the border. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u595	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Biernacki, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u596	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives towards the report of the committee on the urgent draft law amending the Law on the Protection of the State Border and some other laws. It's a traditional start, isn't it? Just the urgent one. Yesterday, at about an hour. 22 of this project was not on the sejm page. You could have been looking. There was a game, but I had to work, prepare for today's debate, but on another topic, and I wanted to find this project to know what was included in it. This project wasn't there at all, it only showed up late at night. Today we're sitting here, we're together, it's gonna be hours soon. 24 and we are debating the project, this important urgent act, the extraordinary law, which some lawyers, prominent lawyers, consider to be an unconstitutional law. We would like to verify whether she is constitutional or not, because it is very important whether the constitution has been violated. But we don't have the opportunity to make an expert opinion, because we have to give it to you today. Interestingly, as we remember, one month of the state of emergency was first introduced since September, then two months of the state of emergency. As we remember, there were 28 people in Usnarz, and now there are 3,000 in Kuźnica. persons. This confrontation is quite shocking to me, ladies and gentlemen, because the urgency of this project shows that the government - I do not say the MMA, but the government - has no idea how to fight this crisis. This is really a problem, and it's a serious problem if we go for such radical methods. We have time, we should have developed some versions of how to proceed. We are building a great wall as a state - we will build - you are forgetting that if there is dictatorship on the other side, state terrorism, if there is an institution, because I do not want to say that a state, an institution that is de facto practicing organised crime in the smuggling of people, because these migrants are also victims, are being duped, this border will never be tight, even at the best wall, because this country will be involved in this operation. You must realize, my dear High Izbo, that about 10,000. people passed through Lithuania, Poland to Germany. What are they doing? They're showing videos. They're sending videos that they're in Germany. And which way did they go? Through Poland. There is no better PR, negative for us, and for them positive that this route, this transport route, the metastatic could still exist. It is, it exists. It scares me, and I stress that the government doesn't have a strategy, doesn't know what to do next. This is a crisis, and I repeat this as a mantra, and it is already, fortunately, Prime Minister Morawiecki says political and the political crisis must be resolved through political and diplomatic action, not through spitting or ridiculing Frontex. And it is not embarrassing that you do not know this, but it is embarrassing when ministers say so, because Frontex is used by Italians, French, Greeks. [[Voice from the room: And so do we.]] And they're effective, they're very effective. Poles work in Frontex. So don't laugh at Frontex, just use it, use Frontex. [[Voice from the room: And that's what we do.]] And further - it is good that we are now benefiting from Europol's assistance. Lucky for you. It happens very slowly, it happens in a limited way, but it is. But it is. And luckily, somehow, there's a change. But let's remember that on the other side we have a visitor, a very dangerous person. Mr. Lukashenka. There's no telling what he's gonna do. With all this going on, without a vision of politics, things could get even worse. I hope it doesn't, and I don't want to scare you, but it's okay. There may be a serious threat because Lukashenka will play to the end and we will do nothing. We're not looking for support, we're not building a political environment or a media environment. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland defines two fundamentals for democracy of freedom. These are freedom of movement in Poland, art. 52, and freedom of the press. These freedoms are not ruthless. They can be limited by law and only in specific situations, e.g. when public policy or state security is at stake. But this limitation must be necessary to preserve the security of Poland or public order. Is the presence of media, Polish media on the Polish border really threatening Poland, or can it only help Poland (Dawn) in this hybrid war? [[The voice from the hall: Well, if there's any candy, what, bad?]] It can help. That is why we want the media to participate in what is happening at the Polish border, and we are making appropriate amendments. Please, Marshal. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, sir. You're gonna pay for everything. Remember that, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u597	Mr... Mr Robert Winnicki, the name of the Confederate circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u598	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A month ago, I told you from this place that, seeing the hysteria that the left side of the room had in the High House, Lukashenka certainly charters new planes and prepares new steps. And that's exactly what he did. What I said a month ago came true about the letter... [[Voice from the room: A word.]] ...also because of your attitude. This is why these matters are happening on our border - because you behave like the fifth column in the Polish state, the Left and the Civic Coalition. Today at the border of a dozen officers were injured... [[That's disgusting. Come on. Shame on you.]] ...one of them hard, in the head. Border Guard officers, police officers, soldiers are under fire - stones, bang grenades, in which these people were equipped with Belarusian services, branches. What does the Civic Coalition say? Janina Ochojska, MEP, is attacking the Border Guard for using water cannons. It's today. Your advice, Councillors of the City Council of Poznań from the Civic Platform reject the resolution of solidarity with the Border Guard. [[This is a disgrace.]] [[Voice from the hall: Disgrace.]] Don't shed crocodile tears here... [[Voice from the room: Tears.]] ...don't shed crocodile tears, don't praise the Border Guard, the army, the police, because your actions are completely opposite. The only thing that's changed is border pictures. Only because you changed your attitude - because you know that Poles will not tolerate the hysteria you committed a month ago. It's just changed. And, ladies and gentlemen, the PiS is known for its legislative sloppyness. That's what we know. That's about the bill we're investigating. But when I hear today that you are talking about the fact that there will be some rights of Poles and Poles limited by this law, I wonder where you were at the Act on the Epidemiology, where you have been for the last year and a half, when fundamental civil liberties have been restricted in an unconstitutional way, which was also acknowledged by the courts. Well, don't play games... [[Voice from the room: According to you...]] Not in my opinion. According to the court's decision, sir. ...tonight the Orleans virgins have recovered - that you here suddenly defend rights and freedoms - because that's just not who you are. You are unbelievable people, you are people who are hysterical at a critical moment for the Polish state... [[Look at you.]] ...you are people who in every situation prey politically like hyenas on the fact that a Polish soldier, a Polish Border Guard officer, a Polish policeman defends the border. And don't tell me... don't wipe your mouth with the uniform you spit on just a few weeks ago. [[But, Jesus Christ...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u599	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u600	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First we have to realize one thing. This crisis must end as soon as possible. And that's possible. This is due to the fact that Belarus has huge economic interests in the European Union. If the Polish government finally gets along, agree on serious, very serious sanctions against Lukashenka, against his regime, then we will have an instrument that will force him to end this crisis. It is important and necessary not only for this border, the border pressed by Lukashenka, not to destabilize Poland and the European Union, but also for Polish officers, Polish soldiers on this border to be safe. This is very important to us. And we thank them very much from this place on behalf of the Circle of Poland 2050 for their wonderful service. [[Voice from the room: Therefore...against the bill.]] And that is also your task today to build such international pressures. Well, we believe that the Polish uniform, the Polish soldier, is able to provide us with safety - all Poles. [[Voice from the room: That's why we need to help.]] And that is why we believe that the situation in which you, to such an enormous extent, want to ban Poles from freedom of travel, is actually a lack of faith in this... [[That's bullshit.]] ...that Polish uniform, Polish soldier, Polish officer can provide security for Poles. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: They must be at peace.]] On the other hand, we agree on one thing: in exceptional cases, very limited and well-defined, well-founded cases, it is necessary to limit access to the border, especially in the context of an escalating conflict. But you make completely blank recipes, without any restrictions. All you want is to prevent Polish journalists... [[Voice from the hall: Polish-speaking.]] ...to inform Poles about what is happening there, not to keep Polish soldiers and officers safe, but to keep you safe so that no one can control you. [[Voice from the hall: Am I at the border?]] And you also want volunteers who provide medical assistance to those who need it on the Polish side of the border, not to get there with this help. That's not what we're authorized to do. That is why we have prepared a number of amendments, 11 amendments that agree this draft with the Constitution. Our position on this project depends on the adoption of these amendments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the Circle of Poland 2050, your marshal, I make these amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u601	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u602	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After the last meeting, Poles may have had the impression that they were dealing with some breeze of agreement in the High House, that we are talking about important matters, about Poland's safety first of all in substance, substantively, we are pushing aside these emotions. We can see that, unfortunately, everything is back to normal. There's the bill again. We're gonna have to do this at the last minute. It is ridiculous that we proceed in such a way that there are doubts at all as to whether he is in line with the Constitution. We, when voting in favour of this law, should be convinced that it serves our country, serves officers and soldiers at the border so that they can perform their duties as best as possible. And we have doubts as to whether it is even constitutionally compatible. Unfortunately, this puts us in a difficult position as Members. We'd like to work together, we'd like to... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. President, as you spoke... Although your speech was, to be honest, none of it, it may have hit your constituents' tastes in particular, but if they wanted to learn something about this bill from your speech, they didn't know anything at all. But focus on the project, not the others... Because you used nice pauses here, you played with emotions, some rhetorical figures... [[Voice from the room: You can learn.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] What an outrage, look. But I'm just saying what the Member was talking about. Mr President, please focus on the substance rather than on other speeches. [[The voice from the room: But... she didn't interrupt.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: But that's what the committee rapporteur is for.]] I know, sir, but... Mr President, you should respect your constituents, other Poles who waited almost until twelve o'clock to hear from a representative of the Law and Justice something meaningful about this law. From your mouth in the five minutes you've taken, they haven't heard anything at all. Unfortunately, this is what it's like to work with you. At the committee meeting, take these amendments to heart, want the whole parliament to vote this bill, not that there is any division again, and so that you can play the narrative that the opposition is against our services. It's not. Sometimes, of course, there are misrepresentations, irresponsible speeches, while in the previous sitting, the opposition and the government have repeatedly pointed out from this speaker that the services are enjoying and respectful and endless support. So don't make this a situation, don't go into those narratives that the opposition wants bad for our services. [[Voice from the room: 'Cause he wants to.]] We really want to do well, maybe other ways, other than you, but... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But you're rude, really. Young guy, it seems like a new quality in parliament, and he's sitting and disturbing. Step out into the podium, say something smart. Come on in. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u603	You're not the one who's invited to the podium so far, Mr. President. And that's where we ended the performances of clubs and circles. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. Since 43 people joined the questions, we have a late hour, I set the time for the question to be asked for half a minute. [[Voice from the room: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] [[Voice from the room: scandal, if you don't want to do it.]] The first question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice. Let me remind you that five hours lasted a committee meeting. Madame, do not behave outrageously. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question. [[30 seconds on safety...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u604	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a question about journalists. The experience so far, especially from the first period of the attack on the border, indicates that some of the media operating in Poland unfortunately failed the exam. In a situation where our unity is so important, knowingly or unconsciously, they have become hostile propagandists to us narratives of Belarusian or Russian media. All media at this dramatic time should be reasonable, pro-stately, their loyalty must be on this side of the border. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] [[Voice from the room: Half a minute has passed.]] And question: Will the criterion of loyalty to the Polish state be one of those which will decide to agree on the reporting of events over the border by journalists? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u605	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. [[Your Marshal, there's a formal motion. You're not in charge of the Rules of Procedure. I made a formal request...]] Mr President, you are currently obstructing the proceedings. [[There's been a formal motion, I'm doing it all over the room, I'm officially reporting it. Your marshal doesn't allow it. He's breaking the rules.]] [[Applause]] You, too, at the moment, Mr President. [[You break the rules, you don't allow a formal application.]] Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question. [[You're breaking the rules.]] It is up to the Marshal of the Sejm to determine the time for the question. I remind you... [[The formal conclusion is, Marshal. It's not a request. Give the floor.]] [[A voice from the hall: But you are not a Marshal of the Seym.]] You're welcome, sir. [[You're breaking the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, not allowing a formal application.]] Good. Mr President, you are currently interfering with the Sejm's deliberations. This is the first time I've said this. You're welcome, sir. [[Please rule me out for a formal motion.]] Mr President, I draw your attention, you are disturbing the Parliament's deliberations. [[I'm filing a formal motion.]] You're welcome, sir. Let's turn on the time. [[Your marshal, please, the whole House can hear...]] You're interfering with the House's deliberations right now. [[... formal application, formal application.]] [[Applause]] Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. [[That I'm filing a formal motion?]] Not that you're interfering with the Sejm's deliberations right now. [[And your marshal breaks the rules.]] And you're interfering with the Sejm's deliberations. I don't have that conclusion in writing, so we have nothing to talk about. [[Your marshal violates the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, does not allow for a formal motion.]] Mr President, I would like to call you back to order. [[And we're here for you, Marshal. The entire House calls you to order.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Sure. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr President, the time has passed, but please, we are starting this time again. Half a minute. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're welcome, sir. [[Voice from the O.R.: You don't want to work.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u606	Mrs. Marshal! What are you trying to hide? A project came in last night that restricts the freedom of Polish citizens. Tonight you held a debate and gave 30 seconds to speak. This isn't a democracy. We are talking about the most serious moment in Polish history, when we have threatened borders, when tens of thousands of Polish soldiers, risking their lives, protecting the border, and we cannot seriously talk about it because there is no time for it. This problem must be internationalised, Frontex should be invited and, above all, given the opportunity to participate (the Bell) in journalists and humanitarian organisations. That's the minimum. But you can't talk about it under these conditions. Where's the president? I said, where's the president? [[Voice from the gym: At the game.]] Thank you, sir. He was at the game last night, and today he's gone. And you're only six people. This is ridiculous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u607	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u608	One of the most important debates in this Seym takes place at hours. 24. Members have 30 seconds to ask the question. Where's the president? Why does your marshal give us 30 seconds? Why do Polish soldiers not eat on the Polish border? This was mentioned by the President of the Brightest Republic of Poland, Mr Duda, on 11 November. And today, teachers and principals from Bialystok school had to help soldiers because they hadn't eaten anything warm in three days. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One of the TV stations was talking about it today. [[Voice from the room: Which one?]] [[Voice from the room: Which station?]] Thank you very much, sir. But we can't talk about it here because we have 30 seconds. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Public television.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u609	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. There's no envoy? Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u610	When we adopted here the first wave of COVID laws, when this COVID fever was only entering a sharp phase, I said here that in a well-managed country, when a crisis comes, it reaches for the correct binder and implements procedures, and that is what we are creating them. And I prophesied at that time that if war came, we'd be feverish enough to pass some law on the supply of the front, to change the soldier's profession law, to extend approvals for tanks. And that's exactly what's happening right now. Fortunately, this is a war as far as we can, but I would not want our organizational culture to be tested in a real conflict.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u611	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u612	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the most important task of our services is to ensure the security and integrity of borders. We support them, I think, everyone in this important task, hoping that they will do them well and safely return home. But we also think of those who help at the border, because security does not exclude humanity. Minister! First: Why do our officers not have the right conditions? Everybody's talking about it. Secondly: Why does the government reject parliamentary control (the Bell) over restrictions when they are very strongly interfering with freedom and civil rights? Is the government afraid he won't get most of it even at his club? After all, the government has this majority, so there should be no problem with parliamentary control. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u613	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u614	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! You have often talked about the fact that journalists have disturbed our officers, but it must also be acknowledged that their absence at the border in turn has caused us to lose the information war with the Lukashenka regime. Therefore, my question, Minister: How do you want to solve this now, so that journalism is reliable, so that the message from our side of the border also reaches, goes into the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u615	Thank you, sir. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u616	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all Polish Police officers, Border Guard officers, Polish Army soldiers for stopping today's attack on the Polish border. Thanks to you, the Polish border is tight, Poland is safe, Poles are safe. [[Voice from the room: These are questions, not statements.]] Today 12 police officers were wounded on the Polish border, including the Border Guard and one Polish Army soldier was wounded. In such a situation, how can you apply for rejection of this (Bingle) important and necessary law at first reading? Thank you. Just start thinking in Polish. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] [[Voice from the room: What does she bring?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u617	Thank you. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u618	Mr Kaczynski, the President of the Committee on Security, is not here. Not even 30 seconds to say that you are once again breaking the constitution and creating an unconstitutional law at this point. This will lead to the fact that people who want to help at the border, and for this I thank them very much that they want to help, residents, will be detained unjustly, and independent courts will acquit them, because you cannot ban people from moving in a state other than the emergency (the bell). You're breaking the constitution. We won't forget this. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, my...]] [[The voice from the hall: That you will not forget...]] [[Voice from the room: Mask!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u619	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, club Lewis. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u620	While living in an emergency zone, we can't count on outside assistance, we don't have medical or media support. We were left entirely alone with a situation beyond our imaginations. Still, we want to bring help to those in need. We don't want to collect corpses from our forests. These are the words of the residents of the state zone, Poles and Poles from Podlasie. It's a testimony of human decency, but it's also an abandonment that the government has prepared for its own citizens, turning their house into a locked-in area full of military patrols. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, the same government wants to make it a normal state. Why? Why do you turn against Poles who today save the honour of the Republic of Poland with their humanitarian action? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u621	Thank you. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u622	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will ask on behalf of Podlaskie entrepreneurs: When will you pay them for the losses incurred by introducing a state of emergency? You promised this on September 2nd, when you introduced this state, and today these entrepreneurs don't have that money in their accounts yet. They're falling, and you're not interested. There was a lockdown, and today was a state of emergency. When will you pay? Because words are beautiful, actions are not. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u623	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u624	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question. You've known since June, as Minister Kaminski said from this place, about what's going on. In August I appealed in Bialystok to build this dam as soon as possible, to start building the wall immediately. It's November, it's about to end, no first shovel you've put under the wall. The question is how the proposed legislation will affect the construction of a wall that should have been in advanced construction for months.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u625	Thank you very much. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u626	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Me with a very short question to the Minister, less than 30 seconds. In relation to what the Krajewski colleague said: How much did you pay compensation to people living and operating in a state of emergency by 15 November? I'd like to hear the answer to that question in this courtroom. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u627	Thank you, Member. Mr Robert Gontarz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u628	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! From this point on, I would like to thank the Border Guard very warmly for defending the security of our homeland. We must all be fully aware of this. We are grateful for this, but gratitude alone is not enough. Hence this law, so that we can help the Polish Border Guard, the Polish Army and the Polish Police in fulfilling their duties in peace. I thought it was three times a charm. Well, you didn't make it. You've been against national security three times. I thought you were learning slow, but you are learning. And you don't learn (the bell), you still make the same mistakes. You're against national security, and that's very sad. [[Yeah, yeah, yeah, sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u629	Thank you. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u630	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! You want to de facto prolong the state of emergency against the constitution to hide the truth about how you're pushing entire families into swamps and abroad. It's the height of impudence. We all care about the right to the left to end this humanitarian crisis as soon as possible, don't we, Minister? [[Is that why you ran around the border with your bag?]] [[They need warm meals.]] And if so, when will you call Frontex and the other EU institutions? When will you start working towards sanctions against the Lukashenka regime? If you can't help yourself, let the doctors and the relief organizations work. [[Voice from the O.R.: When will you stop doing that?]] Let's create a humanitarian corridor. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: To your apartment.]] Let's do everything we can to ensure that no one else dies there. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: To Lukashenka with this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u631	Thank you. Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u632	Mrs. Marshal! The freedom index published by Reporters without Borders puts Poland on 64th place in the world. According to this draft law, whether a journalist can be admitted to the border area will be decided by the commandant of the Border Guard facility. The decision whether the TV crew will enter the border area is typically discretionary and there is no appeal procedure for it, and I will not mention the reasons for the decision. The record about the commandant of the Border Guard facility, which was granted the powers of the censor, places Poland even lower. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u633	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u634	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the committee meeting today, you mocked journalists, suggesting that they were too irresponsible, unworthy of being in the border area. Nothing, Minister, can beat Minister Kaminski and his embarrassing conference with fragments of pornographic film. Polish journalists have great experience. They have been through many times in much more difficult conditions and can work freely at the border, providing us with independent and objective information. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are you afraid you're not gonna let reporters into the border? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[We're reasonable.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u635	Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u636	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, let's learn to appreciate what we have so that we don't learn to appreciate what we have. Let it be a message that I think is, I think, obvious. And another point, the Member of the Polish Affairs said things here, to put it mildly, unfit for repetition. Mr President, it is all the more shameful that you are an ex-soldier. If a soldier talks like that, it's outrageous. [[Voice from the room: Ask question.]] Ladies and gentlemen, question: Are you able to defend the Polish border (the bell) by going to that border and showing refugees the constitution? Think about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u637	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u638	The restrictions that we are talking about today are to apply in the border area, at least 15 km wide, the belt of one or two municipalities, de facto several thousand square kilometres. And that's where the tables are going to be, "The area covered by the prohibition of residence" -- the entry prohibited. That's the status of this area. As long as we tolerate the state... [[Voice from the room: As long as it takes.]] ...in which the most important people for society, journalists (the bell), and humanitarian organisations in the humanitarian crisis cannot enter freely? It is the law of society, it is the right of every citizen - to be informed. And he trusts you at least 40%. society. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: More respect for the Border Guard.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u639	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left. [[I have great respect for the Border Guard.]] [[Voice from the room: Well, you can see that.]] Hello, sir, please... Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u640	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Voice from the room: As long as we're being mugged...]] [[They're scared.]] [[Voice from the room: Who's afraid?]] I'll add your time, my fellow Member. Wait, let them scream out there, maybe it'll be easier. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The failure to help a man who is in danger of hunger and cold, the man who dies, has all the marks of a forbidden act. The situation that we face at the border is a threat situation, but it is not us who are at risk, it is the people who are at risk, the foreigners who are there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Our duty, both legal and humanitarian, Christian... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: There's a defense.]] ...yes, Christian, ladies and gentlemen, it is to help them and to make sure that no one else dies there. [[Voice from the hall: Left for Christianity.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u641	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u642	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This bill does not show how you want to help soldiers, territories or border guards. This bill shows that you want no one to look at your hands. How do you imagine the freedom to carry out a journalistic mission in prohibited areas? What's next with the crisis? How long will these special privileges remain? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: as long as it takes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u643	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u644	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Today, migrants stormed the Polish border, and opposition MEPs attack, storm solutions of the Polish government to protect the Polish border and support soldiers, support from the police, support from the Border Guard. We have rehearsal time. The opposition doesn't take the exam again. Besides, he hasn't given it up in the first place in this case. Do you really not see from the opposition that you are playing the security of Poland? Thank you here for the Border Guard, the uniform service. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And because you are grateful to them, you are against this law, which is supposed to support them and protect them, protect the Polish border, protect the security of Poles. I'm ashamed of you. [[Applause]] [[They don't need your work bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u645	Thank you. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. [[They don't need your regulations to defend the borders.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u646	Minister! You're losing the media war. I speak premeditatedly: you are losing because it can still be reversed, you can still win, but you must invite the largest European and world stations to our side of the border, take them from Belarus and bring them to us, [[Applause]] that they begin to show what we want them to see - what you say is on our side of the border - that is, law enforcement, defending people, but also helping refugees. Unless you don't want to do it, unless you want to, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the only one who's gonna tell us what's going on is the editor of Tacik from TVP. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u647	Thank you very much. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Lewis Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u648	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With respect for the services of the Border Guard, the army and the police, I would also like to draw attention to residents, especially children of families living in border areas on the Polish side covered by the state of emergency. Mr. Czarnek recently gave them a remote teaching. Does the Polish State provide for any aid scheme, e.g. support for psychologists or organizing rest, organized holiday program for those children who live in a border lane, who are exposed to very difficult situations (the Bell) related to growing conflict and action at the border? Is there also provision for support for the families of officers who today have such a dedication to defend our border? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u649	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u650	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The events of August and September this year showed that some Members and Senators, instead of protecting themselves by helping the Border Guard and the military, did everything they could to make this protection more difficult. Some of these people are in this room. These people are more concerned about migrants attacking the Polish border today than about soldiers and policemen defending Polish houses where Polish women and Polish children live. How does the government intend to ensure freedom for border services and the military in carrying out (The Bell) actions for the security of Poland and Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u651	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u652	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In all this you have forgotten about the local community, entrepreneurs, mainly small family companies from Podlasie Voivodeship and Lublin Voivodeship. We have tabled a number of amendments to this bill. If you really care about these people, you will support these amendments. Minister, a specific question: How many compensations have you paid so far? Isn't it true that local entrepreneurs haven't gotten to this day or the gold? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Not a dollar, bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u653	Thank you. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u654	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The state of emergency set up at the beginning of September did nothing to resolve the humanitarian crisis. The ban on humanitarian organisations and medical professionals is not, was not and will never be an adequate response to the aggression of the Lukashenka regime. It is for this to abandon values such as recognition of human dignity regardless of what country it comes from or what religion it is. And it's not a blow to the dictator... [[Voice from the hall: In a Polish soldier.]] ...but in people deceived by Minsk and treated like live shields. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u655	Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u656	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by thanking all the uniforms, the helping residents, and the charities. And to you, Minister, I have nothing to thank you for, because a state of emergency is a failure. But I have a question. Are you going to correct the line? Many operators, we talked about it, are located within 6 km, twice as large as the assumed 3-kilometer safety belt. Are you going to correct this line now? And when are you finally gonna pay the compensation? A lot of entrepreneurs don't have anything left to live for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u657	Thank you. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u658	Mrs. Marshal! Under the cover of the night, you are giving great power to one man today, a man who has been pardoned by your president in respect of the charge of exceeding his authority. [[Voice from the Chamber: President of Poland.]] Minister Kaminski will be free to restrict citizens' mobility. Do you remember these words: Democracy requires a dispersal of power - where one centre brings together a great deal of power, democracy is at stake? It's Kaczynski. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Kaczyński.]] If you've forgotten those words, it's proof that you've been corrupted by power. Don't you really have a gram of reflection? It is not the Polish citizens who are threatening you, it is the Eastern regimes. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus, he's good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u659	Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u660	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thanks, Anne, work there in this Parliament and make sure there is no riot. Fingers crossed. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a text from the mother of a soldier standing at the border. I've got a few more of these. Patriotism. What is patriotism? This is the love of the country and respect for the other man. And security and defense aren't just hand-to-hand combat. It's diplomatic action to defend your country and your nation, it's smart management. You didn't do anything about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I speak for mothers, wives, parents and children. They tremble and fear your decisions. Not a state of emergency, not a wall... Thank you very much. Member, that's enough. ...not barbed wire, but true love for the country and patriotism... [[The voice from the room: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Voice from the hall: They are afraid of the Lukashenka regime.]] Thank you. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, Lewiat Club. Thank you very much, Madam President. ...are able to solve this problem. I appeal for wisdom and caution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u661	Thank you. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, Lewiat Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u662	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're discussing, if you can call it that, the National Border Protection Act. I would like to ask the representatives of the government when the government will present a draft law on the protection of the Polish state, not just the border itself, Minister. This represents immigrants as the archenemy who are invading... [[Voice from the room: They're invading the force.]] ...on the territory of the Polish state, forgetting that the real enemy is the dictator of Belarus... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The voice from the hall: Did you see them throw stones?]] ...and he should be the real target. [[Voice from the hall: These were not stones with the inscription "love" on them.]] Meanwhile, Belarus' exports have doubled... Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition. ...Polish-Belarusian exchange increased by 40%. It's time to learn your lesson. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u663	Thank you, sir. Thank you. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u664	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The border crisis is a serious political crisis, an international crisis that you are passive to, and the result is a humanitarian crisis for which you are responsible. [[Voice from the hall: Not Lukashenka?]] [[Voice from the room: with Putin.]] That is why I ask the Minister and ask for a written reply and here, from the speaker: Is the situation in the border region and the increase in COVID disease in the region taking action to increase the efficiency of medical services, e.g. referral of additional doctors, paramedics, equipment or transfer of finance? Who provides medical assistance to foreigners in the border area and in the zone? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is the scale of these interventions? How many times have ambulances been sent in response to calls about foreigners? Have such calls been refused? How many situations were there, and why? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u665	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u666	Dear Marshal! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 8 makes a formal request to change the way in which discussions are conducted and to extend the speaking time to a minute. I shall make a formal request in writing and, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, ask him to vote on this point. [[Applause]] [[Voice in the hall: Tomorrow in the voting block.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: No, no, this motion is now being voted.]] Yeah, we'll be in the voting block... The mockery may be that in such an important discussion is 30 seconds per question. Let the O.R. answer if she wants 30 seconds of questions. Let's vote now, as the Rules say. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u667	Thank you, sir. We continue to consider item 15 of the agenda. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. [[Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski:... you can break the rules.]] [[Voice from the room: What's the conclusion?]] [[Voice from the room: Charek, Constitution.]] Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. [[Voice from the Chamber: We should vote on the motion, Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion is.]] We will vote in the voting block, Mr President. [[Voice from the hall: No, no, this one is voting now!]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr, don't yell.]] [[Voice from the room: Please consult.]] But don't yell. You're welcome, sir, because time will pass. [[Voice from the room: We break the rules.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are being violated.]] Mr. President, it's time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u668	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This should be the most important debate today at this session of the Sejm. See what vote we are voting about - it is midnight, and Members have 30 seconds at their disposal. [[Voice from the room: Border Guard is standing at the border.]] I wonder why the PiS doesn't want to cooperate with the opposition. You said you could handle this crisis, you needed 30 days, and you were wiped out. That's what you said. It's been 80 days and the situation is much worse. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Consider our proposals. Start working with the opposition because state security isn't just your business, it's a matter for the whole nation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u669	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Club Left. [[Voice from the room: Excuse me, what is the request of a colleague? Excuse me, what's with the friend's request?]] But are you asking a question right now? [[Voice from the room: No, I'm not asking a question.]] But will you make it difficult for your friend to ask questions? You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Voice from the room: The formal conclusion has fallen.]] [[You're breaking the rules.]] Member, do you ask a question?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u670	The introduction of a state of emergency did nothing, did not stop migration above all. You're lying about the boundaries being tight. The Polish borders have already exceeded several thousand people. Over 6,000. People... [[Voice from the room: There were 30 people there.]] ...people are already in Germany, almost 2,000. People are in border facilities. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And that is what Prime Minister Morawiecki said last week - 2,000. People. We don't know how many in the woods. There, in these forests, in Polish forests, there is the greatest drama, where people die. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's cold kids out there. They're hungry and thirsty. [[Voice from the hall: And Lukashenka listens and rejoices.]] If Jesus had been born in Poland today, he would have been born in a cold forest and probably died. Shame on you for what you're doing. These people. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: You say what Alexander Lukashenka says, I'm sure you're happy...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u671	Thank you, Member. Thank you. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u672	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is why, from Poland, there should be a message about the situation at the border, not from the regime of Belarus. This is a matter of our state of affairs. The issue of our Polish state of affairs is also that Poland joins, integrates countries that will cooperate with us in this crisis, the European Union, the institutions of the European Union, NATO. This is our Polish state right and these actions should be taken (The Bell) much earlier, and today only continued, because the crisis did not come out of nowhere. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Its foundations are political and come from the fact that effective action has not been launched before. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u673	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club. And I am replying to Mr Gawkowski: on the basis of the article. Article 181 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u674	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS endangers the health and life of frontierrs, tells them to use backpack throwers of incapacitating substances without training... [[The voice from the room: No, no, no.]] [[Voice from the hall: Because they throw stones at Polish soldiers.]] ...so the uniforms are gonna be practicing on themselves. So I understand they're going to overpower themselves with the equipment they're going to get. The law should support the services and people who travel to the border area to save lives. The solutions presented should be used by borderers to provide assistance, medical assistance (the bell) and psychological assistance. That's what this bill doesn't give. The PiS endangers the health and life of the bordermen. [[Voice from the hall: And it will soon be seen that immigrants give stones from a pure heart.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u675	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u676	Art. 233 of the Constitution states that a law defining the scope of restrictions on freedom and human rights during a state of emergency or war must not restrict humanitarian treatment. I thank all those who respect the Polish Constitution, even in such a difficult situation, at the border. It's inhumane and brutal not to allow relief organizations there... [[Voice from the room: For whom?]] ...but also counterproductive. All the more congratulations to people like the people of Białowieża, who follow the Constitutional and Christian principles [[♪ The bell ♪]] The principle of the overriding value of human life... Thank you. ...calling on Bialowieza Humanitarian Action. Bravo! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u677	Thank you, Member. Mr Maciej Gdula, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u678	Mrs. Marshal! I find it difficult not to comment on this limitation of speaking time. In my opinion, you are demoting the Sejm, reducing the time to 30 seconds. [[Applause]] And you're wasting your time saying it. It's hard to ask normal questions at a time like this, but I'm gonna try to do it, and I'm gonna send it to Minister Wąsik. You've already wasted half your time. Why are you and Minister Kaminski demoting the President? Why are you stripping him of rank? Why do you humiliate him by taking away his constitutional right to declare a state of emergency because it's de facto happening? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: There is no such advisor as...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u679	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u680	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have been losing this conflict for 3 months now, unfortunately, as Poland we are losing because we have a failed government and I am very sorry about it. [[Voice from the Chamber: You have so many apartments, Mr. President.]] But, Minister, I have a very specific question. Is Art. 52 Constitution allows freedom of movement to be limited by regulation, or does it refer to a law? [[Voice from the room: We're talking about...]] It's a natural non-constitutional solution. And I have a very specific second question. Who and in what mode will be able to appeal against the decision (the bell) of the Border Guard Commandant? Will this decision be made on an administrative basis? Who can we appeal to? Thank you. Because that is a key question when it comes to compliance with the rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u681	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u682	This bill that doesn't bring you anything, you just need it on government television to say that the opposition is against border protection... [[Voices from the hall: He is, he is.]] ...and that's not true. You know we're not gonna support the bullshit. You need this bill to cover your inability. And the point is that when the chancellor of Germany or the President of France discusses the resolution of the crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border, President Andrzej Duda is at the match (The bell) and the Prime Minister is at the presentation of the commemorative banknote dedicated to the crisis at the border. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: It was weak.]] [[Better than...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u683	Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u684	We are investigating an unconstitutional urgent government project in extra mode and express without the involvement of the government, without the President's presence, with almost empty pews of the PiS. We got 30 seconds to perform. This is how you treat the security of Poland. This is how you treat the safety of Poles and Poles. What about the legal order, Minister, brings this project in? What tangible effect did the state of emergency bring, apart from the fact that access to the border had been closed to journalists and humanitarian organisations? [[The voice from the hall: It was you who taught us these 30 seconds.]] And I raise a question about entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many of them have been compensated, aided for setting up a state of emergency? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u685	Thank you. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u686	Thank you. High Izbo! This debate is a great opportunity to thank those who guard our borders. They are undoubtedly patriots, but patriots are also those who insist on upholding the Constitution. Patriots are those who point out that the bill we're investigating violates the constitution at many points. [[Voice from the room: Which one?]] Art. 14 - freedom of the press, Art. 54 - ban on censorship. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what you want to do. And that's why let's ask for it... Question, sir. ...so as not to legalize a new state of emergency that has no basis in this constitution. And a question for the Minister. Do you remember the vows made by every minister, including your boss? Okay, thank you. He's supposed to guard the constitution. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u687	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u688	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I join the questions about those entrepreneurs who have not received compensation so far, and at the same time I ask very specifically. Various types of investments can be made in these areas, involving various EU funds and not only EU funds. How did you... [[Voice from the room: Charek...]] ...you will allow these entrepreneurs to implement them, these local governments can implement them... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Mask.]] ...but so that no one is subject to any kind of sanction at the moment when they simply can't physically do it? Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Mr Grabarczyk - mask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u689	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. As you can see, I didn't answer anyone's voice, I didn't turn off the microphone... [[Voice from the room: Yeah, just...]] ...because I'm not in the habit, ladies and gentlemen, despite the insulting words that have been said here. [[A voice from the room: Thank you very much, ma'am.]] I will ask Minister Maciej Wąsik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, to answer questions, although these questions were quite few in these statements. You're welcome, Minister. [[Room voice: 30 seconds.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u690	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! You complain about the freedom of debate, and remember when I was probably standing here two weeks ago, and Marshal Czarzasty let you speak after 15 minutes, and he didn't triple my time for answers. So don't talk like that, don't talk like that. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was.]] We spoke very seriously today at the committee meeting about a bill that has... [[Voice from the room: The soldier doesn't cry.) ((Applause]] Mr... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Great joke, sir, great joke. [[This isn't a joke. Don't make fun of the Polish soldiers, Minister. Shame!]] Don't be a hypocrite. [[Don't make fun of the Polish soldiers.]] Don't be a hypocrite. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the Parliament's deliberations. I address Mr Gawkowski once again. You know the consequences. I can do it again a few more times. [[...a Polish soldier.]] [[Voice from the room: You had to vote in favour of security.]] Mr President, how are you acting? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would love to learn about the Polish soldier too... [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] ...and I'll admit to Mr. Gawkowski. He's the one you have to insist on. [[Voice from the room: People, calm down.]] And let's get together. [[A voice from the courtroom: Then arrange them a cup of tea.]] Let's say that from everyone who said that there were fascists in uniform on our border, that they were bandits, we cut off - from Sterczewski, from Frasyniuk, from Ochojski's words, from the other words. [[Voice from the O.R.: We're shutting down.]] Cut off Jachira, please. [[Voice from the room: Call the Minister to order.]] [[Voice from the room: A warm meal.]] [[Voice from the room: Let him answer the questions.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Your Marshal violates the seriousness of the Sejm.]] But I don't see why. The Minister answers the questions. That there weren't many questions in your statements, it wasn't our fault. Excuse me, Minister, please continue, not discuss with the Members. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: I know, Mr Kropiwnicki, that your hypocrisy when it is revealed... [[The voice in the room: it hurts, it hurts.]] Exactly, it hurts because you're hypocritical, because today you say... [[Mr. Minister, please don't insult the House.]] Have a seat. Have a seat. And you could have insulted me, couldn't you? [[Voice from the hall: The Lord is the janitor.]] [[Voice from the room: To the locker room to work.]] Mr. President, what are you doing? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Who are you? How are you acting? Aren't you ashamed? [[Voice from the hall: The farmers discriminate, and now those who work in the locker room.]] Minister, specifically. I don't think there's any point in having such an exchange between... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: I, your marshal, am aware of the intentions of at least part of the opposition here. Why are you here? To say that you're in pain with our soldiers, police officers, border guards, and you're attacking them every day with your other hand. I say yes, there is only one word that comes to me to judge such a situation: hypocrisy. Cut yourselves off from Frasynuk, cut yourselves off from Lisa's words, cut yourselves off from the words... [[Voice from the room: These are not answers.]] You're gonna have to push it, tell me you're not gonna go along with this... [[Voice from the hall: But nobody talks about it here.]] ...to attack the military, the Border Guard. Tell that to your fellow Members. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: The Lord is in another place.]] Tell that to your political friends. Then we will believe that you are behind the Polish uniform. [[Speak like a minister.]] [[Voice from the room: Please respond. We've asked specific questions.]] [[Voice from the room: You have to control yourself. You're not fit for this job.]] Marshal, would you please ask the Members to remain calm? [[The voice from the room: But it is you who must calm down.]] Minister, we can ask for responsibility, too, but you can see exactly what the answer is. Proceed, Minister. [[Voice from the hall: You have to have a balanced man.]] Poles listen and this is important. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition... [[Voice from the room: You speak to the whole House.]] I'll say this: this bill introduces the following things. It creates the possibility of good service to Polish soldiers, police officers, border guards on our eastern border. It'll give you an opportunity when the state of emergency is over... [[Voice from the room: Now they don't.]] ...sureing them what wasn't at Usnar, so that people who name NGOs wouldn't attack our border from the west. [[Voice from the room: They didn't have it for 30 years.]] It's a very important element. We realize that the media has to report, but they have to report on those things that happen at the border, in an orderly manner... [[Voice from the hall: No, censorship is forbidden.]] ...so as not to disturb a Polish soldier, a border guard or a police officer. So we have to make sure there's order and security. They will enter national media across the border, but in an orderly manner, as the Border Guard will determine, the competent commander, so as not to harm anyone. [[Voice from the room: Censor.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There were various specific questions here about compensation, for example. We are aware that the introduction of new restrictions can lead to the lack of revenue of our entrepreneurs, who are in this belt, let us call it frontier. That is why we are introducing the possibility of paying them compensation. These compensations began today to be physically paid to their accounts by the first voivode, the Podlaskie voivode. Let me remind you that the bill we are talking about, the bill on compensation, entered into force on 4 October. She gave the voivode 14 days to process the application and 30 days to pay the money, which was 44 days that had just begun to pass. As Minister Chefernaker spoke to the Podlaskie Voivode today, this money for applications that have been submitted will be gradually paid, already today the first money has gone, and by the end of next week all the money will probably be paid to those entrepreneurs who have submitted these applications. We are aware that this law also has certain limitations, because we are talking about de minimis aid, i.e. aid which is not covered by the consent of the European Commission. We realize that in some cases it may not be enough. I therefore have a promise from the Deputy Minister of Finance that within two weeks it will lead to a situation in which we will bring about such legislative changes so that the European Commission can agree that this assistance to entrepreneurs will be greater. We are working for those entrepreneurs who have limited revenues during this period. I wanted to tell you that we are trying to compensate them for these losses wherever possible. Polish police, Polish troops use the services of these entrepreneurs in Białowieża, in Hajnówka, in other towns, so that they have income. They're just staying there. I don't agree with the statements that were made here in this courtroom that our officers have bad living conditions. [[Voice from the room: They have bad.]] There's nothing specific here. There are different rumors, different stories dissolved by many people. Don't believe in them, and if... [[Voice from the room: Mothers write.]] [[Voice from the room: Believe anyone from the Platform? Oh, no.]] I'll tell you this: don't really repeat disinformation. Yes, the servants have had a difficult day today. Stay away from disinformation, from criticism. Really stand by the wall behind the Polish uniform. It's worth it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are aware that the situation is extraordinarily outrageous. This isn't the usual time. But I remind you that when we introduced a state of emergency, these were the words: What, you were scared of 30 Afghans on the Belarusian side of Usnar? No, we just knew that this situation would escalate, that it would move on. It's moving on. And we have adopted the following principle: we stand firm at the border, we strengthen our forces as much as the Lukashenka regime escalates strongly. And we are also conducting international actions, because it was on the initiative of Poland that, thanks to our efforts, the European Union threatened airlines with sanctions. We are the ones who have sought this out, and so many airlines are no longer flying to Minsk. I agree that internationalising this problem is our strength, but there will be no strength if we are not tough and strong at the border, ladies and gentlemen. It depends very much on it, because they care about the strong, not the weak. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to reassure Members who say that we are jeopardizing, as the honourable Member has said, borderors. The bordermen are Belarusian, we have the Border Guard. We risk borderers - this is russicism, which is, of course, often used. This is not a complaint to the Member, but this is the order of this discussion. Are we jeopardizing how I wrote this down, their lives and their health because we're giving new means of direct coercion? [[Voice from the room: No training?]] But who said that without training? Who said? These are simply infantile arguments, Madame. [[The voice from the room: No, it's infantile...]] No. The new means of direct coercion will strengthen their security in border clashes. It's just that. [[Voice from the hall: Police are prepared with many trainings.]] [[Voice from the room: Psychological support is needed.]] That is why we will train and train our officers. Don't worry about it. [[Voice from the room: Stop fake news dissemination, it won't be needed support.]] [[Voice from the hall: Do not disturb, let him speak.]] What a gracious agreement, sir. [[Voice from the hall: I live there.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you really want to talk outside the plenary room? At the moment, the Minister is responding. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: I, ladies and gentlemen, listen to one of the Members. I believe Mr Wilczyński said that he has great respect for the Border Guard... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] ...and then Mrs Kretkowska left and said that not giving help to the person who needs it is a prohibited act. Then who's not helping? Then who doesn't give this help, my fellow Member? [[Voice from the room: Border Guard.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] The Border Guard isn't helping? Do you have any respect for the Border Guard or are you accusing her of crimes? [[Voice from the room: Respect for life is important too!]] [[I'm accusing you because you...]] I would like to tell you that any person who needs help who needs a doctor, water, food... [[Voice from the room: Pushback!]] ...be dry clothing, such help from our officers receives. From the police, the army and the Border Guard. [[Applause]] But we will not help those who throw stones at us. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] We will not help those who attack us. [[Voice from the hall: But in the woods people sit.]] We will not help those who destroy our border devices. [[Are they in Poland, the ones throwing rocks?]] [[Voice from the room: Where is Kramek? Where's Kramek?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I was gonna say yes... Mr Kalet, please. [[You're right, you're right, you're emotional.]] Yes, but Poles listen to this debate, so please be moderate. Everyone's giving a witness. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Polish soldiers, Polish police officers, Polish border guards are very positive about the introduction of a state of emergency and the introduction of certain restrictions. It helped in their work, it will still help in their work. If you want to show respect, if you want to support them, if you really are behind them, then support this bill. I ask you very much on behalf of the services that the Minister of the Interior oversees, on behalf of Polish soldiers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Answer the question.]] [[Minister, answer me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u691	Thank you kindly, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, also asked for the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u692	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 6.5 hours of discussion today on an urgent project with which the government comes to Parliament. Over 3 hours - I said this as rapporteur - an ongoing discussion on whether it is worth discussing at all. Because the platform's motion was to reject it right away. Now there are charges against your marshal that this is some sort of restriction of discussion... [[It is. 30 seconds for the debate on the security of Poland.]] ...that there's no discussion. 6.5 hours of discussion about the matter with which the Polish government is reporting to Parliament, with an urgent bill to ensure - because we still have the Senate in Parliament - that this law enters into force and that the Border Guard, of which you say that your fate is so interested in you, and police, military and other services have facilitated action. How can this be otherwise done, how can one act differently than dealing with it as a committee of substance and now in plenary of the Sejm, so that this law can be adopted as soon as possible? It's obvious, as the classics say. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: At least one.]] What do we have? We have the following thing. At this meeting there was no more, I asked, the Platform's motion for rejection, which means there is no longer this element. So we're predicting that we're going to attack the government, but we're not saying we're rejecting it anymore. 'Cause there's something that needs to be done. Besides, it's even with the Left, because this is where the Left and the Platform connect very nicely. However, there are proposals and I have them in front of me - 11 proposals, as I have well counted, 11 amendments - which were tabled by the parliamentary wheel Holovnia 2050. The PSL also tabled three amendments, which the committee will be working on tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, I will return to what Minister Wąsik was also talking about. Are we just going to be dealing with this element that we're talking about here -- that there's a tragic situation on this border? She is, of course, but as parliamentarians, let's focus on what we're responsible for. Because we're going to make the law and we're going to help the government in this situation, and we're going to guarantee that there's going to be a relatively easier job because it's not going to be easy. And today was the whole discussion. That is why, Your Marshal, I have this request that we return, because we have worked in the Committee on Culture on a position which, it seemed, could be adopted without much problem after the last plenary session of the Sejm, but nevertheless these problems were. The platform left the meeting, left completely and did not participate in the creation of this position. The others, for that, can be thanked. Ladies and gentlemen, what is this element concerning this particular provision in the Act? The bill isn't long. Well, unconstitutional, I guess. The PiS is violating the law again. We're all in favour of helping them, but we can't make it official because it's obviously against the law. Ladies and gentlemen, there are people defending Poland, defending the European Union and wanting help, not academic discussion at the moment, whether it violates or not. Even if that were the case, it is the weighing of the point, Mr... [[They don't need pseudocuts.]] ...weighting the right. And I think that as Members we should focus on helping not only declare, because now you are all coming out of the opposition and saying: thank you, Minister, please tell us, we are so... And then it falls to me that the guards are guilty of our service, the government is guilty, everyone is guilty. But, of course, Lukashenka and the whole regime are not guilty, they are freedom fighters. [[Voice from the Chamber: But, Mr President, let's not say that. Obviously, it's obvious.]] [[What kind of lie is that?]] [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]] Yeah, well, it was full of bullshit. There was a lot of bullshit in this room. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion... [[Karczewski was at Lukashenka's.]] [[Voice from the hall: From you someone said about a warm man.]] ...end of the year, the state of emergency will end its legal life, the bill, I hope, will enter into force and be signed by the president. The construction of fences to increase security will be ongoing, and at the same time our soldiers, police officers, border guards, all the services that operate there will feel that behind them is at least a parliamentary majority, and they will feel that what they are doing is acceptable, and Poles are in favour of doing so to protect the Polish border and to persevere, not to let the narrative be built, that the so-called. Humanitarianism is absolutely beyond measure. Today the first task is to protect the Polish border and help the Polish government to secure this border. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u693	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objections, they'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 16 November. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to the statements to be closed. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club, will make his first statement. At the same time, I would like to remind you that statements can also be made in writing. And you don't have to wait. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u694	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed changes in the working time of teachers in the framework of the Polish Order, consisting in increasing the salary and additional compulsory work in the school premises for 8 hours a week, raise not only the opposition of trade unions, but also concerns of local authorities about the costs of such a reform. Additional 8 working hours every week for each teacher is additional, in addition professionally equipped rooms, which for today simply do not exist in schools. Unless teachers and students are required to work two shifts. According to Minister Czarnek, I quote: If there are no working conditions for teachers in any school, it is Polish Load and huge resources that local government officials from different parts of Poland can reach and reach, so these working conditions of teachers can be improved with these government funds. For self-governments, such a proposal by the Ministry of National Education is like a joke.It would be a joke to sacrifice the Netherlands, because first the government of PiS took money from local governments, and now within the same Polish Łódź it graciously gives back money, but pays back in a low percentage, in addition to dividing it in Warsaw. Therefore, the question of who will pay for additional places to work in schools and other ideas of Minister Czarnek is up to date. Will you pay Minister Czarnek with your private money, or maybe for any damage caused by the PiS reforms will be paid again by local government officials, which is just all of us, ladies and gentlemen of Poles? I'm also asking you to answer two questions. Question one: Has the Ministry of National Education checked whether all Polish schools are prepared to carry out 8 hours of additional teaching work in school buildings? I am counting on a comprehensive report from the Ministry of National Education on this matter. And second question: How much will it cost on a national scale to build and equip schoolrooms for this task, and who will cover these costs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u695	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, since I've been in session for five hours, I'm in charge of a five-minute recess. Excuse me, but this is a hygienic break. In five minutes, we'll be back with further statements. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 1 min. 08 hours 1 min 13]] I'm reopening the session. A further statement will be made by Mr Tomasz Zieliński, the Law and Justice. You're welcome. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u696	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As every year, celebrations related to the 103rd anniversary of Poland's regaining independence were celebrated in many towns on 11 November. This year in Tomaszów Lubelski these celebrations were unique, because the first Arch of Victory commemorating the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw and the 100th anniversary of Marshal Józef Piłsudski's stay in Tomaszów Lubelski was unveiled in Poland, when on March 20, 1921 in the Siwa Valley there were regiments fighting in the Battle of Komarów. As one of the initiators of the project and honorary chairman of the Tomaszewski Committee of celebrations of the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw, I am pleased that we managed to involve a very large group of people in the creation of the monument. In particular, I would like to thank the elders of Tomaszowski, Henryk Karwan, Jarosław Korzeni, Wójtek Dariusz Kozłowski, Piotr Pasieczny, Roman Miedziak, Jack Wiśniewski, Mayor Mark Łuszczynski, Ryszard Madziar, Mayor of Wołomin in 20102014, Robert Czysz, Museum Director, Andrzej Bulicz, Head of the Faculty of Education, Designers and Performers. The exposed Arch of Victory is located on the square of the 1st High School of General Education. Bartosz Głowacki is 6.5 m high and over 4 m wide and is decorated with bronze castings. The symbolism of the arc is very significant. On the eastern side dedicated to the Battle of Warsaw centrally there are figures of charging a horse, footman and Fr. Ignacy Shells. On the pillars of the arch is the image of Our Lady of Grace and the legion eagle. On the western side dedicated to Józef Piłsudski, a relief of the bust of the marshal was centrally placed, while on the pillars - the Virtuti Militari Cross and the sign of the foresters who supported Piłsudski during his activities in the conspiracy. The buildings of the Arch of Victory were accompanied by a number of patriotic projects. One of them was to commemorate places that were real symbols of regaining independence. Together with the initiators, we were in Oleandra, where Józef Piłsudski and his first staff brigade set out in 1914. We visited the places of battles: Radzymin, where some of the heaviest fights took place during the Battle of Warsaw, Ossów, the town where scouts, students and students first fought against the Bolsheviks, Komarów, where the Bolshevik horse army of Budionny was defeated. We also went to Lviv and Vilnius. From all these towns we received from people who took care of the land, which in special urns was placed at the base of the arch on the map of the reborn Second Republic. This exhibition is enriched with artifacts from the years 1918 to 1920 and symbols of defeated conquerors: German and Austrian are shattered replicas of coats of arms, Russian - broken into half Bolshevik sickle and hammer. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The unveiling of the Arch of Victory was a great patriotic manifestation, during which the inhabitants of the city and the county gathered many times. I invite everyone to Tomaszów Lubelski. I sincerely hope that thanks to this construction, incomprehensible inability will be broken and new monuments commemorating the Battle of Warsaw will be erected very quickly, including the most important arch of victory in Warsaw. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u697	Thank you, sir. Mr Sławomir Skwarek, Law and Justice. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u698	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 14 November, I attended the unveiling and consecration of the monument of soldiers cursed from the Centre 44. Sobieszyn AK-WiN in the municipality of Ułęż in the district rycki in Lublin. This event was symbolic, although not so easy to restore the historical truth about Major soldiers. Mariana Bernaciaka, Orlika. In areas where the independence suburbs in 1939 and 1947, but many years later, were extremely opposed to external invaders, Germany and the Soviets, but also to internal enemies, only decades later was a worthy place of remembrance. At the initiative of the municipality of Ułęż and personally you, Mrs Barbara Pawlak, in cooperation with the Circle of the World Association of National Army Soldiers in Ryki, received funding from the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. The ceremony was attended not only by residents of the surrounding towns, but also mainly by families of soldiers of the 44th institution. Sobieszyn, now spread all over Poland. There were also young people from local schools, scouts from the Association of Scouts of the Republic, as well as young people from uniformed classes. Historical associations and reconstructive groups have arrived. The chaplain Fr. Edmund Sharek, Dean of the Rycki Fr. Stanisław Chojko and parish priest in Sobieszyn Fr. Marcus Śliwa. Before the unveiled and consecrated monument there was an appeal of memory with the participation of the honorary company Dęblin garrison and the military orchestra also from Dęblin. Those gathered were moved to hear the names of those who were to be forgotten forever, those to whom false and manipulated accusations are still being cast. Soldiers cursed, Lublin wolves, sons and daughters from the vicinity of Ułęża, Nowodworu, Wola Gułowska, Blisocina, Adamowa, Serokomli, fighting for the homeland and faith of fathers, usually faithful to the end of the military oath. They did not agree to the Soviet occupation, to Poland without God. They fought under Major's command. Mariana Bernaciaka, Orlika, por. Jaskułski, Zagończyk, etc. Kitchen and Commandants of the facility 44.: cf. Józef Grzechnik Józef Kwasniewski, Dragon. Wenceslas Micha, a waterman, a sick man. Jan Sulej, Bistry, chorus. Jan Niedbalski, Nitetsky, under the spiritual leadership of the chaplain Fr. Aleksander Zalski, Maciej. Nearly half a thousand people across the outpost, nearly one third of them were killed or imprisoned. The monument was erected by victims of German, Soviet and communist catholics. The monument in Sobieszyn will not only be an expression of memory and historical truth, but also a warning in our current difficult political situation. There are values you can't step on. The Triad God, honor, homeland for Poles will always be the most important. This message sounded in a patriotic program prepared by young people. This uplifting and touching event right there in Sobieszyn shows that returning to the roots and explaining hidden facts from history, difficult history, for our local communities, and above all for the young generation, are extremely important. They also teach us how to build a community and how much patriotism we need today. In conclusion: in the municipality Ułęż the local government cares not only about development and ensuring adequate living standards for residents, but also about its local historical and cultural heritage, about its identity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u699	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u700	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the few. On the shadow of the next anniversary of regaining independence there is another date of a completely different nature. On November 12, 2004, Stanisław Skalski, the first Polish aviation ace of World War II, left for the eternal service, a man faithful to his beliefs. He was born in Kresy in 1915. After graduation he starts his studies at the University of Technology, but fascinated by aviation he abandons her and starts his studies at the Dęblin School of Aviation. He completes his higher piloting course and begins his service in the 142nd hunting squadron in Toruń. In 1938, he was promoted to lieutenant. He has the reputation of a horned soul and a uncompromising man who even superiors can respond in an uncensored way. He was disciplined three times before the war for insulting his superior, deliberately opening a parachute too late and publicly expressing his willingness to fight against the Japanese on China's side. His feud, which caused him so much trouble during the war, was a blessing. Within a few days of the September campaign, five German planes are shot down, becoming an unwritten ace of Polish aviation. He's doing an unprecedented job landing next to a German plane that's been shot down and helping his crew. During the battle for England, he fought in the 501 British fighter squadron, shooting down more German planes. He flew with success in Polish hunting divisions. He fought in Africa as part of an unofficial unit called the Skalski Circus, with a lot of victories. He's one of the most experienced Allied fighter pilots. He was awarded many high Polish and British decorations, including Virtuti Militari. The British offer him very prestigious leadership positions in the Royal Air Force, but Skalski refuses. After the end of the war, he decides without hesitation to return to Poland. However, it was not the Poland he knew and dreamed of. Nevertheless, as one of the few pilots returning from the West, he begins to work in the army as a piloting technician. When he engages in the search for a pilot Władysław Śliwiński arrested by security, he is arrested and sentenced to death after a very brutal investigation for alleged espionage for British intelligence. This is where Skalski's incompetence came to light again. All the way through the investigation, he didn't confess to anything and said he was innocent. He thought that if he had written a request for pardon, he would have confessed to the charges. He's been on death row for over a year, knowing that any keys or footsteps in the hallway can be a prelude to the execution of the death penalty. However, Skalski's close friends had no doubt, thinking that the most important thing is that he survives. The pilot's mother turned to Bolesław Bierut, who changed his sentence for life. After several years of legal battles on a wave of thaws in 1956. Stanisław Skalski is getting out of prison. Aviation is his great love, so he decides to join the army again and undergos training on jet planes. After 1989, he tries to get involved in a new political life, which is not particularly good for him. In his old age, in the last years of his life he was completely robbed, died alone in a social home. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u701	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Rutka, Lewis Club. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u702	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Georgia, Turkey, Nepal, Haiti - wherever there were natural disasters, but also humanitarian disasters, Polish medics, Polish rescuers, came to the fore with immediate help. It was no different if the humanitarian situation in the areas near the Polish-Belarusian border worsened. Medics, paramedics and, most importantly, volunteers led by heart instinct, solidarity, but above all, humanity began to help. From this point on, as President of the Parliamentary Team on the System of Medical Rescue, I express my highest gratitude, admiration and appreciation, among others. for the group "Medicians at the border', volunteers and volunteers from the Border Group and the group "Family without borders'. What you have done and continue to do to help refugees who seek refuge from war, hunger in the Podlaski forests, and often and death, deserves the highest respect. The fact that the ambulances of the group at the border have not been admitted into the emergency zone does not find any justification and cannot be explained in any way. On November 8th, rescuers from the border group were prevented from entering the zone even when they received a coughing blood report. A week ago, along with the transport of humanitarian aid collected by the group of families without borders, I stayed in Hajnówka and Michałów. I had the opportunity to meet wonderful people who were sensitive to human harm, people who sacrificed their free time and money to help those who were crying out for help. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u703	Thank you, sir. As far as Haiti is concerned, I was among those volunteers, because we need to help there, on the spot, and not accept that they push our borders. [[I was there...]] Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice. You're welcome. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u704	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Polish people and Poles! Allow me, Marshal, that the first two paragraphs I will refer to your characteristic attitude when there was a Ukrainian-Russian conflict, when there were mass demonstrations in Belarus, and you went there in a symbolic gesture not only in fact, but also in such a European solidarity with these nations, to encourage them to support them, because this was also extremely expected by them. And thanking you, Mrs. Marshal, for this attitude, referring to her, I would like to invite us, presently observing the situation at the border of Polish-Belarusian Poles, Poles and Poles, to follow in your footsteps, so that we also consider that Polish soldiers, Polish officers and officers of the Border Guard, police officers and police officers and all other formations which are now fighting in an extraordinary agony about the integrity of the Polish border and the security of all of us, Polish and Polish, need evidence of support, just such gestures as you, your marshal, were courageous to make against the Belarusian people, the Ukrainian people. We look in various communicators at scenes that freeze blood in our veins. Sometimes we're powerless in rage and we think, "Why is Lukashenka doing this? At the same time, we are considering the cause of this state of affairs. But I think it's hard for us daily bread-eaters to figure out what the geopolitic passions are doing to the genes of Minsk or others who adopt a certain power policy and try to implement it at the expense of lost, confused, imported from other cultural areas of poor people. Therefore, today I trust that no Polish woman and no Polish woman have doubts about the vileness and wickedness of the behaviour of the Lukashenka regime. This leads us to the need for support directed to Polish soldiers, officers, all who guard borders, both sexes. I would like to repeat these words: I ask you, citizens and citizens, to recognize that it is worthwhile to behave so that they need it, that they must feel the loving breath of the community of the nation, which in warm whispers gives them a good word and a warm prayer for them and for their intentions, so that nothing happens to them, that they may return safe and sound. Let us do this and do it as zealously and continually as they are zealously, relentlessly and effectively guarding our border. We're in the Octave of Independence. These days we referred to the fathers of independence in 1918. Today is our civic commitment. Today you and I, as well as the entire community of contemporary Poles, are becoming independent fathers and mothers. Those who have been sent to guard the borders do so in heroic deeds, while we, who are in the interior of the country, take the actions of glorious support, solidarity and prayer for those who defend. Polish people and Poles! Let's stand a wall behind the Polish uniform today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u705	Thank you, sir. Thank you for these words, but also for the words addressed to those who defend our borders. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Then Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u706	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I came back from the border a few days ago. The state in which a Member cannot enter the Polish land is incompatible with his democratic mandate. I do not agree that there are areas in Poland where people are left to themselves, cut them off from the world, and journalists cannot inform about the wickedness that is happening there, areas where human rights do not apply. [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]] I do not agree that there are forests in Poland where people die, medical professionals cannot help and where organisations that save lives are not allowed. The authors of these restrictions have taken away their hatred, and now they have to extend it in an unconstitutional way. Unfortunately, political cynicism is also driving these people to sustain the crisis rather than to resolve it. But from today's statement by the Deputy Prime Minister on Kaczyński's security matters, the opposition is still the biggest threat in Poland. Now listen to the voice of reason that flows from above the border. Here is the position of Bialowieza Humanitarian Action: The group of inhabitants of Białowieża, lying in a state of emergency, following the constitutional and Christian principle of primacy of the values of human life, call for action by the Białowieża Humanitarian Action. We are people with different political views, atheists and believers, we perform different professions, we have our families, we are very young people and also seniors experienced in life, but we have a deep conviction that providing humanitarian aid to people in extremely difficult situations of life is our right and our civic duty. Living in an emergency zone, we can't count on outside assistance, we don't have medical or media support. We were left entirely alone with a situation beyond our imaginations. Still, we want to bring help to those in need. The weather is getting worse, the temperature is dropping, and we're getting more and more information about the deaths. We know this forest better than uniforms coming from all over Poland and we know that it is impossible to survive. It is inhuman and unacceptable to condemn people to death from cold and starvation by not helping them. We will not be passive observers! We don't want to pick corpses out of our woods! We are open to cooperation with local authorities, uniformed services, workplaces, organisations and private individuals. We expect that our activities, in accordance with applicable law, will not be hindered or harassed. The provision of humanitarian aid understood as securing basic life needs in no way infringes the rules in force in the emergency zone. The events of the last few weeks have changed our lives. Many have lost their ability to do work for a living, and it is not known when they will get it back. The psychological pressure, daily functioning in the climate of war, the dramatic moral choices we face, also make us victims of this situation. What we are experiencing now will remain within us and will not pass with the leaving of the army. Therefore, in the care of the people in need, in the care of us, the inhabitants, in the care of the future of our village we must act together. We invite you to cooperate with everyone who shares our position. Białowieża, 14 November 2021.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u707	Thank you, Member. I do not agree that Members will compromise this House and Poland by running across the border and acting outrageously. [[This is a quote from the locals. Those aren't my words. These are the words of the people of Podlasie.]] I do not agree that Members should compromise this House. I don't agree either... [[I don't agree with your marshal reviewing my statement. These are the words of the people of Bialowieza.]] Or am I not referring to you? [[That's a quote.]] I do not agree that terrorists attack Polish soldiers at the border, to attack the Border Guard, to attack the Polish Police behind your total opposition, with permission. [[No one's talked about it.]] I do not agree that these same terrorists use their children for propaganda purposes by Alexander Lukashenka and Vladimir Putin. Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u708	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Warsaw, the civic budget, which has been implemented since 2014, was initially called a participatory budget. This budget was intended to serve as an action whereby residents directly decide on the allocation of a small part of the budget of the local government unit. Each government has its own rules on the basis of which the citizen's budget operates. It usually appears that projects are submitted after the call for proposals to the civil budget. In Warsaw, they are projects on a regional and urban level. These projects are first assessed by officials in terms of compliance with city policy. And here we have the first place where it comes to rejecting uncomfortable projects for officials and Warsaw City Hall under the pretence of non-compliance with documents promoting or programming the development of the capital city of Warsaw. So the clerk knows better what the resident needs. The voting procedure shall then take place. The people vote for projects that they think should be implemented. On the one hand, the citizen's budget was intended to activate the inhabitants in terms of public life, on the other hand, it was intended to help increase the relevance of the investment decisions made by the local authorities. Initially, the interest in the participating budget from the inhabitants of the capital was very high. About 170 thousand took part in the vote. persons. Over time, when it turned out that many uncomfortable projects for the Warsaw authorities were rejected, this interest decreased and today the number of voters was 94 thousand. persons. In addition, the participatory budget has become a tool which officials of Warsaw City Hall and Warsaw Districts use to implement projects that were not within the city or district budget. Another thing that perverts the idea of the civil budget is that there is no possibility to vote against projects that, according to the people, are unnecessary or harmful. An example of this is the project of creating a playground in Dolina Służewska. The project was invented by one of the urban activists and declared as a city-wide initiative. Why is it a city-wide initiative? Because if the people of the district were to vote on it, they probably wouldn't have been supported, because the people didn't agree and they didn't agree to the idea. In Dolina Służewska, which is a place of natural growth of many plants and animals, it was decided to create a playground. Meanwhile, the residents did not want a playground. They wanted to be able to enjoy nature there. Nevertheless, the idea was pushed and the authorities of Warsaw, to the satisfaction of the applicant and to the despair of the inhabitants, simply realized it. The lack of possibility to vote against unwanted projects, the implementation of projects that did not fit into the budget for a given year, the increasing participation of hybrids in voting on projects means that within a few years the idea of the civil budget has been distorted in Warsaw, leading it to caricature in many places. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u709	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna Pieczarka, Law and Justice. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u710	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the beginning, I would like to thank you very much for all forms of support for saving monuments, cemeteries from World War I, places of national memory or roadside crosses. Thanks to the financial assistance saved and saved from oblivion are extremely valuable traces of the heroic past of our ancestors. In Poland, as you know, monuments are subject to legal protection. The state, through the activities of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, supports the owners of monuments in the field of reconstruction, renovation and protection against destruction. Special grants shall be provided for such work. The region of Tarnów, including the district of Tarnowski, which I represent, is known for its proper use. It is also one of the places where Poland's largest number of historical cemeteries from the times of World War I is located. It is sent with objects of national memory and marked with blood spilled for the freedom of the country. Thanks to this kind of symbiosis, cooperation for saving monuments in the mentioned Tarnowski district, one of the largest cemeteries of the Polish Legions was recently renovated in the town of Lowczówek in the village of Plesna. Thanks to the Ministry's financial support, renovations were carried out there. Work related to the renovation of fences, tombstones, central alleys and stairs was carried out. Visiting the south of Poland is worth a visit. He is an excellent example of craftsmanship in this area. It is there that on the Sunday preceding 11 November patriotic celebrations are held, during which Poland celebrates the next anniversary of regaining independence and commemorates the battle of 22 and 25 December 1914, the so-called. The battle at Hunter's. This event, in which I participate annually, is regional, often nationwide and voivodship and is called: Independence Zloty. Three years ago, Mr Andrzej Duda, the President of the Republic of Poland, was the guest of the ceremony, and now Mr Mateusz Morawiecki sent an occasional letter to the participants. Also every year, in November, a summary of the Patriotic and Tourist Monastery is held in the cemetery of the Legionists, organized by the Tarnów branch of PTTK. Both the Independence Gathering and the latter are taking part in the initiative, among others. representatives of different levels of government, combat delegations, school youth and local residents. In the pre-pandemic period, the number of participants was usually several thousand. On the albums of the Unknown Soldier's Tomb in Warsaw, among the villages famous for their military action, Lowczówek is mentioned. The battle at Łowczówek went to the pantheon of the glory of the Polish weapon. Allow me to add that 15 war cemeteries have been renovated in the Tarnów County itself in the last 2, 3 years. Historic necropolises have been modernised, among others. in the municipalities of Plesna, Radłów, Wierzchosławice, Tuchów, Żabno, Ryglice, in the town of Tarnów and in the town of Błonie in the municipality of Tarnów. It is there in the renovated cemetery, which is one of the largest of its kind in Małopolska, that the communal celebrations of the National Independence Day took place. The examples of renewed places related to the history of Poland and the patriotic initiatives concerning the celebration of national holidays mentioned by me are real, lively lessons of our heritage. The areas occupied by the blood of those who fought for freedom, for our imagination, for modern people, speak authentically, and thus very uniquely. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u711	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u712	The question should be asked: Will the Ministry of Education and Science push the hours of availability, i.e. the compulsory work of a school teacher, into the costs of education? The changes pushed by MEiN raise not only the opposition of trade unionists, but also a great deal of concern among local authorities. This kind of rationalization requires, above all, a place at school and appropriate equipment. When you come up with something, you should have the money to do it. Will MEiN hand them over?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u713	Statement on Col. Veronica Sebastianovich, soldier of the National Army, member of the armed anti-communist underground, president of the AK Army Association in Belarus, on the occasion of the 90th birthday. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 2 days ago the 90th birthday was celebrated by Colonel of the Polish Army Weronik Sebastianowicz ps. Rosemary. She joined the Home Army and was sworn in when she was 13. After the war, she was arrested, tortured and sentenced to 25 years of imprisonment. Ms Weronika is President of the AK Army Association in Belarus - of course not recognized by the Belarusian authorities. Awarded with the Officer's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland for outstanding merits for the independence of the Republic of Poland, the international award of the Witness of History given by the IPN, as well as the Semper Fidelis award. Advanced by the Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz to the rank of Major at rest and then to the rank of Colonel. Mrs Veronica, please accept your warm wishes for health and God's graces, as well as your thanks for your service to our homeland. 100 years.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u714	Statement on commemorating the 83rd anniversary of crystal night. To commemorate the first mass anti-Jewish pogrom in the Third Reich on 9 November in Gliwice, Bytom, Pyskowice, Toszku, Wielkowsi and Zabrze, the memory of those against whom the attackers' actions during crystal night were directed was commemorated. In a universal historiography, this event is referred to as crystal night, the meaning of which comes from fragments of glass and crystals from destroyed sites of Jewish shops and apartments. The initiator of the event commemorating the 83rd anniversary was the Upper Silesian Jewish Memorial House, a branch of the Gliwice Museum. According to historians, the scale and brutality of the actions of the attackers who took part in the crystal night in November 1938 was the announcement of the Holocaust, which was to take place several years later. Under no circumstances can this behavior be identified also by the first manifestation of the anti-Semitic policy of the German authorities, because the economic boycott of the Jews had been introduced accordingly. In Gliwice the meeting place during the celebrations was ul. The average, it's where the plaque commemorates the burnt synagogue is located. The synagogue operated here from 1861 to 1938. It was destroyed by the Nazis on crystal night. I encourage you to familiarize yourself with the historical sources of the Museum in Gliwice, which informs you that more information on this subject can be found by visiting the permanent exhibition in the House of Remembrance of Jews of Górnośląskie at ul. Poniatowskie 14. I would like my statement to be a souvenir of those events, a tribute to the fallen, and a specific statement of opposition to all forms of racism and intolerance, as it was on 9 November that the International Day for Combating Fascism and Anti-Semitism was established.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u715	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! For more than a month we have witnessed an increasing crisis at the border of the European Union, the Polish-Belarusian border. It is certain that this crisis requires broad, responsible, partnership and effective political and diplomatic action. Meanwhile, the Polish state is written on the blackest pages of the history of its own nation. The mind fell asleep, the demons of power, power, and a complex of unfulfilled power woke up. The President of Belarus has nationalised trafficking in human beings. In response, you let the nationalist dogs off the leash, at the same time you showed the Poles the video of a zoophile character, insinuating the pedophilia of foreigners. Minister Kaminski once again exceeded the boundaries of decency, but also decided to heat up the well-known xenophobia in Poland. Expressly PiS, Confederation, Solidarna Polska, Konferencja, Kukiz and - unfortunately - Coalition Poland adopted a law on construction of fences at the border on unclear, compromising conditions, not even knowing the technology in which it is to be created, spending almost PLN 2 billion with a light hand. I understand that the state of emergency will end, although I am not sure, because you have just authorized the convicted in the past for exceeding Minister Wąsik's powers to introduce a state of emergency, restricting citizens' freedom of movement in their own country. What's next? Law of war? Pending the press conference of Prime Minister Morawiecki at Antonova with cement and bricks, I would like to remind you that the proper functioning of the government should be based not on fear and strength, but above all on humanitarianism and constitutional principles. Art. 40 constitutions are clear: no man can be tortured in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Throwing children into the swamp and into the woods is a form of torture. Chief Kaczyński, Prime Minister Morawiecki and Minister Kaminski know that there is no obstacle that a desperate man cannot overcome. So what can the Republic do? 1. It can combine diplomatic and trans-state activities. I would like to know from the ministries whether and what talks are being held with the European Union, as well as, in the face of possible expansion of the crisis at the Polish-Ukrainian border, talks with our allies from NATO. It is within these two organisations that we should solve this problem. 2. It can act politically efficiently - looking for opportunities to influence the Belarusian regime in an economic and diplomatic way, including with the help of European partners, and to involve the opposition in a way planned to be discussed through the RCN. 3. He can prepare for the reception and verification of refugees. These actions, as we know, are rushed. We need extra seats in foreign centers, which are starting to look like ghettos filled with ghettos, as the ombudsman says. If we want to grow a problem, that's what we're doing. After taking care of foreigners, we can send them home. We also know that most foreigners have documents, their verification should not cause any particular trouble for our services. The Prime Minister knows that too, Minister Kaminski knows that, but they prefer not to tell the Polish people the truth. 4. Poland should face up to its challenge in the face of this crisis. Not by throwing children into the swamp, but by acting in accordance with the ideas we have adopted by signing the European Convention on Human Rights. Internally, the elite of this country should not shout out who is the greater agent of foreign influence. We all believe that we serve the Republic, so let us serve it as best we can. We know very well that until the regime in Minsk is weakened, people will be killed in the forests along the border, mainly victims of human trafficking, but also radical action by the Polish government tearing victims from dignity and their rights. The Republic can do better than that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u716	Declaration by Members on the insufficient financing of the Mountain Voluntary Emergency Service. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mountain Volunteer Emergency Service, GOPR, is an organization that carries out tasks in the field of mountain rescue. GOPR rescuers run numerous rescue and training activities. It is they who prevent accidents in mountain areas in Poland and help everyone who needs them. The work of GOPR rescuers is extremely difficult and has responsibility. They reach the needy regardless of weather, season, or place, which is often a challenge in mountain areas. GOPR paramedics change full 24-hour shifts all the days of the year in their emergency stations. Today they use modern rescue equipment, which greatly improves their work, such as off-road cars, quads, snowmobiles, avalanche detectors, GPS, radio stations, etc. Thanks to their equipment they are able to help even faster and more efficiently, which significantly affects the safety of mountain tourists. Despite the equipment we have, there are situations where there is not enough, which means that we are unable to provide assistance. In such situations, GOPR rescuers or environments around them themselves organise collections for specialised equipment that are often supported by private individuals. The operation of the Mountain Volunteer Emergency Service is possible thanks to the Ministry of Interior and Administration, but this is not sufficient. As a representative of the deer-legnica land, I would like to draw attention to the growing needs of rescue groups. Everyone who has been in the mountains - whether in the Sudetes or in the Carpathians or in the Świętokrzyskie Mountains - knows how important the work of mountain rescuers is and how important the equipment they have is. The GOPR Foundation organized a fundraiser for the necessary equipment, paying attention to the fact that the time to raise funds is getting less and less, because the winter will soon be in the mountains for good. Skiers, skiers, mountain racers, and dry waltzing will appear. These activities require mountain rescuers specialized equipment so that they can effectively help the victims. GOPR rescuers help and save lives. It is extremely important that they be able to carry this aid effectively, using all necessary equipment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u717	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On November 16th, we celebrate International Tolerance Day worldwide. This is a holiday established by the UN General Assembly by a resolution of 12 December 1995. The feast was established on the initiative of UNESCO. The date of this holiday is not random. It was on 16 November 1995 that the UNESCO Member States adopted a declaration on the principles of tolerance. In the declaration we will find among others. A signpost on how we should understand the need for tolerance. It says that tolerance is respect, acceptance and recognition of the richness of the diversity of cultures in the world, our forms of expression and ways of being human. It promotes knowledge, openness, communication and freedom of speech, conscience and faith. Tolerance is harmony in diversity. It is not only a moral obligation, but also a legal and political condition. Tolerance, the value that makes possible peace, contributes to replacing war culture with a culture of peace. Today we especially need tolerance and respect for each other. We need acceptance for diversity, which is a part of each of us. International Tolerance Day can be an opportunity to reflect on this. Reflection on our attitudes towards other people, in particular people and groups particularly vulnerable to social exclusion. This is the reflection of the High House on this particular day I encourage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u718	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! When thousands of migrants being transported to Belarus are trying to get to Poland, when the actions of sending immigrants from Africa and Asia to the Polish-Belarusian border are underway by the Lukashenka regime, the PiS government takes firm decisions. The Government of the United Right, aware of the threat, wants professional barriers to which about PLN 1.5 billion must be secured at the border. The opposition politicians criticize this initiative, saying: "The great rampart, not the wall is planning the PIS, and they vote against its construction. I feel the need to present examples of the embarrassment of opposition politicians in the face of the threat of the Polish and EU border. Member of the Civic Coalition Franciszek Sterczewski tried to break through the cordon of Polish border guards and police. The world watched a video of his discrediting race and fall. It was pathetic to see that politician among the officers trying to get through to the nomadic immigrants. The sympathizer with the opposition Władysław Frasyniuk called Polish soldiers garbage and wattah of dogs. His position was defended by Boris Budek, former head of the PO. He claimed that the opponent had no evil intentions at all. It is a good thing that there are people like Frasyniuk - added the Euro-Message of the Left Robert Biedron. "Władysław Frasyniuk raises an important question," stressed Leszek Balcerowicz, former Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and President of the NBP. He asked if the people guarding our borders were Polish soldiers at all. Member of the Civic Platform Robert Kropiwnicki, owner of nine apartments, said on TVP Info: "These people who are in the camp under the barrels of rifles should simply be accepted and sent back legally quickly. Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Vice-Marshal of the Senate of the Left, appeared personally on the Polish-Belarusian border crossing. She criticized the attitude of the soldiers, and, speaking to them, compared them to the Communist security officers. The country facing the leader of Central Europe is afraid of a group of refugees at the border - ironically Robert Biedron of the Left. He criticized the construction of the dam and proposed a state of emergency. Man's life is of paramount value, and we? We were supposed to introduce democracy, human rights, and... starve people? This government already has blood on its hands. Katarzyna Lubnauer of KO, former Chief of Modern Technology, behaved in no different way. She has repeatedly criticised the introduction of a state of emergency. She assured me that there was no need, and by introducing restrictions, the government wanted to cover its problems. The unique state does not seal borders, but hides how leaky they are - it concluded. "Eventually let these people into Poland!" - appealed Iwona Hartwich from the Civic Coalition, who became a member of the occupation of the Sejm with children and other parents with disabilities. Who are they, will be decided later! What are you on duty for? If you don't know how to guard borders or find a way to get to Lukashenka, you build fences - you judge the policies of the Platform and former head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the government of Donald Tusk Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz. Maciej Gdula of the Left called for at least women and children to be admitted to Poland. The Member personally appeared at the border and demanded that he be allowed to move to immigrants. He estimated that Poland should develop a plan for the reception of refugees from Afghanistan under our conditions. We should welcome women and children. The rest ensure fair conditions at the border - he commented. Despite the fact that the government sent further humanitarian transports to the border, a Member of the Civic Coalition, Claudia Jachira, said that it was the Belarusians who supported immigrants by providing them with clothes and food. That's not the end of it. Attacking the Polish government, which had opposed the entry of illegal immigrants from the beginning, she referred to the worst German crimes - concentration camps. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The situation that we are currently dealing with at the Polish-Belarusian border is the most serious test for our services for decades. Polish soldiers, border guards and police officers give this test with aim every day. The rhetorical question is why the opposition failed the exam.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-16-sejm-42-1.u719	It's hard to believe it's already... I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 9. Thank you all for your perseverance, your employees for your sacrifice. I'll see you in the morning. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 1 min 47]]
