ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u1	Please take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to remind you that they are in the same way as yesterday and the day before yesterday, which is hybrid proceedings. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 17, 18 and 19 February. The order of this meeting will, of course, be provided to you by electronic means. Your senate, I remind you that at about an hour. The meeting will be held in the meeting room with the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Maroš Šefčovič, responsible for interinstitutional relations and forecasting. The meeting will adopt the videoconference formula with the participation of translators. We cordially invite you, on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Senate Bureau, to attend this important meeting. Dear Senators, we will now proceed with the test vote, which is solely intended to demonstrate the number of senators currently attending the sitting. I'm asking you to give me any vote. Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted. [[Voting No 116]] So many senators are currently attending the meeting. We return to the examination of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. During the session, a meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate... [[Voice from the hall: There are problems, 3 senators can't hear because there's no voice...]] [[Voice from the hall: The Senators can't hear us.]] But I guess it's not because we're having problems here, it's just... Tell them to turn on the speakers. Who can't hear us? [[Senator Dowhan, Senator Tyszkiewicz, so this is a wider problem.]] [[Voice from the room: And Senator Pup.]] Is winter interfering with communication? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Dowhan says he already has...]] Senator Dowhan has already regained his hearing... [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] ...or hearing... [[Voice from the room: Let the other people confirm.]] Please, let the others confirm, and I'll continue for now... Please try to clarify this until the votes begin. Senator Dowhan has already regained his hearing, and I hope others have, too. [[Senator Pupa already has...]] Good. Senator Tyszkiewicz. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the meeting. The report can be found in print No 303 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. At its meeting on 12 January, the Commission examined the proposals made during the debate on 11 January on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. 23 amendments were tabled during the debate. The Commission proposes to accept amendments 2, 3 and 6,23. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted together with the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u3	Thank you very much, senator. Do the senators of the applicants want to take away the voices ? Let me remind you that the Senators Szejnfeld, Piech, Borowski and Klein have submitted their conclusions. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 seeks to introduce uniform rules for the functioning of the authorities of the barrister's self-government and legal advisers during the duration of the epidemic or epidemic. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 against, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 117]] Amendment 2 indicates that the solicitor's application is to be deleted from the list of applicants by the District Council of Legal Counsellors, not by the District Chamber of Legal Counsels. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking for the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 118]] Amendment 3 seeks to ensure that the employer who is a professional activity can claim compensation for the monthly wage costs, comparable to those of the corresponding month of 2019, rather than the previous year in which the epidemics have already been in force. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 119]] Amendment 4 deletes the provisions specifying exceptions to the principle that during the duration of the epidemic or epidemic declared due to COVID-19 no implementing titles requiring the emptying of the dwelling are implemented. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 51 votes for, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 120]] Amendment 5 replaces the reference to the implementing act by reference directly to the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 121]] Attention, amendments 6 and 7 should be voted on together. These amendments include financial assistance for a period of epidemic or epidemic condition declared due to COVID-19 also for public transport operators in public transport. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 122]] Amendment 8 aims at adapting the provision to the public aid requirements for bus operators. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 123]] Amendment 9 lays down the rules for applying for exemption from the obligation to pay social, health contributions, the Labour Fund, the Solidarity Fund, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund or the Pomeranian Pension Fund by museums and other cultural institutions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 124]] Amendment 10 shortens the duration of restrictions on the application by creditors of maximum off-set credit costs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 54 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 125]] Amendment 11 corrects the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 126]] Amendment 12 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 127]] Amendment 13 seeks to ensure an internal cohesion law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 128]] Amendment 14 introduces the possibility of carrying out the checks referred to in the Public Blood Service Act in a remote manner. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted 99 in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 129]] Attention, amendments 15, 18, 20 and 22 should be voted on together. These amendments are of a more precise nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 130]] Amendment 16 seeks to ensure that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture can carry out its tasks also through a fixed loan interest payment in connection with the elimination of the adverse effects of COVID-19. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One Senator from the remote... Check it out. Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 51, 47 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 131]] Amendment 17 extends referral to protective vaccination against COVID-19 from 60 to 90 days. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted 99 in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 132]] Amendment 19 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 133]] Amendment 21 maintains implementing acts adopted on the basis of a provision authorising the amendment to this amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 99 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 134]] Amendment 23 seeks to maintain the validity of professional rights issued under the Energy Law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 98, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 135]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 136]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Strategic Reserves Act. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 304 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The Commission, at its meeting on 12 January, considered the proposals submitted during the debate on 11 January 2021. These proposals concerned the Strategic Reserves Act. During the debate, 15 amendments were tabled, but the committee recommended voting in favour of amendments Nos 1.9 and 11.15. The Commission requests the adoption of an amendment act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u5	Thank you very much, senator. Do you still want to speak as an applicant? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Attention, amendments Nos 1 and 6, 8 and 9 must be voted on together. They are technical and legislative in nature, taking into account the removal from the vocabulary of the law of unnecessary explanations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 49 for, 50 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 137]] Amendment 7 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 48 votes 51 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 138]] Attention, Amendment 10 will rule out voting on Amendment 15. This amendment aims to ensure the financing of the newly created Governmental Strategic Reserve Agency after the entry into force of the law adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, 1 for, 98 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 139]] Amendment 11 adds a provision amending the Law of 22 August 1997 on the protection of persons and property, which corrects the reference to the repealed Act of 29 October 2010 on strategic reserves. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 49 for, 51 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 140]] Amendment 12 complements the Law on the Law amending the Law of 25 August 2006 on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels, to which a reference to the Act on Strategic Reserves is introduced. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 141]] Amendment 13 introduces in the Law of 16 February 2007 on oil stocks, petroleum products and natural gas and the rules for dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the State and disturbances on the oil market the correct reference to the present law on strategic reserves. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 50 for, 50 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 142]] Amendment 14 adapts the provision amending the excise duty law to the amendments introduced by the Law of 10 December on the amendment of the excise duty law and certain other laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 49 for, 51 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 143]] Amendment 15 aims to regulate matters relating to the provision of funding to the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency in 2021 in connection with the entry into force of the Act during the financial year. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 49 for, 50 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 144]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 50 for, 50 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 145]] The conclusion was not received by the majority. In the absence of the Senate's resolution on the bill, we proceed, in accordance with the article. 54 (1) (a) 1a of the Senate Rules of Procedure, to vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favor of rejecting this bill? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One senator voting remotely... Please check if the application has been sent. Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 146]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Strategic Reserves. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the law on the settlement of the price of premises or buildings at the price of real estate sold from the municipal property stock. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 297 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted 99 in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 147]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the bill on the settlement of the price of premises or buildings at the price of real estate sold from the municipal property stock. We are back to discussing item five of the agenda: the law on promoting the generation of electricity in offshore wind farms. The Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. They are contained in senate prints No 302 A and 302 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 148]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the promotion of electricity generation in offshore wind farms. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law on amending the Prison Service Act, the Law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans, and the Act on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 296 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission recommends that the Senate adopt Amendment 1 and that amendment 5 be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u7	Thank you very much, senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the Senators of Pociej and Durlak have submitted their conclusions, and the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions was Senator Rafał Ambrozik. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 improves the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 149]] Amendment 2 adapts the wording of the amended provisions to the latest amendment of the Law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 96 for, 4 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 150]] Amendment 3 provides that the authorisation to issue an order will remain in force until the end of the epidemic or epidemic. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Two remote senators, please check the signal's transmission. Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 57 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 151]] Amendment 4 provides that a law will be the basis for the resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 152]] Amendment 5 seeks to add in the Act the rules governing the recruitment of judges and prosecutors in the framework of a competition announced in 2020. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 49 for, 50 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 153]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 154]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Prison Service Act, the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Beings and the Act on Special Solutions related to the Prevention, Prevention and Control of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law amending the Law. Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution asking for an amendment to the Act, and a minority of committees asked for amendments; Senate printing No 298 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. The amendment of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions ensures compliance of the title of the Act with the principles of legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 155]] Note that minority proposals 1 and 2 must be voted together. These proposals eliminate from the Act provisions aimed at postponeing the date of entry into force of the regulations concerning a simple public limited liability company and electronic registration proceedings which do not have a substantive connection with the fundamental purpose of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 156]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 157]] Impressive compatibility from a few sets. In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law. Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws. We would like to return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions and the Legislative Commission have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints No 299 A and No 299 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking for the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 158]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the Code of Criminal Procedure. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the law on the principles of legal cooperation in criminal matters between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which the criminal law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice of Taiwan applies. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 301 A. We move to vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking for the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 159]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the Principles of Legal Cooperation in Criminal Matters between Rzeczpospolita Polska and the territory to which criminal law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice of Taiwan applies. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the scope of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up in Istanbul on 11 May 2011. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request an amendment; Senate printing No 300 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on an amendment aimed at calculating reservations in the correct order and a precise indication of the provisions on the basis of which the reservations have been submitted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking for the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 98 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 160]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking for the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted 99 for, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 161]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the scope of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up in Istanbul on 11 May 2011. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print 185 S-revised. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law presented by the committees on amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 162]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Court of State. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 224 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Robert Mamytkow to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law on amending the Law on the Court of State presented by the committees and on the draft resolution on the submission of this bill to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 163]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Law on the Court of State and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the High Senate has authorized Senator Robert Mamytkow to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law on hunting. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 214 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u8	Mr Marshal, three amendments were considered at the committee meeting. One of them, Amendment 2, aimed to eliminate the repetition of a particular refund, i.e. it is editorial, and the other 2 concerned the determination of the conceptual scope of the returns We have made decisions, we have not eliminated doubts, the recommendations are in the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u9	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicant still want to speak? During the second reading, proposals of a legislative nature were tabled by Senators Pupa and Szejnfeld. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, amendments will be voted in the order of the draft in print No 214 X, followed by the adoption of the draft No 214 S, in full, by amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We are voting on the amendments. Amendment 1 will rule out voting on Amendment 3. Amendment 1 seeks to harmonise the terminology used by the amended provision with regard to the expression "agricultural crops'. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 3 for, 94 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 164]] Amendment 2 removes unnecessary expression. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 54 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 165]] Amendment 3 seeks to harmonise the terminology used by the amended provision with regard to the expression "farming'. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 98 for, 0 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 166]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the High Senate authorize Senator Adam Szejnfeld to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 167]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on hunting and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Adam Szejnfeld to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Regional Government and the Act on the Local Government of the voivodship. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 186 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! At a joint meeting with the local government committee on 12 January, the Legislative Commission adopted block 5 of the amendments tabled by Senator Joanna Sekula to ensure the financial functioning of youth councils. The joint committees recommend that these 5 amendments be adopted. They should be adopted together so that they can meet their functional purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u11	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicant want to speak again? Let me remind you that proposals of a legislative nature in second reading have been made by Senator Sekuła, Poor and Mateck. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? I don't see any calls. We therefore proceed to the vote. The first vote will be taken on the amendments tabled in print No 186 X and then on the adoption of the project No 186 S in full, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 should be voted on together. They aim to extend the scope of the project to the amendment of the Municipal Government Act, the substantive modification of the project . including the conclusion that the authority constituting the local authority provides the means to carry out the tasks of the relevant youth council. and the establishment of rules on the term of office of youth councils set up before the date of entry into force of the proposed law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 168]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Joanna Sekula to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 169]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Municipal Government Act and some other laws and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Joanna Sekula to represent the High Senate in further work on this project. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Social Assistance Act. After the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the current Senate meeting. It is in print No 223 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Majer, to present an additional report to the committee. Senator Majer is remote, but I don't know if he'll be connected. [[Voice from the room: It has to turn on the microphone.]] But I don't see him. Is it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the joint committees that took place yesterday. The High Commissions recommend that the Senate adopt the amendment and adopt a draft resolution on the adoption of the Law on the Change of Social Assistance in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u13	Thank you very much. Do you still want to speak as senator? I don't think so. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur and at the same time to the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment presented in print No 223 X and then on the adoption of the draft No 223 S, in full, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on this amendment. It aims to extend the scope of the regulation concerning the municipality responsible for signing the agreement for the running of the family help home. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 170]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety, with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted and the draft resolution on the submission of the bill to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Richard Majer to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 171]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Social Assistance Act and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Richard Majer to represent the High Senate in further work on this project. We are returning to agenda item 16: second reading of the motion for a resolution on strengthening cooperation with the United States. Following the second reading of the motion for a resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the current Senate meeting. It is available in print No 309 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Marcin Bosacki, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u14	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Yesterday, 12 January, the joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union discussed the motion to reject the motion for a resolution and one proposal to amend the motion for a resolution. Both proposals have been dealt with negatively by a majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u15	Thank you very much, senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Let me remind you that proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled by Senators Czerwiński, Jackowski and Szwed. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the motion for a resolution, and in the case of rejection of the proposal for the amendment tabled in print No 309 X, followed by the adoption of the draft No 309 S, in full, as amended by the amendment adopted. We are voting on the motion of Senators Jerzy Czerwinski and Alexander Swede to reject the motion for a resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 99 senators voted, 47 for, 51 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 172]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the motion for a resolution, we proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 48 for, 50 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 173]] We are voting on the motion for a resolution in its entirety... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: This bill was overruled...]] [[Voice from the room: Against.]] [[Voice from the room: Za.]] In the face of rejection... I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry... Mr. Administrator taught me, but the point was the same. In the face of the rejection of the amendment, we are voting on the draft resolution tabled by the committees in print No 309 S. We are voting on the whole resolution. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 51 votes for, 48 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 174]] [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Well, with this disgrace in terms of supporting the United States, I'd be careful. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And with regard to the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on strengthening cooperation with the United States. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: second reading of the draft resolution at the end of the St. John Paul's Year II. I would like to remind you that yesterday the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform draft resolution in print No 285 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution presented by the committees at the end of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of St. John Paul II. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 77 votes against, 8 against and 10 abstentions. [[Voting No 175]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution at the end of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of St. John Paul II. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u16	I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 20th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Please draw up a list of senators willing to make statements. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? You're welcome, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Your...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask the senators to remain calm or, if you do not wish, not to disturb the senators in making statements and leaving the Chamber. This remark also applies to the staff of the Senate Chancellery, which I would ask not to interfere with the Senator's speech. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin. Dear Prime Minister, Well, Poland is a country in which tourist hotels and gestors operate not only in its mountain area. By the sea, in this whole belt from Świnoujście via Kołobrzeg, Darłowo, Ustka, Leba, Władysławowo to Krynica Morska there are also tourist gestors, hotelers and self-governments, who suffered from these decisions during the introduction of the restrictions on the coronavirus. I therefore kindly ask the Prime Minister to decide on support for the tourism industry and for the local authorities of the tourist communities located by the sea, but also on the lakes, including the Szczecinecki Lake District. I would like to ask you to take a decision on the support of these municipalities and tourist gestors, hotelers, restaurants, companies operating in this area. The hotels work all year round by the sea and on the skiers. The Christmas and New Year's period, the spring break period is the time when these companies generated additional revenues. Reducing business opportunities means that many of these companies are now on the verge of bankruptcy. I kindly ask that the amount which is allocated to support mountain communities, PLN 1 billion, which the Prime Minister spoke about, be divided fairly, evenly between entities operating in all areas of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u18	Thank you very much, Senator. Please make a statement to Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am addressing my statement today to the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. As a senator representing voters from the southern part of Wielkopolska, I ask the Prime Minister to give a precise explanation of the criteria behind the allocation of funds under the Government Local Investment Fund. Since the announcement by the government of the list of beneficiaries of the fund, there has been more and more controversy around it, especially in the largest cities of my constituency, such as Ostrów Wielkopolski, Krotoszyn, Ostrzeszów, which, despite numerous applications, received no support from any of the planned investments. The same applies in the case of applications from the Ostrzeszów and Krotoszyński districts. It is worth noting that the vast majority are infrastructure investments aimed at improving the quality of life of a large group of residents and affecting the functioning of the entire city or district. This refers in particular to road infrastructure, renewable energy sources, waste water treatment plants, retention tanks or widely understood ecological projects. All these projects were additionally provided with part-financing from the own funds of the city or district, so they did not require a 100% grant, but merely to complement the budget with the missing amounts. This is all the more surprising because other municipalities have often received grants that fully cover the costs of the planned investments. This situation gives rise to the suspicion among local authorities that the allocation of funds took place according to a political rather than a substantive key. The money, as some local activists indicate, received mainly those cities and municipalities in which the governing party obtained the best electoral result. Failure to provide clear criteria for division will help to consolidate a belief that clearly distorts the idea of self-government and the fair distribution of shared goods. In view of the growing sense of injustice and unfair treatment among local authorities, I call for the immediate and official presentation of detailed criteria for the allocation of grants under the Government's Local Investment Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u20	Thank you very much, Senator. Please make a statement to Senator Wojciech Necessary. [[And Senator Malecka-Libera?]] I'm so sorry. First Senator Beat Małecka-Libera. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr Adam Niedzielski, and also to Minister Michał Dworczyk, who is responsible for the implementation of the vaccination programme. Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of the national vaccination programme is not only about logistics, distribution or the organisation of vaccination points, but above all about ensuring the health safety of the population. Education and information to citizens about subsequent decisions taken by researchers and doctors is a very important element which also helps those who want to inoculate to make decisions. At present, the public is asking about the dates of possible vaccinations, about accessibility issues, and about possible vaccination reactions or late complications. Reliable, supported by scientific knowledge, data are very important at the moment. Without this knowledge, we cannot make good decisions, and this knowledge should be provided by doctors, experts with a lot of experience and authority. The vaccination plan, as we know, is constantly changing. We do not always know why such decisions are made, not other decisions, and who advises on specific issues. In order to build public confidence, a transparent dialogue should be conducted, based on medical knowledge. Following the implementation of the vaccination programme, numerous conferences, we see only politicians. There is absolutely no presence and expression of those who advise on medical matters, and if they are, they are completely invisible. Now that the interest of citizens in the process of implantation is increasing, a person such as an expert, a doctor with epidemiological knowledge should meet with Poles every day and inform about every decision, arguing it with medical knowledge. The fight against the epidemic is primarily medical knowledge, not statistics or just economics. I hope that all logistics is also based on medical knowledge and subject to doctors' decisions. I look forward to hearing from the Minister who is the medical authority responsible for the health safety of citizens and I should say this once again. Stand by the Minister to communicate with the public. I hope that there is also scientific, research work on the mutation of Coronavirus and its spread in Poland. I also hope that the leading role is played by the National Institute of Public Health, which is also very lacking in the voice. We need responsibility, authorities, doctors who lead and inform the public, thus ensuring health safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u22	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The first statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr. Adam Niedzielski. Dear Minister, In connection with the Order of the Minister of Health of 23 December 2020 on the establishment of a team for the preparation of legislative arrangements for the restructuring of medicinal products carrying out medical activities such as hospital benefits, I ask the honourable Minister with the following questions. Is the team planning to cooperate with representatives of local government units, representatives of health unions, representatives of medical professions and representatives of social organisations of patients? What's the reason for the band? What is the need for his appointment, and what are the reasons for the Minister's creation? What is assumed as the final effect of the team's work? In particular, what is meant by ownership transformations? Is the restructuring of hospitals intended in the Ministry of Health to increase the number or reduce the number of hospital beds in particular areas of hospital care? Is the restructuring of hospitals intended to lead to an increase in the Ministry of Health or to a reduction in the amount of financial expenditure for the restructuring facilities? Will the work of the team be aimed at realising the evaluation of health services provided in the hospital sector? I kindly ask you to answer these questions. The second statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, Together with local authorities of Częstochowa land and Kłobucki district, we wish to express our concern about the distribution of funds under the second tranche of the Government Fund for Local Investments. As a result of the recent distribution of PLN 4 billion 350 million, many local government units will receive no money and others will benefit only from symbolic resources. However, there are municipalities and districts which benefit from relatively large support. I would therefore like to ask the following questions. First: what criteria have been taken into account in the assessment of applications submitted? Is there a project evaluation system and any score? Two: what made the difference between the amounts allocated within one sub-region? Third: why are there municipalities and districts that have not received any funds? Fourth: how do such decisions relate to the principles of partnership and solidarity, so important in the fight against the pandemic, and to the idea of sustainable support for local self-government units, which should be implemented by the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund? I kindly ask you to answer these questions. [[Thank you very much, Senator...]] And a third. [[Oh, I'm so sorry.]] Excuse me, I've got a three-quarter protocol. Statement addressed to the Minister of Climate and Environment, Mr Michael Kurtyki. Dear Minister, On behalf of myself, the Częstochowa self-government and the inhabitants of Częstochowa, I kindly ask that funds be granted for the disposal and disposal of waste abandoned in the old warehouse hall located on the perpetual site of the State Treasury in the central and densely populated part of Częstochowa, at 28 Filomatów Street. Laboratory studies show that waste is primarily hazardous and poses a real fire risk, which may result in loss of health or life in the case of local residents and persons living or working in nearby plants, institutions, among others. in the First Tax Office in Częstochowa. The risk of damage to the property of surrounding buildings and road infrastructure, among others, cannot be overlooked. The damage may be located near the viaduct above the railway tracks. In addition, the dump site is located above the main groundwater reservoir No 326 used for the production of water intended for human consumption. The existence of a landfill of these hazardous waste can also lead to the displacement of several thousand inhabitants of Częstochowa and evacuation of the Municipal Hospital of the Complex from the location at 12 Mickiewicz Street, and during the pilgrimage season it may have difficult to predict consequences. The amount which would allow the disposal and disposal of harmful waste has been estimated at about PLN 25 million. Dear Minister, I ask that funds be granted for the disposal and disposal of hazardous waste, and thus for the inhabitants of Częstochowa to live in a clean and uncontaminated environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u24	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is addressed to the Foreign Minister, Mr. Zbigniew Rau. Dear Minister, A group of senators from the Parliamentary Club Legal and Justice submitted a draft resolution in the Senate on the 80th anniversary of the legal liquidation of the Polish minority organization in the Third Reich. I have the honour to represent them in this project. It was submitted almost a year ago, i.e. On February 25, 2020, and for a year, work is still ongoing, and in fact it does not continue, because they are blocked by the majority in the Senate by the clubs of the Civic Coalition, the PSL and the Left, and personally by the Marshal of the Senate, Mr. Thomas Grodzki, which is already appalling in itself. The Senate majority, without having the courage to take a clear stand for or against the content of the draft resolution, keys and stalls on it. Of course, I am not complaining here, I am aware of parliamentary realities, I am only bringing the facts closer. Dear Minister, during his long work on the draft resolution of the Senate Marshals in order to discredit it, he made publicly statements concerning Polish and Polish foreign policy which, in my opinion, are false, incompatible with the facts. Just so we are clear: I do not ask the Minister to assess whether the following quotations are explicit lies resulting from wrong will or only from the cost-effective management of the truth, which is the result of ignorance or confusion. My goal is to obtain from the Minister confirmation or denial of the compatibility of these statements with the facts. And I ask you this because you are responsible for the foreign policy of the state, including the care of Polonia. You are the one who has the greatest knowledge of this subject and, above all, you can sow the real facts from confabulating some, even tall, but incompetent officials. So specifically. : Is the truth... And here I quote fragments of Marshal Tomasz Grodzki's response to my statement. First quote. It is unfounded to indicate the Association of Poles in Germany as the only accepted association of Poles in Germany. There is no reason to believe that this is one approved relationship. By what organ? Quote two. Polonia entities, representatives of Polish associations operating for many years in Germany and representatives of Polish organizations in Germany, first of all, question the unanimity of Polish organizations in terms of restoring the status of a national minority, question political claims for damages and representativeness of the Polish Union in Germany. The third quote: The organisations mentioned indicate that claims for damages may result in a differentiation of the situation of individual Polish organisations. Quote four: The issue of the liquidation of the Polish minority organization in the Third Reich, as a complex and complex issue, should be the subject of research by a Polish-German commission composed of lawyers and historians. And the fifth, perhaps the most appalling, quote: "You cannot push political solutions that could contribute to the deterioration of the daily relations between Poles and Poles at the place of their current residence." Here I put a question directly from me, i.e. those which do not directly relate to previous statements. How can the resolution on the nature of Poland's history worsen Polish-German relations, in particular the position of Poles and Poles in Germany? Could a clear confirmation of historical truth in the text of this resolution be any threat to the treatment of Poles in Germany? I also ask you to explain how they are being implemented today. By the German State, of course. The rights and obligations vis-à-vis the Polish minority contained in the Treaty between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Republic of Germany with good neighbourhood and friendly cooperation in 1991. I ask you to compare this with the treatment of the German minority by us in terms of its rights and freedoms, its size, the amount of funds received, etc. Did the German side ever make the current treatment of Poles in Germany dependent on the assessment of the so-called. Göring's decree and its legal effects? In particular, have we been threatened, in other words, by our fellow countrymen in Germany Or was it really done by taking away German funds to nurture Polish tradition, culture and language? The Federal Republic of Germany does not recognise the status of Poles living for generations in Germany as a national minority, even in the said Treaty. What arguments, or pretexts, is he using here or blocking it? Would the Senate's adoption of a resolution in Senate print No. 81 S help in obtaining such status? Did the German side in the past inspire the appointment of Polish organizations to play among themselves later? The fragmentation, of course, favours difficulties in integrating these organisations and the establishment of a uniform representation of the German Polonia. What's this representation like right now? Dear Minister, last quote From the transcript of the Senate meeting on 16 December 2020, this is the statement by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki addressed to me. I quote: "I am surprised that you are referring to an organization headed by a person listed in the IPN file as the secretary of the PZPR Regional Committee in Legnica or an employee, some first secretary of the PZPR factory cell. I understand he's one of those good communists. Unlike those you consider to be bad communists. I would like to inform you that Marshal Grodzki was referring to the Polish Union in Germany and the person at its head in the draft resolution. Did the marshal describe this person correctly, or did he deliberately insult her without any other arguments? Finally... According to the information given by the vice-president of the Polish Union in Germany, Ms Anna Wawrzyszko, the Polish Union in Germany is the only organization that was re-entered from office after the war into the court register. It's the only organization that owned the estate before World War II. Compare or even value the Association of Poles in Germany In relation to some alleged organization, your marshal is inappropriate. We read further that the Polish Union in Germany is now a roofing organization, it belongs to the agreement of Polish organizations in Germany, which co-create. Therefore, the facts quoted by your marshal concerning alleged organisations which are not interested in the content of the resolution are false. There are no Polish organisations in Germany, which, in view of the memory of the expropriation of Polonia in Germany, the German State would claim to receive funding. Dear Minister, I would ask for a reliable and timely response so that we can make this resolution an anniversary. Or on the next anniversary of the liquidation of the Polish Union in Germany so-called. by the decree of Göring, take a clear position, in line with the Polish state's reason, with the interests of Polish and Polish organizations, in particular the Polish Union in Germany. We want our countrymen to feel support from our government, but also from the Senate of the Republic of Poland. With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u26	Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Wczyła in order to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk. Dear Minister, On 20 December 2020, Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Marek Grybarczyk said: "We have a strong appeal to Elbląg, but also to the Marshal of Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship, to join the process of modernising the port of Elbląg, to start large investments in preparing it for the reception of much larger ships and the search for investors. We hope this process is already underway. For our part, we carry out everything we assumed. Minister, is this statement to be understood as a persistent continuation in the position that the investment in the construction of the canal by measure will not be brought to the port of Elbląg transhipment quay? For obvious reasons this is done by this investment, which costs about PLN 2 billion, which is not economically justified, because vessels with a draught of up to 4 m will not be able to be unloaded in the Elbląskie port, the only one to be reached by the canal. At the same time, this is in clear contradiction with Article. 23 Law on ports and marinas, which states that in ports and marinas referred to in paragraph 2. 1, the construction, modernisation and maintenance of infrastructure providing access to ports and seaports shall be financed by the State budget of the amount set out in the Budget Act. The paragraph to which the article refers concerns municipal ports. It is clear from this that the government is obliged to modernise the state budget and maintain the infrastructure providing access to the port, owned by the local government as well. These conditions are met by the seaport in Elbląg. So will the government perform the statutory obligation to ensure that the port of Elbląg is accessible to individuals with parameters for which the channel is built by measure? I would like to remind you that this infrastructure mainly includes a 5 m deep watercourse up to the port quay and a 180 m long turntable without which access to the port is fiction. At the same time, I inform you that Elbląg's bounty hunters do not wait with their hands to build a canal. Elbląg invested in areas and harbours about 70 million PLN, creating among others. infrastructure that can be used only after the transport has been developed. The city plans further investments that it will undertake when the port is adapted to channel parameters and large vessels will be able to influence here. Dear Minister, I also remind you that so far I have not received an answer to the question of changing the value, scope and schedule of building the channel. According to the information provided on the government websites, the scope of the work included the task of deepening the entry into the port of Elbląg. Due to this task, the completion of the investment was extended until the end of the first quarter of 2023. This is good information, but I ask for more information on what scope of work is foreseen in this section. Will the work also cover the waters inside the port, and if so, what will be the scale of these tasks? To which point will availability be ensured for the units that are affected by the channel by measure? Will the work involve the execution of a turntable for ships? As a result, will port quays be available for ships with the parameters for which I measure the channel? What is the estimated cost of this project? Will the execution of this task mean that the main watercourse in the port of Elbląg and at the same time the stretch of the river with the same name, which is part of the internal marine waters, will be adapted to the channel parameters by measuring? Please answer these questions in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-13-senat-20-3.u28	Thank you very much, Senator. I don't see any more senators who would like to make a statement. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 20th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 20th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 12 minutes 08]]
