ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that today we will begin our deliberations by considering item 19. Law on the amendment of the Law. Code of Civil Procedure and certain other laws. Point 18, i.e. The law on amending the Law of the Criminal Code and certain other laws will be considered at 11.30 a.m. I would like to remind you that at 5 p.m. we will proceed with the examination of the point: consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman. The vote on this issue will be held today immediately after consideration of this point. Dear Senators, voting block including, among others: the laws that have already been considered and which we will consider today will be carried out after consideration of all points. According to my information collected from individual clubs, if the time is favourable, there is a possibility that these votes will be held tonight. If I do not hear a clear objection in this matter And the conversation shows that this is rather a desirable term That's what's gonna happen. But that, of course, depends on the pace at which we will sit. I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check that all of you have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. On the other hand, the States taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have problems, of course, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now traditionally proceed with a vote aimed solely and solely at establishing a list of senators attending the meeting. I therefore ask you to give any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. I ask the technical staff to support the President. 76 senators voted. [[Voting No 5]] And so many are attending the meeting right now. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 384 and the report of the committee In print No 384 A. [[Mr. Marshal, there's a request from room 217. The voting device didn't work there.]] I see. Let me remind you that this vote was intended only to determine the number of people present, but if you are suggesting to repeat it, we will repeat it. However, let me remind you that pragmatism shows that this number is changing 30 seconds after the vote, because the senators are still arriving, coming, etc. And since we have a quorum with a large surplus... If Room 217 were to accept this, then the second form of confirmation of presence is of course the signature on the list and those who are in the Senate building can do so, and this is important for subsequent proceedings in the absence. If you don't mind, I'm not going to repeat this vote because some of my colleagues, and it's all about the sides of the political scene, have gone out and I wouldn't want to force them to go back to the gym. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to present a report to the committee. And from the moment that the senator reaches the speaker, I will welcome the representative of the Minister of Justice, Secretary of State Sebastian Kaleta. Good morning, Minister. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report to the Joint Committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, on the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 20 April 2021. First of all, I would like to point out that there was a lobbyist in our meeting who had tabled some amendments in writing. These amendments have not been taken into account in the work of the committee. The Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws concerns amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure for the introduction of the sale of real estate by electronic auction and related provisions, as well as changes related to the transfer of the entry into force of the solutions concerning the simple public and electronic public limited liability company KRS. Act in Art. 4 contains changes relevant to legal proceedings related to the deep revision of the March 2020 Law on specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and crisis situations. One of the most important changes that are taking place here... one second, I'm so sorry, I was a little surprised by the change of order... First of all, it should be pointed out that the Act under review amends a very large number of provisions and there are certain doubts about the existence of thematic links between them. In accordance with paragraph 92. 1 of the 2002 Regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers on the principles of legislative technique, one amending act covers only one law. A in accordance with paragraph 92. 2 that Regulation derogate from the rule set out in paragraph 2. 1 is only acceptable if there are undoubted thematic links between the amended laws or the intention of the legislator is necessary at the same time to amend several laws. The principle cited is undoubtedly right, since the combination of many unrelated amendments to the existing rules in one law not only makes it much harder to follow changes and adapt to changes in the law, but also makes it necessary to debate together and vote on the whole project. It is not, it is true, a common principle, but it cannot be overlooked that the project came from an authority which adopted and should apply the principles of legislative technology, namely the Council of Ministers. During the committee's work, a number of amendments presented both our Legislative Office, as well as representatives of local governments of legal advisers and lawyers, i.e. those to whom these regulations will apply and for whom they will have the greatest consequences. During the course of the work, many of these amendments were voted in favour. A very serious discussion took place on the proposed amendment concerning the delivery of correspondence by electronic acknowledgement of receipt. This amendment meant that the letter should be deemed to have been delivered after 21 days, not as it is now after 14. It is quite revolutionary for many lawyers and lawyers, especially the older generation, the change proposed in this law. What we meant was that the recipients of this standard should have a little more time to react, because the consequences of non-response, well, of course are very far-reaching, not only for the attorneys, but above all for their clients. The amendment was rejected and 13 to 13 votes were divided. And I'll be putting it together later, in a minute. And also... 'Cause I know you're about to make a move on this bill and you're gonna have a minister's reaction to the amendments. So I will also ask you very much to characterize the government's position with regard to this proposal for an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. There are no volunteers in room 217 either. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The submission is related to improving the work of courts and executions in times of pandemic. In the spring of last year, we suddenly had to respond to the fact that the courts could not work in the current mode. However, in the following weeks we have already prepared with greater reflection numerous solutions that will allow courts to function smoothly, smoothly regardless of whether there are further waves of pandemics, more lockdowns or more, in general, restrictions on the functioning of courts. The first element of this amendment is the introduction of an electronic real estate auction tool. This is a very important tool that will improve the effectiveness of executions in such a way that where the bailiffs will bid property, the amounts will simply be higher, because it will be easier to participate in the bidding, they will be more transparent, will remove doubts that arise e.g. in terms of whether a specific bidding has actually been carried out properly. This will strengthen both creditors who expect funds to pay back as well as debtors who will be able to satisfy most of the enforcement claims from one particular property. The second element of the functioning of the courts is the question of the regulation of proceedings held remotely. Here, the legislator has a tool for enabling, procedurally, the conduct of these activities in such a way. At the same time, the Minister of Justice provides technologically the courts. Nevertheless, here, even though the possibilities already exist... Well, there's always a court at the end that works, which carries out the actions. Here, the efficiency of the proceedings depends to a large extent on the judges themselves, the Presidents of the courts. The statistics held by the Ministry show that some courts are more likely to benefit from this possibility, others less frequently. And we know very well that when it comes to equipment, all these technological issues, all the courts are equally treated and have equal opportunities. However, this law introduces a framework for the organisation of remote hearings, a certain cascadedom, so that I can define it in the execution of procedural actions by courts in specific circumstances related to the epidemic. So, to sum up, this bill will soon allow the courts to catch up, which resulted from the introduction of further lockdowns. Accelerate service for agents and generally speed up the circulation of information between the parties and courts will allow proceedings to be conducted more quickly, so that, despite the difficulties that have encountered us, one of the constitutional values, namely the right to court, will be preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I see you want to ask Senator Pociej a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u6	Minister, the speech of the presidents of the barrister's government and the solicitor's solicitor's request that the date of service be 21 days rather than 14. This is really a revolutionary change. I repeat: there are not only young people in this profession, but there are also very experienced people who do not have this ease, who move worse in this digitalized world. Couldn't you consider, maybe for a little while, of course, late this can be changed, but at least initially, these 21 days? I'm just saying I'm gonna make an amendment like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u7	Mr. Senator, Mr. Counselor, thank you kindly for this question. It is indeed an emanation of the views of the legal authorities, i.e. professional representatives, who will apply these laws directly and will apply them to them. I would like to stress that in stages from consultation through work in the Sejm with great attention We listened to the voice of the environment and, for this reason, these provisions and technological backgrounds of their application related precisely to the service were subject to adjustments in order to ensure the stability of the implementation of the assumption contained in this law, namely the efficient implementation of the exchange of information and service in the course of proceedings between the court and professional agents. I understand that there is a concern about whether all professional representatives will be able to properly, efficiently... will be able to adapt to this de facto new work system, but the 14-day deadline, due to other deadlines that are related, for example. with traditional service, we in the Ministry consider it appropriate and fulfilling the purpose of this law, i.e. speeding up communication between courts and agents. Currently, the situation is that there is a traditional service, there is an attempt to serve to the firm and if it is not received, it is an aviso, and after 7 days another, so there are also 14 days. It's just that there's still time here, next to 14 days, for the court to post, from the law firm back to the post office, and then from the post office to the court. We shorten it, there's a court, a proxy and an IT system to receive this information. And these will be orders, orders, judgments, which in each subsequent circulation will significantly speed up the procedure itself. We met the expectations of the environment, abandoning the form of e-mail for service in the information portal system. In addition, these 14 days ensure that, regardless of the circumstances, this deadline does not start to run during this period, which is also very important for the stability of the work of agents who also have the right to leave. And that is also the realization of this legitimate expectation. Thus, in our view, this solution, which is currently in the law, is an expression of a compromise with the environment that the Ministry was ready to adopt and which was ready to secure concrete technological solutions so that it could function smoothly. I know that both local authorities are already working on training for lawyers, legal counsels. I hope that when the bill comes into force, professional representatives will be prepared. I would also like to point out that the vast majority of professional representatives benefit from various types of support, including administrative support, in various cases. So I hope you're here too... This argument argues that these 14 days are sufficient time to consider that the document was served in the system.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u8	Thank you very much. Second order 'Cause we're going one at a time, Mr. Senator. 'You've come forward, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will repeat the question from the committee meeting, but I would ask for a more detailed answer. You have said, Minister, that there will be only benefits here, especially for the debtor, but also for other parties. Well, it's electronic executions, real estate. Here's the question. I remember how in 2010 you weren't responsible for it. An electronic reprimand procedure was introduced and the court in Lublin... Then we were convinced that it would be good that it would speed up, that it would be, I would call it, wonderfully and quickly. They're all superlatives. But when it came down to it, simple people met with abuse of this mode. Unfortunately, sometimes they found out that they had, let's say in quotes, a bailiff on their necks, because they just didn't notice something, ignored something. Maybe someone sent it to the wrong address. Don't you see any danger to the debtor here? Because he's the weakest side here. A creditor is often an institution, a bank, and the debtor is only a debtor. Will this procedure, electronic execution, not cause additional risks that are not immediately visible?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u10	Thank you, Senator. This is a very important question. Thank you for these, because it is worth solving any doubts, especially in sensitive cases such as executions. Maybe I'll start with that EPU you asked about. Indeed, the very idea of this procedure is noble, because it enables a more efficient, more efficient justice system. However, a few years after the introduction of this, there were situations that raised doubts about the sense of justice and whether the efficiency of conduct could at certain times obscure the essence of justice, that is, the correct judgment and protection of the party to the proceedings. The problems in this area have been addressed in recent years. Well, this system was primarily used to mass-enforce old, overdue claims from banks or telecom operators. Various small unpaid debts from several years ago were tried to enforce in this way, using the fact that the debtor was not always capable of finding out that he could raise a limitation charge. Well, at this point in time, the value of such a claim was much lower than interest, and it actually raised serious doubts. I would like to stress that, at the initiative of the Ministry of Justice, the way in which the limitation charge was raised has been changed during the previous term of office. People who had a feeling a few years ago that this system was wrongly used, that it was actually used against them, today such doubts can no longer have, and that is because the legislator has protected them from such situations. But I'm moving on to electronic bidding. It is very important to know at what stage this procedure comes into play. She does not replace the traditional execution by the bailiff, the execution by the fact that the bailiff takes over the property in the course of enforcement proceedings. This is a tool that allows a bailiff who has already occupied a specific property... She's meant for auction. Well, the debtor just knows that this property has been taken and that the bailiff wants to sell it to satisfy the creditors' claims. This tool is for something else. When the real estate occupation procedure has already been carried out, the bailiff can arrange the bidding itself in electronic form. It is about not being the same as before when the bidding is organized and some people know about it and others do not know about it. Well, there's an ad somewhere, but not everyone who's interested will be able to find out that he can come to this bidding and bid. And this naturally affects the possibility of creating a higher price for such property during the bidding process. And the highest price during the auction depends on both the creditor and the debtor. So this solution, i.e. the introduction of this tool at this final stage of execution, i.e. the cashing of real estate, is the source of this proposal, i.e. that when the property is already occupied and the bailiff will surely sell it when the entire seizure procedure is carried out, it will result in a maximum increase in the selling price, which is beneficial for all those concerned in the enforcement procedure. I hope that dispels the senator's doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. Again, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u12	Thank you very much. I would like to refer to Senator Czerwiński's question in this context, that at that time we had a meaning: the citizens of the problems that Senator Czerwiński was talking about, because the change was actually revolutionary, even though the vacathio legis was, as I recall, quite long, was probably six months. Yesterday we tried here, in the Senate, also quite a revolutionary project of the Ministry, concerning amendments to the Act on the National Debt Register and in some other laws, a total of 6 laws, and yesterday, Minister, the Ministry accepted our requests, agreed to depart from the date of entry into force of a certain date of July 1, and to enter into force in December. I know that a certain component of this agreement was that the co-operator, who had some task to carry out there, informed the Ministry that he was going to be late, but there was also the voice of all interested in it, and he was so begging that these changes, although good, would not come in so quickly, because people had to be trained, they had to be prepared for it. I have heard that you are inclined not to do this revolution in 14 days, only in 30 days, but, Minister, it still means very little time. Why can't it be later? I say in advance that I will make an amendment to extend the vacathio legis here. Well, it's really serious stuff. Please note that the 2 very big changes of.ba, 3, no.. No, 2 changes that affect such a wide spectrum of different areas, because here too is very complex, good, but very complex... [[Mr. Senator, one minute...]] I'm sorry. Yeah, I'm sorry. Of course, I had a chat. Why can't you give all those who are affected more time? I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, I'm completely overreacting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u13	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u14	Mr. Senator, it is indeed the case that in the case of this first law, which the Senate will probably be talking about today, at a later stage, there was a discussion about giving a few more months to all those concerned, including the ministry and all the services that will serve this system, for its full preparation, for ensuring reliability, as well as for training. This system will cover not only 2 pages, but also a lot of public institutions. It will actually be a revolutionary tool when it comes to creating systems containing information about debtors. In fact, a lot of entities have reported to wait... As the Ministry, we understand that perhaps in this situation it is worth taking advantage of this suggestion. Some solutions were ready within the time limit planned by the legislator, but the voices indicating the need to wait for, I would say, the completeness of all solutions relating to stakeholders who will be in this system deserve to be taken into account. Mr. Senator, the Senate will decide how you make this amendment. By the time the Sejm examines her for a few more days... We at the Ministry will also have time to carefully check the preparation status. However, I would like to assure you that the system is ready for this, he is already waiting for this functionality to be provided by the agents. I would also like to point out that, however, we are talking about a narrower group of entities which will benefit directly from this system and a slightly different functionality of the transmission of information. This is in fact less complicated than the creation of a new system and the introduction of data there, the operation of these data by different entities. Senator, while respecting this view, I confirm that before the session of the Sejm, if the Senate accepted such an amendment, the Ministry will refer to how it evaluates its readiness to implement this law in 14 and 30 days. I would like to point out that there are some difficulties in the work of courts through the pandemic. The role of the Ministry is to propose legal instruments, and the role of the legislator is to provide them so that these procedures can accelerate rather than release due to pandemics. So that I ask you to understand the ministry's approach and to give priority to ensuring the smooth work of the courts at the time at which we are all presently.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Czerwiński also signed up for the question, but I also signed up as a senator. The question is a bit in the context of previous statements by fellow senators on both sides. Digitisation, digitisation of our lives is an inevitable process and probably in a few years, how wisely we will use the funds of the Fund for Reconstruction and Increasing Immunity, then we will be at a completely different level. I have more than just a question for the Minister. I always have this reflection, as I hear about various digital projects. In fact, they should be followed by a law that says that every citizen must have a computer or a mobile phone so that they can establish digital communication. We both know that there are people in Poland who do not have access to the computer and do not have a mobile phone, while everyone is, so to speak, within the reach of Polish Post. We're always trying to get behind these little ones. As to the questions of my esteemed predecessors, I have a question. I will, of course, support Senator Pociej's request, but I have a question for you to consider introducing a transitional period. Is this a forgotten subject and we can only talk about extending the vacathio legis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u16	Mr. Marshal, it seems to me that in this situation, as the instrumentarium is ready, one can speak of extending the vacathio legis. I share the opinion of the marshal that not everyone uses electronic devices. Moreover, I believe that no one can be forced as an individual to use electronic tools in their lives, since there are traditional forms. However, since in some areas of administrative life, we have operators from whom more can be required, professional entities, the regulation in this law is addressed precisely to professional entities, i.e. professional representatives. For this reason, this obligation may apply to them. Other systems which the Ministry of Justice prepares or introduces are for each individual, optional, voluntary individuals, they can be used, but no one has such an obligation. However, imposing such obligations on professionals, in my opinion, is consistent, and in some cases even desirable, because it is a matter of speeding up certain processes. I have a strong opinion that, despite the difficulties, including those described by the senator, the difficulties of those who may not be using these tools are useful, these tools improve certain possibilities for smooth functioning and should be encouraged. We can encourage professional representatives in a form that goes further than any other person. While understanding these concerns, we are in the position that the uniformity of regulation will serve to improve its implementation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u17	Thank you very much. You're asking questions, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's going to be the last entry into this case, as if it's about possible threats that we don't see. I'll give you some kind of analogy. The municipality where I live, the town, sold the castle for gold. That was the trend back in the day. The investor didn't add anything to the castle, probably still in debt, some loans he probably took, whose collateral was mortgage, and the effect was against purpose. There was supposed to be a beautiful restaurant in the castle, and it's worse than it was. Here we have a qualitative change. Contrary to appearances, this is not just an execution. Suppose this is an apartment or home of an individual who has fallen into debt and trouble. So far it's been like this. Maybe you can get me out of a mistake. That they bought this house or apartment those who were interested in living, e.g. in this house, which means they used it. And right now, it's just going to be exposed. I'd call it. For the wide market and e.g. Someone from Lublin will buy a house in Wroclaw as a place of capital actually. Of course, you can, but what could be the further consequences of this, if you sum it up, and if that's what we're talking about. I'm just saying this so that the pluses don't blind us to any negative pluses, so that you can monitor how this tool works during this initial period, what it really serves us for.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u19	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u20	Indeed, the real estate market, especially housing, in recent months has had a lot of discussion as to whether the placement of capital in these premises serves the purposes for which these investments were to be carried out and whether housing needs were properly met. However, maybe I can give you a little more clarity about where this change is. Namely, when, as I said earlier, the property is already occupied for sale, today is announced the date of the auction, the bidding takes place, the interested people come... Not always many people know about this auction, because access to this information is not universal, that is, legally it is, but it is known that sometimes there are situations where, despite legal compliance, certain events do not have the character of universality. And in this case, this bidding will primarily take place at the creditor's request, provided that the creditor submits that he would like this form of auction to be used. Next, the bidding will be conducted for 7 days, which means it will be 7 days to conquer offers. When the bidding takes place on the spot, it happens very quickly. Here, in this process, it will last longer, which will generate the effect that I mentioned earlier. Information about the auction itself will also be posted on the websites, which means there will be a larger group of potentially interested parties, because it is easier if someone is interested in some properties from the auction, check the website daily and refresh it, than for example. go to court or some other place where there are bidding announcements. Once again, I would like to say that this solution is only related to increasing the attractiveness of the bidding itself. It is not related to the method of execution, to the seizure of real estate, to actions on the regularity of execution operations, it is related only and only to the way of obtaining specific funds from this auction. Of course, the example that you gave to the senator shows that this solution will allow people from other, often remotely located cities to buy in this mode, e.g. residential premises, and this can cause it to be treated as an investment by these people. But for a debtor or a creditor, this is secondary, because he can get more money. Of course, while respecting this topic of discussion in general about buying apartments, I think that because it is allowed, we cannot limit this process of execution, because if there is a developer, he builds new apartments, everyone can go to the website, submit an email offer to purchase such apartments, e.g. If someone lives in Szczecin, they can buy an apartment in Przemyśl. So that it is within the scope of this goal that it can achieve itself. This is therefore unrelated in my view. But I understand your concerns. The Ministry of Justice generally looks very closely at every case of dubious execution. And this tool will cause these doubts just to be less in some cases. E.g. If someone says today that the bailiff has set up a bid, a bidding order, that the specific tenderers were so chosen to be a form of auction, then according to this solution we propose, the risks associated with such allegations, whether they are legitimate or not, will disappear, because it will simply be public transparent, accessible to anyone who is interested in acquiring property. I therefore consider this solution to be correct. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u21	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have prepared a statement for the Senate's present sitting on bail proceedings... Excuse me... [[Disruption during the speech]] But tell me if the lobby... [[Mr. Senator, I can't hear you.]] Maybe after stopping the video transmission it'll be better. [[It's okay now. Yes, we can hear you. You're welcome.]] Again. I've prepared for today's Senate meeting a statement à about bail proceedings. Since, according to the Rules of Procedure, no statements can be made on the topics that have been discussed, I will use this point to say two things. Firstly, last year was an extremely dramatic year for many, many entities, which were the subject of various bailiff proceedings. The problem has been for many, many years, but in general, I would like to draw attention to two, I would even like to say pathology. The first is that, in the case of a number of bail-in proceedings, the costs are so high that they exceed the subject matter of any claim. And unfortunately, this process went deeper last year. The second thing, extremely important, is chronicity. It seems to me that the duration of such proceedings is enormously important for this final effect, i.e. the recovery of certain financial resources, as a result of the very high security costs of the bailiffs themselves. And one last thing. I believe that these tasks, which are included in the current amendment, are correctly formulated, i.e. The more efficient, the faster this procedure is, the more modern it will be, the greater the chance that bailiffs will be cheaper and, as a result, also more effective. In fact, I would like to ask that, as part of a possible next amendment, it be easier for citizens to complain about bail-outs in terms of mismanagement, very high costs and length of bail-in procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u23	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I very much regretted that in this debate, which affects and affects very many citizens, there really were 4 senators. Because the problem we're talking about today isn't just those professionals. Although they will be forced to use a tool that may be alien to them. But the consequence of this will be what we talked about here earlier, in fact the impact on the lives of many citizens represented by these professional representatives. As far as I'm concerned... I admit that the direction is right, however, because no one denies it. But I would like us to be able to find somewhere in this case the consensus that we reached yesterday with the Ministry of Justice. Because yesterday, the ministry listened to the voices of various administrations. So in some sense, the administration talked to itself. Of course, the administration is easier, because the minister or the president of some government will call the minister and say: old, well, we won't be able to, well, we won't train people. We are in exactly the same situation today, except that the interlocutors are representatives of 2 huge professional corporations, whose members will have to completely overturn their way of doing it every day. It's revolutionary. This is a very good action, but revolutionary. And that's why I'm making amendments in this spirit. They don't go as far as the corporations asked, because I understand and here I admit you're right. That's what these changes are for, to make things better and speed things up. However, I take the view that such changes should be preceded by a slightly longer perspective that will allow these people to get used to it, train it, and arm it with the right tools. I'm putting forward six amendments. The first two are tidy. And, as far as I know... But the Minister will be at the committee meeting and he will be able to comment on it. The first two are tidy. One relates to what I said earlier, in my report, that is, when the letter is deemed to have been delivered. After 21 days. Deleted in Article 4 pkt 4 pkt 4 pkt 4 pkt 4 pkt 4 pkt 4 pkt 4 pkt 4 pkt 4 pkt 4 pkt 4 pkt 4 pkt 4 pkt And I suggest that the Krakow trade fair is a vacathio legis, but it was two months. It gives even a little more time, because it is known that this bill will not come into force tomorrow, that she will go to the Sejm, the Sejm will take care of it, then the President must sign it. Well, it gives people a way to get used to it. And finally, there's really so many changes that have been, in very different laws, in different codes, that sometimes I'm scared to talk to professional attorneys, people who work in justice, even judges, prosecutors. Because they say it's just impossible to control it all in such a short time. Let's give these people who have a huge responsibility a little time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u25	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Benjamin Godyla, Wadi Tyszkiewicz presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Senator Alexander Pociej. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u26	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The amendments that you have tabled to the senator regarding the clarification of certain elements of the Ministry are indeed without reservation. However, with regard to these amendments concerning 21 days and vacathio legis, as regards these 21 days, we maintain a negative opinion, and with regard to vacathio legis, it will be a matter of decision of the Senate after this debate. The Ministry also has the possibility before the Sejm considers this to be a reflection and to consider whether the date, which is in the law, is the correct date. I'm not hiding that if... The bill says 14 days. The difference between 14 days and 2 months is significant from the perspective of the measures planned by the Ministry. If it were a month, it would probably be easier for us to make such a decision to recommend extending the vacathio legis for another two weeks. This is the Senate's decision, and here I would not like, in respect of the very interesting arguments of the senator, to prejudice that, as the Ministry, we will be in favour of this solution or the original one. Fortunately, even before the Sejm is held, there is time to examine whether everything is prepared enough to function efficiently within this time limit.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u27	Thank you. This is about Senator Pociej's amendments... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet: Yes.]] ...not Kwiatkowski? Because... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet: Mr. Senator Pociej.]] Thank you very much. Well, you'll still be able to consider and talk at the committee's meeting. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code. I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and is included in print No 222 and the committee's report In print No 222 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on the amendment of the law is inspired by the postulate contained in the individual petition submitted to the Senate. The petitioner proposed to amend the Civil Procedure Code Act. In the opinion of the petitioner, the identification of animals and objects belonging to the farmer holding which are not subject to enforcement should constitute statutory matter and not be included in the regulation. In fact, while working on this petition in the rule of law committee, in our exchange of views with the Ministry of Justice, and later in the work with the Committee on Agriculture in the Senate... If I remember correctly, all those taking part in the various deliberations, with the approval of the Ministry, unanimously said that we should change this, because this is not in line with a certain legislative order. It doesn't introduce any new elements, it's just to sort things out. It seems that the solution to this problem is quite simple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u29	Now we move on to the questions to the rapporteur's senator. Does anyone come forward with a question like that? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? You are Minister Kalet of the Ministry of Justice and Mrs Gembick of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Would any of you like to speak? Oh, Minister Kaleta's already on the stand. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet: Since the marshal calls...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Ministry of Justice recognises that the regulation of the Senate regulation would like to raise it to the statutory level. Here was cooperation during the work carried out on the Senate forum. In general, the assumption of this initiative, such that it is worth raising these provisions to the statutory rank, is interesting. It's hard to argue here. Of course, by taking advantage of the possibility that there is an interest in strengthening the protection in enforcement proceedings against farmers, raising this to the statutory level, I would like to say that the Ministry of Justice with the Ministry of Agriculture is carefully analysing these issues and notes some other elements that could be further worked. The very idea of this bill is not adopted negatively, rather we are pleased in the Ministry that the regulation issued by the Minister of Justice is assessed as a regulation that is correct and that can be raised to a higher rank, a law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u31	Thank you, Minister. Are there any questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of you... [[Mr. Marshal, Senator Tyszkiewicz put his voice in the discussion to this point.]] Anybody speak up? [[No. Senator Tyszkiewicz spoke in the discussion at this point.]] Senator Tyszkiewicz, right? [[Yes.]] At this point? [[In this point, in writing.]] [[Voice from the room: Previous point or now?]] Good. Question is, are you at point 20? Right now, we're looking at point 20. [[Yes, Mr. Marshal, in item 20, the senator gave his floor in the debate for the minutes.]] Okay, thank you. I'm typing. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Alexander Swed and Senator Tyszkiewicz have submitted their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Richard Bober. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is sending the draft to the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Is anyone filing a motion? Senator Comfort? [[Excuse me?]] Does anyone submit a request for the appointment of committees to prepare an additional report to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u32	Yeah, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u33	Senator Pociej requests that the committees be scheduled to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear the voices of opposition. Let me remind you that the 18th is due to begin at 11.30 a.m. We proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the second reading of the draft law on compensation for the income lost to the municipalities in 2018 due to the change in taxation of buildings included in wind power plants. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Legislative Commission. The text of the draft is contained in print No 354 and the committee's report In print No 354 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Act sets out the principles and modalities for compensating municipalities with income lost in 2018 due to the change in taxation of wind power structures. This is the result of the Constitutional Court's judgment, but this is about to happen. Art. 2 says that whenever the Act refers to income lost in 2018, it means income lost by the municipality in 2018 as a result of the changes introduced by the article. Points 1 and 6 and Article 2. 3 point 1 of the Act of 7 June 2018 amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and certain other laws. Art. 3 point 1: the municipality acquires the right to compensation for revenue lost in 2018 in full. I would like to stress clearly that the Act sets out compensation for revenue for the whole year 2018. Art. 4: the proposal includes the tax rate applicable in the tax year 2018 and the rules governing it; the list of wind power plants located in the municipality on 31 December 2017 and tax payers together with the legal form of their activities; the tax base for the buildings of each wind power plant referred to in point 2 as at 1 January 2018 resulting from the tax decisions and the tax returns established in accordance with the provisions of... etc. I may not be presenting everything to you here, because this was discussed in detail at committee meetings. Two of these meetings were held. This is mainly to indicate the amount of income lost in 2018, which is the difference in the amount of taxes determined on the basis of the data referred to in points 1 and 3 and the sum of revenue lost in 2018. You have it in your documents. I might say, in short, that there is no question as to whether such a law should be introduced or whether these lost benefits should be returned to the municipalities. In fact, the discussion was about whether the Senate should do it through its bill or whether the government should do it through its bill. We've prepared the bill, this project is ready. Changes have been made to this project, such as the comments made to us by the Regional Audit Chambers. The point is that payments should not be made in annual periods for three years, only for a one-off payment. The differences were also due to the fact that the various financial consequences were calculated, i.e. the OSR made by the Ministry unfortunately differ slightly from the OSR made by our legislators, because according to the precise analytical calculations based on the data from the municipalities the impact of the regulation is about 500 million, and taking into account inflation of about 550 million PLN. I therefore ask all of you to accept this bill. If the government wants to join us here in the Sejm, it will be for the benefit, because, as I said earlier, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal must be carried out, there is no doubt about it. I therefore submit this bill and ask that it be voted out. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u35	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. The applicants also authorized Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz to represent them. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski came to the question. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u36	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to thank Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz very warmly. This is a very important bill. However, I would like to make it clear that we are dealing with two types of losses, on the one hand, with the loss of those revenues that you have spoken of, but also with other losses which are incalculable, and are simply linked to blocking the possibility of implementing projects that are being prepared for several years rather than for several months. And one last thing. However, I want him to clarify what this difference in calculation is, because it should be quite clear and inconclusive. Thank you very much. [[Okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u37	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u38	I'll start by answering the first part of the question. These lost benefits concern, steths or, unfortunately, only lost taxes, possibly the costs associated with interest arising from delays in the payment of compensation are calculated. There are no other effects calculated, e.g. As regards the fact that the municipalities that lost their income could not carry out the investment and could actually claim compensation in this respect. So, Mr. Senator, this bill clarifies whether it determines lost taxes for the whole year, even though the law entered into force in June 2018. The municipalities had to pay back the taxes they had already collected, which means the taxes they collected had to be refunded, especially to entrepreneurs... Because I would like to make it clear here that the regulations that entered into force in 2017, which were adopted in 2016 and were already in force for 2017, were very beneficial for the municipalities, and, unfortunately, the steths were negative for entrepreneurs. Therefore, these lost benefits or lost tax revenues concern only the year 2018, the whole year 2018, but do not take into account other losses suffered by the municipalities. As for the second part of the question, if you would remind me... [[The second part concerned mainly those elements which are related to other losses and to the discrepancy between calculations...]] Oh, discrepancies, okay. I've been sitting with the legislator for a really long time, and he's been showing me the exact calculations, and I've got them here... The Ministry talked about losses or payments due at the level of PLN 200.250 million, but from these calculations provided to me by your legislator it appears that this is by far more than that. But I don't want to go into details anymore... These are mathematical calculations based on real tax receipts for 2017. So on this basis, these possible differences in tax and due tax have been calculated... i.e. the revenue that the municipalities lost on the basis of 2017. These are precise analytical calculations, which refer to the amount of approx. 500 million PLN, and if inflation is taken into account, this should be approx. 550 million PLN. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u39	Thank you. You're asking Senator Janusz Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u40	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, how do you assess the chances of success of this bill? I, of course, support him very much. In the Seym? If you answer me... I will also try to ask the Ministry's representative if he speaks in this regard. Because experience is that our initiatives, even if they are frozen in the Sejm for a while, turn out to be a good example for the ministry to work faster and work on its solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u41	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u42	It's hard for me to tell what the odds are. The Minister's statement showed that the Ministry was also working on this. We started work in the Senate first, then the Ministry started its work. Honestly, for me or for self-government, it's all the same who does it, it's important that it comes into force. It would be best if, in the Sejm, the Ministry joined our project so that we could get to the final result together, which is compensation payments for the municipalities that the municipalities are waiting for. How will the Ministry behave? It's hard for me to say. But, like I said, the best solution is to make it a joint project. The Senate, to which the Ministry would join. And if that were the case, I think that would be the best solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u43	Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for questions. Government representative, Minister, hasn't arrived yet, so we're going to proceed... I will eventually allow him to speak on this issue. Thank you, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Richard Śvilski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I will start my short speech from here: what is the rule of law and what is the citizen's trust in the rule of law? This time I am asking this question in the context of the Act on Renewable Energy, signed by the President on 29 June 2018, which the rapporteur said, and adopted by Parliament on 7 June 2018, the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. This law, which has unfortunately already become a rule, works, acted retroactively. ♪ To this day ♪ I'm not afraid to use that phrase. A classic of the species is the justification of this law prepared by the Ministry of Energy, in which the Ministry stated that there would be no negative financial impact on the state budget and the budgets of the municipalities in connection with the adoption of this law. The senator has just shown in his speech what the financial consequences are not only for the budgets of local governments. And it can be said that this is a strange translation from the ministry, because the equilibrity of this translation and the justification of this law is enormous. How else to describe this fact, since the amendment of this law has affected revenue, it is estimated that 300 municipalities, if I remember correctly, in which the average decrease in real estate tax resources was estimated at at at least several million zlotys, depending on the amount of losses incurred by the municipality. For local governments, it was a huge loss. Everyone knows that preparing a budget in a local government is not simple, it is not an element that does not affect the inhabitants of a given municipality. On the contrary, every investment prepared, every element recorded in the budget resolution is a tangible element to be implemented in the budget. It is not like with the state budget, which unfortunately in recent months, we experience years that we can sort of create this budget. In the municipal government, we will not create additional funds that will be outside the expenditure rule, we will not create funds in which we will be able to fund additional expenses. There is no such possibility in local governments. This mayor is responsible for what he signs and how he implements the budget. Probably examples of municipalities that lost their income from real estate tax could show what immenseness and the state probably know them very well. I will present a brief information on the losses suffered by one of the smaller municipalities, the municipality in Pomorskie Voivodeship, the municipality of Pelplin. Because of the revision of the Act, Pelplin's income on real estate tax on wind power plants was reduced by 3 million 112 thousand, which was 4%. implemented revenues of the municipality's budget in 2018 Before the amendment of the provisions, the income from this title amounted to PLN 5 million 99 thousand, and after the amendment of the provisions, PLN 1 million 987 thousand. Therefore, the municipality had to limit both current and investment expenditure. I will simply say that the thermomodernization of public buildings, adaptation of the rooms of the Training and Education Team in Pelplin, construction of street lighting in Pelplin Municipality, let alone a large EU project related to Pomeranian cycling routes, has not been implemented. Despite the introduction of restrictions and a blockage of expenditure in order to maintain liquidity, it was necessary to enter into financial commitments in the form of bond issuance. The City Council in Pelplina in 2018 made such a commitment for PLN 1 million 500 thousand. The cost of carrying out emissions with interest was PLN 438 thousand. This is also a bit of an answer to Senator Zdrojewski's question, because we are not only talking about lost amounts of tax, which either had to be reimbursed... In the case of the municipality of Pelplin it was slightly different. Well, the parties agreed that it would be a tax for the following year, so there was no refund here, but we do know the cases in which these refunds actually occurred. This is one of many examples, one of the many municipalities that are waiting for this bill. And I have no doubt that we should adopt this bill. I think this is the decision that we should make here in the Senate, because it cannot be so that the consequences of such wrong decisions are borne by the actors, by those who could not even defend themselves at a given time, and that is exactly what happened at the time when the Sejm adopted this law. Mr. Marshal, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u45	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted... Does Senator Gromek want to speak again, or did he address the minutes? Because here we have doubts. [[Yeah, yeah. I'm just upset that I shouldn't speak anymore...]] Okay, Mr. Senator. I'm giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! I confirm Senator Svilski's words. It so happened that in my district, there are several municipalities that have lost 4, 5, 6, 7 million. It was like shooting their budgets... There were planned social investments such as the construction of a small nursery, kindergarten. These are mostly popegeer communities. It's not only that these municipalities don't have the right budget, they operate with modest budgets, it's a loss of millions, and that pandemic that's shown now... These budgetary revenues have been reduced and have not allowed the investments to be made. I therefore support this bill, which was proposed and worked on by my colleague Wadi. And please on behalf of these residents It is known that we, and PiS, are particularly concerned about the poorest, poorest regions, these popegeer communities. For the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u47	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law of the Criminal Code and some other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 383, and the report of the committee In print No 383 A. I now ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u48	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the Law amending the Law of. Criminal Code and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 20 April 2021. On 21 April 2021, the Senate Marshal sent this law to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. Following the review of the Act at its Joint Meeting on 11 May 2021, the Joint Committees shall request the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution on the Law amending the Law and certain other laws and recommend the adoption of the Act together with the amendments. These amendments are the deletion of Article. 2, delete Article. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 5, delete Article. 4, 6 and 7. In short, I would like to discuss the reasons that led the committees to take such a position. In its submission, the law amended the provisions of the Criminal Code, the Code of Offences, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The amendment to the criminal code is related to the implementation of the provisions of Directive 2017/541 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on combating terrorism in the Polish legal order. Until now, criminalisation has been carried out through the Polish border for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence in the territory of another country, the offence referred to in Article. 255a, i.e. the dissemination of content likely to facilitate the commission of a crime, or in Article. 258 §2 or 4, that is to say, an organized group and a criminal union. This change extends the scope of criminalisation to conduct involving crossing the border also in order to commit these crimes in the territory of Poland. This is the implementation of the article. 9 (2) of the Directive. This change generally did not raise any controversy in the joint committees, apart from comments, and this provision has been preserved. However, in the article. 2 of the Act is amended by the Code of Offences. The consequence of this change will be a significant extension of the scope of the offence referred to in Article. 57 §1 of the Code of Offences. In fact, the term "public collection' has been changed to "collective' and the scope has been extended to another form of collection of funds or things. A field of criminalisation has also been identified in relation to the new collection targets. But extending the scope of criminalisation to collections organized e.g. In fact, in order to pay compensation, compensation, for the victim of a crime, it may lead to the loss of the victim's chance of restitution. This is contrary to the restitution objective of criminal law, which, from the point of view of the victim, should dominate the repressive objective against the perpetrator. The prohibition on the organisation of collections for asset guarantees denies the basic function of the institution of guarantee and restricts the use by the court of that institution for the purpose of temporary arrest. As far as the article is concerned. 3, it amends the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure to the following extent. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 156 (5) shall be deleted from the provision on the making available of the file, excluding the right to make the file available to parties, defenders, agents or statutory representatives after the completion of the preparatory procedure. This leads to a restriction on the right of citizens to have access to public information, as enshrined in the Article, guaranteed by the Constitution. 61 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. At the same time, procedural rights are limited to persons who have not obtained the status of a party. The provision therefore leaves the cases completed at the stage of the preliminary investigation at the sole disposal of the investigator and gives him the opportunity to freely refuse access to the file of the completed preparatory proceedings without the right to complain. The next amendment concerns Article. 218a, i.e. secure IT data at the request of a court or prosecutor. The added §4 entitles the court or prosecutor to remove parts of the data published or made available electronically, the prosecutor may decide to remove forever certain contents stored on the media or in the IT system before the court finds that prohibited acts referred to in §4 constitute a criminal offence. A further amendment is contained in Article. Point 3 (4) and this is an amendment to the way in which the person detained is served with an order to apply a provisional arrest against him. Namely, if it is not possible to receive the order, the service provider will draw up a note on a return receipt and the service will be deemed to have been effected. This provision aroused the greatest controversy because it is incompatible with the Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution, which provides that the detained person must be released if, within 24 hours of his transfer to the court, he is not served with the order of the court of provisional arrest, together with the allegations made. The Constitution does not provide for the possibility of dealing with these issues differently. Another change concerns the institution of the letter of iron. An iron letter shall be issued by the court when the suspect or accused person is abroad but has made a statement that he will appear at the court or prosecutor within a certain period of time provided that he is liable for his duty free of charge. The amendments provide that in the preparatory proceedings an iron letter may be issued only at the request of the prosecutor or in the absence of opposition. This limits the jurisdiction of the court in the area of judgment in the case, making the court a body dependent on the position of prosecutor. The granting of a dominant position to a prosecutor before a court shall deprive the court of its powers under Article. 298 §2 k.p.k. And finally, the one added to the covid article law. 14fa, which provides that during the duration of the epidemic or epidemic threat declared on account of COVID-19, and during the year following their revocation in criminal offences punishable by imprisonment, the upper limit of which shall not exceed 5 years, at the appeal hearing, the court shall rule in the composition of one judge if the court has ruled in the same composition at first instance. However, this is too far-reaching a reduction in the principle of collegiate handling of cases, especially as regards matters of such importance as criminal cases. Consequently, with the deletion of the Article. 2 and 3 voted 15 senators, 10 against. By deleting the article. Fourteen senators voted against, twelve against. The committees recommend that the High House adopt the draft resolution, which is to delete all articles outside the article. 1. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's duration to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u50	Senator, are these changes caused by anything? Maybe some facts, some things that are currently underway? Can you tell me anything about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u51	Mr. Marshal, the general situation is that we're used to it. Since 2015, most of the rules have been introduced for a specific purpose. Well, I happen to get all the red lights when I read two recipes. The former refers to the destruction of all materials stored on the medium forever. After all, there may be a situation where the prosecutor did not pass along with the prosecution of all the material collected on the media, but certain fragments. After this, the D.A.'s order to destroy all the rest forever may fail, and therefore there will be no longer the possibility of using all the material. That's the first reservation I've ever had. And here's the other thing. It's an iron letter. In a situation where a suspect or a person who wants to question a prosecutor or a court is abroad, it is the iron letter that is used to... Very often a person who fears a temporary arrest, a long-term temporary arrest, and also feels innocent, has the opportunity to clear himself by making a statement. That's what happens. I don't say it's always like this, but it happens. In a situation where the D.A. is the authorising officer... Because this court should be responsible for this measure. If the prosecutor becomes the dependant of whom it is, either through a request or consent, then the prosecutor decides whether or not someone who is abroad will be able to clear himself or not. He will simply object to such an iron letter. And of course, in politics, we can relate to different situations. But here is the matter of the committee report, I am merely explaining why these two provisions raise my doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you.]] You're welcome, Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mrs. Marshal! I have two questions. I'll try very briefly. The first concerns whether there is in any way a specific provision on the importance of the State's interests. What is the important interest of the state? If there is no concern of disturbing the proceedings, but there is some interest of the State, for example. defender Or better yet, the victim. They won't see the file? Such refusal should remain under the control of the court, in my opinion. What do you think of the marshal? And second question. It is very important because it involves whether I decide to make an amendment after having responded. I would like to refer to the article here. 2, to §3 paragraph 2, which states that... Attention, this is very important, because this is the building of a restrictive and repressive state. I think the whole bill should be rejected at all. But I'd like to focus on this article. 2, which states that the loss is subject to the payment of the dues and the payment for that purpose. This record is more harmful and absurd than the others. So, for example, a colleague pays a fine for a convicted man. What's going on? The money's gone, and the conviction is still fined. For a colleague, then, it will be more punishment than punishment for misdemeanor. Because, attention, in this paragraph If you look at it, you'll see. In the end, it is said that for the payment of money that is not incarcerated, there is a penalty for imprisonment and fines. Some kind of psychic complete. So my question, Mrs. Marshal, is, shouldn't it be written here that the payment of a fine for a convicted person results in a refund of the money to the paying agent and the ineffectiveness of the payment, not the penalty of the arrest? Come on, people. Punish someone who pays money in good faith, even if someone thinks that money might come from some, I don't know... Perhaps otherwise: if a colleague gives money to a convicted person and a convicted person pays the money, then it's okay. But if a friend puts money in his bank account, transfers it from his bank account, he's in danger of being arrested or fined. And the money's gone. So my question is, don't you think that if this entry is going to be Because the legislators were guided by some considerations connected with the fact that this money, well, must come from the convicted, I don't know why, but let's not let it be so that this payment of the fine for the sentenced results in a refund of the money to the paying agent and the ineffectiveness of the payment, not the arrest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u54	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u55	Thank you very much, Senator. Well, with regard to the issues of important interest of the State, of course it is always treated individually in a particular case. So that there are different opinions, what is the important interest of the state. That's the first line. But that's why we decided that this provision should be deleted. As far as the latter issue is concerned, there are a lot of different discussions on this subject, mainly because this is not just about the loss of funds collected for fines or for some other kind of... e.g. for a surety of property. We thought the joint committees thought that this rule was controversial. 'Cause it's not the only controversy here. It is necessary to decide at all to delete this provision. And I agree with the senator here that this is a harmful arrangement. But I'm gonna talk about something else completely different. Few people point out that very often it is so that if the perpetrator of the crime, e.g. A traffic accident, which is an involuntary crime, resulting in severe damage to the victim's body, severe damage to the victim's body... The victim of a road accident then requires long-term treatment, sometimes he needs a pension. I've had experience in court trials with insurers. For a very long and very difficult time, compensation is considered. But if, in criminal proceedings, there is a charge for the victim and people are thrown out, even those of the next family, friends who are not the closest ones, but they will simply throw themselves at the victim, because the person who caused the accident does not have the financial resources to pay the debt... Well, the lack of that, the fine on this issue and the loss of that money make the victim unrecompensable. And that's what you have to pay attention to. It's very complicated matter, and sometimes you have to think about it so you don't fire a baby with a bath. Here is the issue of repressive function to the perpetrator, but also the issue of restitution function to the victim, even the most important thing here is this restitution, if the victim requires it, but here it is as if this possibility is being interrupted. And as for the issue of bail money in the event of a temporary arrest, the court decides here. The court decides on bail, taking into account all kinds of things, different issues, and it has to be left to the court. On the other hand, why should people, friends, or any other family not be allowed to help at this point in time so that such a person is not arrested? There are different situations. Of course, we have situations involving criminals, such broken bones to the core, but we also have completely different situations, and we have to balance that. You can't make such a repressive law, because it's not the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u56	Mrs. Marshal, I have a question from myself for your marshal, in the context of those regulations you're talking about. Are you familiar with the fact that exactly this kind of formulation serves today in Russia for the persecution of opposition activists who want to bail out other persecuted opposition activists? Do you know that this is a binding analogy here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u57	I'm aware of that, but I didn't want to talk about it in the committee's report. Nevertheless, yes, I know, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u58	No further questions. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much.]] The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Piotr Sak has been authorised to present the position of the applicants during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] There's no envoy. Therefore, the senators who could ask him questions after his speech are necessarily deprived of this possibility. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I suppose he did, since he showed up. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kaleta: Mr. Marshal, as this is a parliamentary project, I am ready to answer any questions if any questions arise. The question is whether I can answer from the platform or whether I can answer from here.]] I understand, Minister. So the minister just doesn't have... I mean, he doesn't want to say anything about the bill, but you're willing to answer senators' questions. And thank you very much. Therefore, I am asking the senators whether they would like to ask a question of no more than one minute to the representative of the government in connection with this item on the agenda, that is, the parliamentary proposal. Are there senators like that? There it is. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u59	This concerns the fact that the implementation of European law on such important issues is carried out at the initiative of Members, not at the initiative of the Government. I'd like to ask you why in such a... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but I think we're having trouble communicating, and we're only hearing fragments of your question.]] Maybe with the camera off, it'll be better. Let me ask you one more time. I believe that it is not appropriate to implement European law, not at the initiative of the government, but at the initiative of Members. I respect bottom-up initiatives, but I believe that the process of such sensitive matters must take place with the government. That is why it is very important for me and very important for the government in this matter to express its position on both this project and on the concerns raised by you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The submission was submitted in accordance with the Polish Constitution, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The issues related to the fight against terrorism are probably not controversial enough to prevent this from being achieved within the framework of this, I stress: the permissible path. Thus, the participation of the Ministry at the parliamentary stage as well as at the High Senate was complete.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions? There's no... [[I do.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u63	Are those issues raised by the Senator rapporteur, i.e. the prohibition of raising money for the guarantee of property; the restriction of access to files for persons who were not party; the protection of data in such a way that the prosecutor may remove from the medium some fragments of recorded conversations before handing them over to the court; and the question of the so-called. An iron letter, that an iron letter can only be drawn up at the request of the prosecutor or in the absence of his objection... Are these provisions, in fact changing legal status, also provisions related to counter-terrorism activities? How? Are they related to the anti-terrorist actions that this law was intended to involve?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u65	Mr. Marshal, of course, issues relating to the collection of fines are related to the fact that, unfortunately, it can be noted that, in the case of serious crimes, organised criminal groups, there have been cases where suddenly the suspect was able to raise large amounts of money to pay the guarantee. And this provision completes the system because the previous wording of the code of offences This provision still comes from the end of the 1960's, forbids the payment of fines, in accordance with the Code of Offences by third parties. Therefore, it is all the more appropriate that, more specifically, important issues relating to the criminal code should exist. This provision does not prohibit the lodging of guarantees to the court in its own name, but only prohibits the transfer of funds collected for that purpose. I don't want to refer to any more pathological fundraisers in recent years when even the D.A.'s office had to investigate what was done with the fundraiser money. This provision here complements, in the opinion of the Ministry, those regulations that are already in force. As far as the second question is concerned, I can answer that these types of actions, which are included in this project, concerning the blocking of terrorist and paedophile content, are solutions that are consistently implemented in many countries in some respects. Also at EU level, in EU law, such solutions are introduced as such for implementation. I will say more: even if, in accordance with the last, December last year, the Anti-Terrorism Regulation, everyone has a duty of full and immediate cooperation in the removal of this kind of content throughout Europe. So if purely terrorist content is discovered in Poland, then if this content is posted on servers in another country or an operator operates in another country of the European Union, they are obliged to delete this content immediately upon request of Polish law enforcement authorities. Thus, in this respect, terrorism and paedophile content, these provisions are moving in this direction, which is required of us by EU law adopted and accepted by Poland. So, of course, it has such meaning, which is also worth emphasising.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u66	Thank you, Minister. Are there any other questions? Once again, Senator Wadim... Sorry, not again. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u67	Minister, I would like to ask if the Ministry fully supports this draft law, which is my first question. No objections raised here. And the question to the Minister: does the Minister really believe that if a colleague pays the money, he should be arrested? But shouldn't that money be returned? Well, if that money really should be paid by law only and only by a person authorized to do so, and someone else will pay that money, perhaps even unaware of it, then it is not enough that this money is lost, then the paying man is to be arrested. For bailing out a friend? This raises my greatest reservations about the fact that we are moving towards a really repressive state. Yeah, to jail for bailing out a friend? And one last question. Tell me what the scale of pathology is. 'Cause if that happens I think that may be the case, the Minister is right that there are such cases. What's the scale of that? How many cases do crime money actually get bail? If someone, I say brutally, stole a lot, he's got a lot of money in his account, he's got a way to pay this bail. And if someone's been charged, maybe they're not convicted at the last instance yet, and they don't have that money, that means he's never gonna get out of jail because he just doesn't have anything to pay for it. So the basic and most important question is: what is the scale of this pathology, that one has to punish in some way those laws of all who have been accused? What is the percentage of this pathology that decides to introduce this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u68	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u69	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The issue raised by Senator Tyszkiewicz consists essentially of two elements. The first one is a matter of where responsibility is placed. The liability, the one in the code of offenses, is not charged for paying in their own name all the precautionary measures indicated, whether they are penalties imposed, but for organising collections. This is the subject of a change. The second element concerns a certain system gap, which is currently definitely in Polish law. It follows that... To conclude from the smaller to the larger, one has to ask: if collections for fines have been prohibited for decades from the criminal code, then why is it not in the same way about the code of offences, rather than the criminal code against the organisation of collections for measures resulting from a pure criminal procedure, i.e. crimes, not offences, so much more, can you say, criminally significant? And that's what fills this gap. Because if you can't organize a collection to pay a fine from the criminal code, and you can, for example. collect anonymously, under the table for multi-million-dollar guarantees, it seems to me that here there is a system gap, which this regulation simply complements. And going back to the casus that Senator Tyszkiewicz recalled, I would like to point out that this colleague can contribute this money to his colleague if he is doing so on his own behalf. And that's unchangeable in that respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u70	Thank you, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Jolanta Hibner.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u71	Thank you very much. Minister, give me some examples, because you said there are a lot of things about the implementation of the law. In which country does the D.A. have the right to destroy evidence? Where, in which countries is it common? As we know, many cases have recently been reopened and for the benefit of the defendants... We have an example, among others. A young man who served 22 years for rape he didn't commit on a young girl didn't kill that girl and can start a new life. Which is why I'd like to know if, in this case, we're not in danger of a prosecutor who... This isn't his evidence, it's evidence in the case, so he shouldn't be the owner of this evidence in any way. In the meantime, he can destroy them. After all, there may be a situation that only after many, many years of justice comes to pass. Tell me where the D.A. has the authority to destroy evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u73	Senator, I'd like us to... I'd like to understand your question well. Are you talking about removing content from the Internet?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u74	I'm talking about situations where... As it was said here, you are also asking that the prosecutor should at some moments be able to destroy some of the evidence. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet: Act of Procedure?]] And I'd like to know when, in what countries, the D.A. has that kind of authority. Because you are showing that this law is also supposed to be a response to the European law that is being applied. So tell me where the D.A. has the right to destroy evidence, no matter what case.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u75	Mrs. Senator, first of all, I would like to say that this law does not contain any provision that would alter the rules for the destruction of the files of proceedings. There are laws in every country that regulate the archiving and possible lack of documents of any kind, but this law does not change that. So here maybe there's just been some misunderstanding, Senator. This law has provisions on access to completed acts of preparatory proceedings, here there is some addition, but this is completely, in no way about the lack of specific documents or their destruction. I'm definitely denouncing it. I think that's an answer enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u76	Am I to understand that the D.A. can only destroy documents that are at the stage of proceedings, or maybe in other cases? I'm asking because you said it's commonplace that prosecutors in other countries are just making choices. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u77	Senator, the point is that this law does not change anything that has so far been in force in the archiving of files of proceedings which are concluded at different stages, in different ways completed. And all over the world, there are certain provisions on archiving, which documents, what mode, how to store and when, after which time they can be used for destruction. And in this respect, Poland has laws as well as other countries around the world have laws. And this law of any provision in this order, you can say, archive documents does not change. So there's just no problem the senator raised in the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u78	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Senator Alexander Pociej will be the first to speak. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u79	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to start with a part of the justification for this submission: the proposed amendment is due to the need to implement into the Polish legal order the provisions of the European Parliament Directive on combating terrorism and replacing the Council Framework Decision and amending the Council Decision, hereinafter referred to as the Directive. In today's discussion, like in the lens, what's been going on over the last six years is reflected, because paradoxically, I agree with the Minister here. I'm not talking about all of them, but there really is a lot of legislation here that doesn't make big changes, or these changes aren't as dangerous as they sounded from the voices in the room. The problem is, he's really here. And I understand that this is not an accusation against the Ministry, because the Ministry is not the author, it is a group of Members. Well, there's de facto peas with cabbage. And it is hardly surprising to the senators that, if they have such justification, and later, in the article. There are two changes to the code of offenses... Does the Code of Misdemeanors regulate terrorism in any way? Where's the misdemeanor? Well, it's a crime, it's a criminal code. To the same extent, provision shall be made. Again, because it is regulated by the fact that it is a parliamentary submission, and therefore there is no deeper reflection, we must be very skeptical about these proposals. I understand that the fast track might be about art. 1 because this concerns the safety of citizens. It hasn't been implemented in a long time. There's a need. Well, there's any way to justify it. But all the other stuff, the letter of iron... Has anyone ever heard of a terrorist publishing an iron letter? Well, it doesn't have anything to do with the other one at all. Thus, paradoxically, this submission is indeed a victim of a long tradition of avoiding the correct legislative path. Of course, you can answer the Minister in this way: well, that's the rule of law, and that's the way it is. Yeah, you can. It's the only way to... There is no obligation for Judge Przyłębska to come here to report, and therefore she has changed her long established practice and does not appear here. We are dealing with just such an interpretation... of the interpretation of regulations or the use of certain provisions, so that the whole philosophy of lawmaking, which says that things need to be subject to extended consultations... That's what happened. I go back to it all the time, because it's something that shows the best things that's ever happened. We all remember how every month or every 2 months a representative of the Ministry came with parliamentary projects on changes in the Supreme Court and it turned out that there were just terrible errors. Because it was done quickly, without consulting. Therefore, it is no wonder that what is important is that what is defending itself, what is needed, for the fast path was adopted at committee meetings, and that all that is attached to the extra is rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u80	Thank you very much, Senator. I would ask you to speak in the debate of Mr Marshal Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u81	It seemed to be a completely non-controversial act on combating terrorism, introducing new categories. Yes? And this law, according to information, is the implementation of our commitments to the European Commission. In the meantime, it concerns completely different spheres. The code of administrative procedure. Well, what does the Code of Administrative Procedure have to do with terrorism? What's to limit access to files and copy acts of terrorism? Which is forbidden, punitive fundraisers, fines... Nothing. And that's how you can ask and exchange, exchange... I'm not gonna ask the minister because the minister answers, like he doesn't know what's going on. Well, we know what it's about, when it comes to a law called the generally acceptable Ministry of Justice, it puts in a whole range of solutions that are hard to accept. But it's not from today, not from today. And these are the solutions that show what's going on. These are also solutions that concern individual cases or individuals. A situation like today isn't the first time. Putting very important legal changes in the codes of all codes, including the Penal Code, into the covid law, into the law on health care... You could've seen it. I've seen it, and we've talked about it many times. You can call these changes the statutory names of the persons for whom they were made or under which they were made. Well, I'll remind you: in 2016, the lex Ziobro concerning a case that was brought by the Minister's family. This case concerned suspicion of any medical errors. Then it was converted into a charge of consciously leading to death, that is, murder. Well, the limitation period was approaching, and the qualification had to be changed. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. There was a question of a very expensive opinion, which the party in this civil process ordered abroad. Well, this site would have to pay for that opinion. What's done? Several articles have been changed. The prosecution has joined this case and has become the main subject here. Several articles have been amended in the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the Penal Code, and it turns out that the Treasury will pay for this expertise. In addition, because other expertise did not like it, the article was amended. 233 criminal code, the one about falsifying opinions and translations. There's an expert report here, a recipe for misrepresentation of expertise. If any expertise doesn't like it, you could say it was forged. The expert wrote it, signed it, but forged it. And that was lex Ziobro. In the same year it was loud about lex Obajtek. I didn't believe those voices that came to me that the law was changing so that I could protect some man I didn't know anything about. That name didn't tell me anything. Well, she didn't tell me at the time. Namely, the law has been changed in such a way that the prosecutor can withdraw the indictment handed down to the court already during the trial until the proceedings at first instance have been completed. It was tried to make it possible not only for the first instance but also for the second instance, i.e. for appeal proceedings, but to withdraw and introduce the possibility for the prosecutor to withdraw the indictment only until the end of the proceedings at first instance. So far, it's only possible for the court to do this. And what did it turn out to be? The D.A. dropped the case in which Mr. Obajtek's name was mentioned, separated his story and dropped the case after three months. Well, that case was still going on, of course, but without Mr. Obietka. And I call it Lex Obajtek. Well, we just couldn't imagine that you could do this kind of legal shit just to save your man. And now, in this bill, the Ministry of Justice... Because it is, of course, the author of these changes, not some Member. No Member would have taken such matters on his own. And there are two things I call... The first one I call: lex Kwiatkowski. Well, in Mr. Kwiatkowski's case, an indictment was sent to the court, where there's a wiretap that justifies this indictment... Well, he was dating to appoint a clerk, his deputy, not another candidate. But Kwiatkowski demands that the whole recording be presented, because he says that in the rest of it he said yes: but by way of a competition, only through a competition. So if you guys make this change, the other part will be gone because you can erase that part. That's the opportunity you're giving yourselves. And I'm sure that's what this is about. So the D.A.'s office can freely shape the evidence he's going to present to the court. In this case, as I know, the prosecution still did not present the whole recording, despite its demands and conclusions. The part I'm talking about, the second part. Yeah, but she won't have to when that bill comes in. And another case of an iron letter. So far, the court has decided on an iron letter, and now this iron letter will only be at the request of the prosecutor and only with the consent of the prosecutor, that is, a court without a prosecutor cannot issue such an iron letter. I'd call it "Lex Czarnecki." I'm talking about saying that, too... [[Voice from the O.R.: You don't have time for this...]] ...that the public fundraiser on the oppressed was banned in the times of the Polish People's Republic. And you're making it worse. You're getting deeper, aren't you? You're deepening the Polish People's Republic? Yeah, you guys are patronizing this fundraiser.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u82	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet: For 30 years it has been so.]] Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A little bit different. The speakers raised here a very important problem of introducing a subject entirely unrelated to the amendment and about the negative consequences, but I want to say something else, i.e. of an elementary lack of national culture, which appears in a different context. The implementation of the Anti-Terrorism Directive is one of the key issues in the work of the European Court, the Council and the European Parliament in recent years. The rule of law and justice not only strongly supported this directive but gave the impression that Western Europe had failed to deal with terrorism. I remember these critical voices: we manage, and that world is incapable of a strong reaction. However, the implementation of the Anti-Terrorism Directive comes with a delay and not in the form of a government initiative, but the government worked in the Council of the European Union and, as I say, the propaganda line was that our European partners are the ones who are deprived of action in this matter. In fact, the Senate should not work to implement European directives of such crucial importance in a form other than government initiatives. This should also be the principle of such a fundamental responsibility, not even towards Europe, but towards citizens for the welfare of the state. That's what I'm paying attention to. The document comes with a delay in the form of a parliamentary initiative... By the way, we should look at whether it has been implemented as rigorously as in countries that have to confront terrorism on a daily basis and have done so much earlier than the Republic. Here there is a very important difference between the government's propaganda line, between assigning helplessness to our allies and the lack of real action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u84	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Ryszard Świlski, Alexander Szwed and Wadi Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and the Act on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 356 and the committee's report In print No 356 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Health Committee, Senator Ewa Matecka, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report from the Legislative Commission and the Health Committee, contained in print No 356 S, on the draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and the Act on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices. On 24 March 2021, the Senate Marshal sent to the Legislative Commission and the Health Commission a draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and the Act on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices for consideration at first reading. At its joint meeting on 11 May 2021, the committees examined the draft law submitted by the applicants at first reading and requested the adoption without amendment of the annexed draft law and the draft resolution on the submission of that draft law to the Sejm. High Izbo, the subject of the amendments are the 2nd Act: the Law of 27 August 2004 on the provision of public-funded health care and the Act of 12 May 2011 on the refund of medicines. The changes that we make in these laws allow access to free medicines for women during the period of bedtime. The joint meeting of the Health Committee and the Legislative Committee expressed their full acceptance of this regulation and this initiative, supported by the positive opinion of the ombudsman. Although initially the draft law and the amendments proposed in it were not supported by the Minister of Health, the National Health Fund, the Minister of Finance, Funds and regional policy due to the financial impact of the proposed changes, which is included in the impact assessment of the regulation, the present Minister of Health, Mr Maciej Miłkowski, presented a brief report on the implementation of the so-called. the law on burden plus and use of the budget planned for this purpose. Minister Maciej Miłkowski has shown that the implementation of the budget so far is at such a level that it allows for the implementation of the changes proposed in this amendment and for the provision of free medicines in addition to pregnant women, which is provided for by the current law, including women during the period of the period. In addition, it is with great satisfaction that I must note that I have been able to include on the list of medicines reimbursed, as stated by Minister Miłkowski, free vaccination against influenza for both pregnant women and women during postpartum. At the meeting of the committee, work was completed and this draft law was adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u86	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Ewa Matecka to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Yes.]] Yes. Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u87	Ladies and gentlemen! As the senator put it forward, I said what the financial report on this project looks like at the moment, and confirmed that, according to the impact assessment of the regulation, with regard to the financial security, it is possible to extend this programme. All the drugs we see here, except for one group, are covered by... This part, which is still possible for pregnant women, is not included in the list of medicines refunded, so we can't widen it for now. The request to add a period of substance here is well-founded. For budgetary reasons, this was not in the original version, but we are preparing legal changes as the Ministry of Health. It is a project to extend this to the floors and introduce the possibility of financing medical devices for pregnant women and the floor. We want to present this as a government initiative. I'd like to make amends to what the senator said about drugs for pregnant women. We're currently having a non-flu period. I confirmed that on September 1st, on the list of medicines refunded... For pregnant women there will be free medications, including flu vaccines. According to the current state of law, this will apply to pregnant women, not to women during postpartum. Thank you very much. I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u89	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The Law of 16 April 2020 amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws provided free access to medicines only to pregnant women. This access was granted to women from the date of pregnancy was established to the 15th day following the date on which the pregnancy was scheduled to end. With this bill, we're expanding a group of women... In fact, they're the same women who go through the period of labor after they've been born. It's about access to free medicines for women on the floor. We are therefore prolonging the availability of these medicines. It is to be possible not more than 8 weeks after the planned date of birth. It is extremely important that women who are in postpartum and whose body is returning to their pre-pregnancy condition, women who at that time experience various types of ailments associated with pain, weakness, often also with depression and a number of other postpartum ailments and the risk of multiple complications, are also surrounded by very caring care and, when needed, according to doctors' recommendations, can be treated quickly. And it is needed, as experts often say, when hypertension does not subside, when postpartum depression occurs, when diabetes does not subside, whether there is hypothyroidism, anaemia, or even bleeding disorders. Women at this time and with such ailments require special support and treatment. The proposed in-kind support and the possibility of access to free medicines for women during postpartum as well as before, during pregnancy, will be an important element of a widely understood pro-family policy, because it will allow family members to focus on emotional ties, to strengthen emotional bonds, not just to ensure material existence. I ask the High House to adopt this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u90	Thank you very much, Senator. I am now asking for the floor of Senator Alicia Chybicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill that we're working on right now is extremely important. That's what Senator Matecka's been talking about. We in Poland are suffering from a strong drop in births at the moment. It's just a drama. I remember a time when a million children were born, and now we're praying for 360 grand, 350,000 to be born. I am afraid for this year 2021 very much that this number will be even lower than it was last year. So, laws like the one that allows women to be helped... For those of you who may not really know what a regiment is, maybe I'll zoom in a little bit. Of course, everyone knows about pregnancy. Then there's labor, and then there's labor. This is the period after pregnancy, after birth, in which anatomically, morphologically and functionally pregnancy changes gradually subside and the system returns to pre-pregnancy conditions. It doesn't happen instantly. These periods are as follows. The direct period is 24 hours. We may not talk about this period, because usually the mother is in the hospital. Early half it is the first week, late half it is 6 weeks, so it is estimated. These are of course average values, because each one of us gets sick as he can and carries a pregnancy and gives birth to a child according to his own biological clock. During this time we are dealing with huge hormonal changes. Immediately after birth, the levels of gonadotrophin, lactogen, gestagen, estrogen are falling, and there are changes in the circulation that affect, among other things, the circulation. decreased volume of circulating blood resulting from increased diuresis during the last stage of pregnancy and childbirth and loss of blood during delivery. So that often the volume of circulating blood, of which we ordinary, healthy we have 5 Within 3 weeks, the blood output is also increasing by 80% compared to normal, the number of red blood cells is also rising, and iron levels are falling, platelet counts, fibrinogen levels are falling. A very important part of my fertility as an old pediatrician is lactation, which is, to put it simply, breast-feeding. And I also want to use this speech to appeal to my mother to breast-feed. Hence all medicines and help to moms who are in bed, especially to mothers who are breast-feeding. Of course, for all moms it is planned to refund drugs. What's the most common thing that happens in the bed? First of all, they're left-handed infections, i.e. birth tracts, urinary tract, breast gland, but unfortunately also very often a thrombotic disease, late bleeding after giving birth, is mentioned here about such bleedings which are after 24 hours after delivery, finally postpartum psychosis, which are not so rare at all. It is often insomnia, disorientation, irritability, apathy, depression, and finally it is dramatic when a mother rejects a child. These medical conditions are reversible. Many women suffer from pain and of course you need to take different pain medications such as paracetamol, aspirin, ibuprofen, tramadol These are medicines such as: medicines to reduce blood clotting if you are at risk of clotting; corticosteroids that you are taking for various reasons; antidiabetic medicines; antihypertensives; anti migratory; anticonvulsants. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important bill. I bow low to the Minister for finding money for these women and saying that this could be done quickly, that already in 2021 there is money for this purpose. This draft was voted unanimously at the committee meeting. And I appeal to the entire Senate to vote unanimously too, because mothers are waiting for this help, and we are waiting for as many healthy children as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u92	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In fact, a lot has been said here. As this applies to women who are pregnant, in labour and in childbirth, I will also talk about a group of women that I meet on a daily basis in clinical practice, because As you know, I am a cardiologist, and a large number of these women suffer from pregnancy-induced hypertension and need to be looked after. And it's not true that a pregnant woman isn't taken care of and doesn't take medication. Yes, there are no tests on this group, there are only expert observations, but absolutely they should be treated, including pharmacological treatment. I therefore particularly want to thank Senator Ewa Matecka and the Minister for leaning over this group of patients. And this causes at this difficult time, because also during the covid period, and at a time when there are very few births of newborns, that we lead to a good ending of pregnancy. It's also time for women who miscarried. And these people, these women, are particularly entitled to medical care in the psychological and psychological aspects, and physical health due to the diseases that accompany them. This is why it is an extremely valuable initiative. I think this group needs to be taken care of. And thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u94	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you, for the sake of order, that Senator Alexander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. Before closing the discussion, I would like to thank all the participants very much, because it is not often possible for this important issue to have such a spirit of consensus and mutual respect in our Parliament. Thank you very much, senator. Thank you very much, Minister. And I also express my personal hope that our vote will end positively for Polish mothers. Thank you very much again. The discussion is closed. Was the representative... and no, there were no conclusions. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the second reading of the draft call for action to increase the mobility of European Seniors. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 392 and the committee's report In print No 392 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft call for action to increase the mobility of European senior citizens. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the call to the institutions of the European Union for action to increase the mobility of European senior citizens. As you mentioned by the marshal, this is a report on the initiative of senators from various senate clubs, which is taken over the political divisions represented by Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka. The essence of this initiative is the call for the opening of EU programmes, programmes of broadly understood education to the older generation, to seniors. In short, it can be said that it is primarily about opening up the Erasmus programme, but not only. This initiative was inspired by the debate that took place on the occasion of celebrating the activities of universities of the third century. This is an extremely important achievement of social, senior activities. We remember that we hosted a representative of this great initiative in the Senate, with President Krystyna Lewkowicz at the head. The appeal emerges from the belief that the aspirations and educational needs of the oldest generation, which is an important part of Europe's contemporary societies, should be much more appreciated by European programmes. And we all seem to be absolutely sure that social benefits, cultural benefits from educational activities, from contacts between seniors representing the various peoples and societies of Europe will be extremely important. The Commission accepted the amendments and suggestions of the Legislative Office. It also decided to remove from the draft submitted to the High House a section on covid aspects, i.e. vaccination and travel of older people, including a passage concerning a possible introduction of a vaccine passport. It was the decision of the majority of the committee that removed it. I would like to say that the moment for this initiative is as appropriate as possible, because work is ongoing at European level at EU level on the new form of the Erasmus Regulation. The Senate's appeal is therefore one of the paths, one of the ways of influencing European legislators to open EU education programmes to the needs and aspirations of seniors. On this occasion, I would like once again to thank the community of universities of the third century, without which this resolution would not have taken place. In conclusion, I'm filing for her admission. And thank you to the initiators representing, as I said, the various political environments in the Senate. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u96	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have authorized Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka to represent them. For printing No 392. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. I therefore open the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, remotely of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u97	Good morning. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for accepting our initiative to increase the mobility of our seniors at the meetings of both committees. One fifth of the European Union's population are senior citizens. A policy on active ageing has therefore been pursued in the European Union for many years. Member States implement this policy, which is best done by Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands. Poland is still on the tail of the Member States of the European Union and with a very low assessment of state policy in this area. And this policy is extremely important because it provides opportunities for our seniors to be active both in the economic and social sphere. Fortunately, Polish seniors themselves take part in the implementation of these European models of active ageing. Universities of the third century are being established, senior municipal councils are being established, seniors are participating in various types of training, both on digitalisation and languages, volunteering is being stimulated, and an increasing number of older people are participating in volunteering. Their interest in the world is growing. It's huge. The latest research from 2019 carried out by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy shows data relating to the mobility of seniors, related to private travel for more than one day, with accommodations of 13%. all tourist trips from all age groups. This shows how eager seniors are to travel to explore the world to gain experience. Our initiative was born in connection with various other experiences of increasing mobility, but for other age groups, not for seniors. Such an excellent example is, among others. Erasmus, which is addressed to young people, is addressed to teachers and is addressed to teachers, but there is no initiative to direct this programme to seniors to increase their mobility. Hence, our call for this program to include a path that allows the mobility of seniors. Another programme is being implemented in the European Union, which offers great opportunities to get to know the Member States of the European Union. This is a program called DiscoverEU. It's a program addressed to 18-year-olds who can apply for a ticket as a gift for their 18th birthday. They participate in a very simple competition on the knowledge of the European Union and receive a train ticket after winning this competition, and if they are people from remote countries, they will be able to visit 3 countries of the European Union. We would like to see a programme similar to DiscoverEU addressed also to seniors, so that our seniors can participate in such programmes and gain new experiences, check their language skills while travelling around the European Union. I must tell you that I myself participated in an excellent project, we have implemented in my region a programme aimed generally at all citizens, to all the inhabitants of Opole, in which we trained in English people who started this teaching at all, as well as those who already had some kind of involvement and some kind of language skills. And imagine that over 50% were people over the age of sixty-five, seventy years old. Very often these people came to school with their grandchildren and learned English together. When I asked these people, which is why today you started learning English, it turned out that the reasons are different, among others. such as the desire to travel and move freely in another country, with the knowledge of English. But there were also reasons that children went abroad and grandchildren speak English and sometimes it's much easier to communicate with these grandchildren in English than in Polish. This is why I think that the initiative we have proposed, an initiative that I hope will be accepted by both the European Parliament and the European Commission and the Council, will meet with great applause. And that at the same time there will be a lot of commitment, interest just among seniors. I would ask that we accept this call together and pass it on to the relevant institutions in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u98	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft appeal... [[Voice from the room: What do you mean?]] I'm sorry, I thought the number was already exhausted... [[No, no, I volunteered in room 217...]] Sorry, I didn't get that call, Senator. Please take the floor in the debate by Senator Ewa Matecka. [[Voice from the room: I don't think we got it.]] I'm sorry, I didn't get the call.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u99	That's okay, Mr. Marshal. I volunteered for discussion. Thank you so much for letting me speak. High Izbo! The importance of senior policy continues to grow, and the increasing life expectancy in most countries of our culture means that this policy must not be limited to developing a variety of forms of care for the elderly, but must also take into account the need for social and intellectual activity of seniors. The call prepared by the senators is one step further, since it is intended in the long term to enable the integration of cognitive activities and the implementation of educational and sometimes even scientific passions of people who have reached retirement age and have completed their career. From the Polish perspective, this initiative seems extremely valuable and expected, as native seniors can still benefit from a rather modest offer in the field of education, and almost exclusively in large and medium-sized cities. While appreciating the achievements of institutions such as universities of the third century, senior clubs or senior houses, it is objectively acknowledged that they are not able to fully meet the expectations of their listeners, because they practically do not fit into international educational programmes, which would not only have the chance to maintain the activity of seniors, but also, and perhaps above all, could raise their social and communication competences. This is particularly the case for the possibility of communication at international level and using modern digital tools, which have become an essential way of exchanging information and overcoming geographical constraints. According to the 2019 data, the percentage of people of about-emergent age with basic digital competences enabling the use of available communication channels is only over 20% in Poland. I'm giving it to to us third place from the end among the countries of the European Union. We are only ahead of Romania and Bulgaria. In the most developed countries, this percentage is around 70%. International education cooperation under EU senior programmes will therefore provide an opportunity to align the level of competence in all areas that support the intellectual activity of people of retirement age and enrich seniors with additional cognitive value and mobility. The benefits of a positive response to our call, of course, are much more and cannot be mentioned here. Some will probably only come out when some of the programmes are put into effect. I therefore strongly encourage this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u100	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I, too, would like to join in congratulating the initiators, because this is a very valuable initiative. I do not hide that when I was a resident of western Poland, I often looked at buses that came to us from beyond the western border, and this bus with retired neighbours from behind the Oder was synonymous with prosperity. We were looking very jealously at the fact that people, after years of hard work, could afford active ageing if they could even use this term. Poland has taken a huge step over the last years, and I would like to stress this, especially with regard to local governments, where the activity of universities of the third century or... In my town, in Nowa Sola, we have created an amazing center for social inclusion, where older people have the opportunity to spend time freely and have the opportunity to activate: they can paint paintings, they can practice, they can meet and they can expand their interests. This initiative is another step towards making this activity even more active. Looking at what a great programme for young people was Erasmus... If, in some way, this is passed on to older people, it will indeed be something unheard of. That's why I keep my fingers crossed for the success of this initiative. Once again, I stress: the life of Poles is increasing, we live longer and longer, the retirement age is being reduced, we have more and more time to be active as people, which is why this initiative is extremely valuable and I support it with all my power. Thank you very much. And congratulations to the inventors.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u102	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft call. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Dismissed until 4:00 p.m. For the record, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Senator Aleksander Szwed have made speeches to the minutes. I ask the senator to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u103	Today's meeting of the Legislative Commission in the plenary room together with other committees on the proposals tabled today will begin at 2.15 p.m. meeting with the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development; at 2.30 p.m. meeting with the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. And that's all the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u104	Thank you very much. Dismissed until 4:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 04 to 16 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u105	Please take your seats slowly. Senator locksmith in some dumb-ass bench or something? [[Mr. Marshal, I was supposed to be in room 217, but I think I'm needed.]] Oh, I get it, I get it. Although we told the senators not to switch between the halls, we would look at it with a kind eye. Unless Minister Kraska, as I say, intervenes here in the case of epidemiology. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please remind the Honorable Parliamentary nominate that we are now in session. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman. According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland ombudsman shall be appointed by the Sejm with the consent of the Senate for a period of 5 years. According to Art. 3 (1) (a) 4 of the Act of 15 July 1987 on the Ombudsman, the Senate shall adopt a resolution on the consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman within one month of the date on which the resolution of the Sejm on its appointment was passed to the Senate. The resolution of the Sejm on the appointment of the Ombudsman was forwarded to the Senate on 16 April 2021. It is included in Senate print No 382. The Sejm called Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, to this position. The candidate's life story is included in Seym Printing No 1028. I would like to welcome Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to the Senate meeting appointed by the Sejm as Ombudsman. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that the Senate may, before adopting a resolution on the consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman, call on the candidate for this position to provide explanations and answer the senators' questions. Would any of your senators like to ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski questions or ask him to explain? Mr. Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u106	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask the candidate for an ombudsman who is qualified to perform this function. And if he could also present his vision of the Ombudsman's activities, what he would like to do in the short and long term...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u107	Thank you very much. Then I will ask the Member to come to the podium. We do not have the habit of limiting our guests' speeches, but please put it within reasonable time limits. Usually government representatives try to fit in about 20 minutes, but... well, we'll try to keep up the high level of senate ethics here. Does Marshal Kaminski have a supplementary question? Or later? [[Later, later.]] Okay, thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u108	Honourable Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! The Ombudsman is an important body of the State. It's an important function and a big responsibility. As stated in the article. 208 of the Constitution, the Ombudsman upholds human and citizen rights as defined in the Constitution and other normative acts. I am prepared for this because of education, work and social experience, experience in the service of another person. I am a hardworking, consistent and independent thinker. Today, it is your job to interrupt the pat connected with the election of the Ombudsman, the exit from the party wedge. We are in a situation where Polish proverbs are helpless. After all, it is said that up to three times the charm, and today Parliament is making a fourth attempt. The Higher House will decide to approve or reject my candidacy for this honorable but most of all necessary office for citizens. Before answering the question put by your President, I would like to thank both the current spokesperson, Prof. Adam Bodnar, and all the candidates who have submitted to Parliament's review in recent months: patron Zuzanna Rudzińska-Bluszcz, Prof. Robert Starzdowska, Prof. Piotr Wawrzyk, Piotr Ikonowicz and Prof. Sławomir Patyr. As far as I'm concerned, I studied and defended my Ph.D. at the University of them. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. For three years, I completed my education abroad. I studied European law at the University of Bamberg and later postgraduate studies in comparative law at the Fryderyk Wilhelm University of Bonn, where I received a Master's degree in Iuris compartivi. I defended my PhD at my Alma Mater, Poznan's home university. May I add just that, due to these long stays abroad, I have also been in scientific internships in Strasbourg and Berlin, and I have diplomas confirming the knowledge of several foreign languages: German, English, French and Russian. For 9 years I worked at the Western Institute, where I dealt with Polish law, German constitutional law and European law. Then I worked as an expert at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic, namely the Office of Law and Government. Since 2010, I have been working at SWPS University of Humanities and Social Sciences, where I was among others. Director of the Institute of Law and Head of the Public Law Department. I've been teaching constitutional law and human rights for almost 20 years. I am the author of 3 books, 2 published in Poland and 1 published in Germany. They are all about the liability of public authorities, in particular the legislative authority. I wrote work on European law, the European Convention on Human Rights, simplification of tax law, as well as mediation and free legal assistance. As an MEP, I worked in legal committees, among others. in the Extraordinary Committee on Changes in Codifications, which I was and in the previous and in this term of office Vice-President. I was the Chair of the Permanent Sub-Committee on Changes in Administrative Law and the Permanent Sub-Committee on Changes in Criminal Law, and I worked as Vice-Chairman of the Parliamentary Group for Life and Family. Until now, I'm vice-president of this team. In Poznań and Poznań district, I conducted 18 legal assistance and civic counseling services covering construction, pension and pension matters, tax cases, banking cases, helping people looking for a job. Between 2015 and 2019 more than 2 000 200 people benefited from this aid. I was also the rapporteur of the draft law submitted by the President concerning free legal assistance, civic guidance and legal education, the creation of a register of pedophilia, mediation in administrative proceedings and before administrative courts or compensation for former opponents. I have worked with dozens of social organisations that support very different groups of people, among others. Disabled, seniors, people repressed before 1989, children, single mothers, but also single fathers, tenants, franchise, farmers, entrepreneurs. I have also worked with trade unions, including many trade unions, Solidarity, and urban movements. Since December 2014, I have been a member of the Council of the Foundation for Humanitarian Aid in Poznań. I was a member of the social councils of the Children's Rehabilitation Centre in Poznań-Kiekrzu and the health and care centre in Poznań. I am currently on the social council of the Hospital of Clinical Transfiguration of the Lord's Medical University. Karol Marcinkowski in Poznań. I have been the initiator of a number of actions to strengthen the protection of constitutional rights and freedoms, including the right to life, the right of parents to raise children according to their own beliefs. In this capacity a few weeks ago, I stood before the High Chamber in connection with the Law on Support for Domestic Education and projects concerning support for people with disabilities. I was defending religious freedom, the right to privacy, economic freedom and property rights. What are my priorities for the Ombudsman? Ladies and gentlemen, the Senators, in accordance with the article. 208 of the Constitution, the Ombudsman defends the freedoms and human rights of the citizen as defined in the Constitution and in other normative acts. Of all these areas, I will show you four areas of special attention, but first I will briefly talk about this key constitutional regulation and the sources of threats to freedom and rights. This provision of the Constitution is understood strictly and I believe that this is the way it should be understood. In other words, the Ombudsman should not engage politically, and even more so be on one side of the political dispute. I solemnly declare that I will not be a spokesman for either the government or the opposition, that I will stand on the side of the citizens. I agree with Piotr Ikonowicz, who at the Justice Committee said that it is not beneficial for the country if the Ombudsman becomes a player in one of the two rival teams. This is an important damage for citizens. This is also my view, my very deep conviction. I would like to stay as far away as possible from... or as close as possible to the task set out in the Basic Law and to stand on the side of citizens in disputes with the authorities, here I would like to emphasise strongly: with every authority, i.e. with national and international authorities, with central and local authorities, legislative authorities, executive authorities and judicial authorities, current and future threats to the individual do not only concern problems related to public authority, those arising from public authority. Today, many people think that the growing ones are the influence of those who do not have any democratic legitimacy, but they have huge potential for influence, and I think of international companies and what we have seen in recent weeks and months, e.g. on the functioning of social media, i.e. freedom of expression, but also fair access to vaccines. The threats are also coming from other actors, which we have known for many years, because we are struggling with the problem of house cleaners or with the injury of usury. According to Art. 80 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to ask the Ombudsman for assistance in the protection of freedom or rights infringed by public authorities. There can therefore be no restrictions on age, belief, religion, health, orientation, or sexual orientation. No one can be discriminated against. This case is absolutely clear to me. The Holy Father John Paul II said: "A society in which there would be room only for those who are fully functioning, completely independent and independent would not be a society worthy of man. Such discrimination would be no less shameful than discrimination on grounds of race, sex or religion. And in this spirit, the Ombudsman's first task, although I repeat, is to uphold all the rights of the individual, but in particular his task is to protect the weakest, the victims of fate, which are often not because of their own fault, and because of education, due to financial reasons, because of residence, lack of access to courts, lack of access to media are excluded, are discriminated against. These are, in particular, sick and disabled people, seniors, those who are struggling with housing difficulties, tenants, co-workers, lifelongs, homeless people, prisoners, children. We've been hearing a lot of references recently, especially when it comes to children, about mental health issues. These are also women discriminated against for pay reasons, because of social security, difficulties in terms of promotions. There is a need to add an issue that is imposed on itself, and this is, of course, monitoring legislation on domestic violence. In any such case, the ombudsman... If I am approved by the High House, I will make every effort to fight this phenomenon. The category of the weakest are also workers whose wages are not paid or who are being mobbed. And more importantly, it is about combating discrimination against people who are not wealthy and with lower cultural capital, and it is also about the rights of national, ethnic, religious and other minorities. The second area I consider important and often referred to is connected with such a general declaration that I will be a spokesperson for the Polish village. I believe that we need to do more to support, protect and help farmers because of their freedoms and rights, which are being reduced in different ways: as regards their right to farm, in terms of their capacity to develop, develop their businesses, farms, in terms of agricultural damage or subsidies, for example. development of spatial planning plans. Another group related to this area are the freedoms and rights of rural residents. There are various types of exclusion: communication, cultural, transport. The third area is traditional rights and freedoms, i.e. historically these oldest rights, those which we sometimes say are legal, which are closely linked to the fact that we are human beings. They are, of course, also referred to in exposed places in the Constitution, and this is about life, it is about the rights of family, parents to raise children according to their own beliefs, freedom of religion and freedom of conscience. And the last group I want to tell you about, which I am emphasising, is classic liberal freedoms, including: freedom of speech, association, assembly, freedom to conduct business, property, freedom to conduct research and teaching at universities. Recently, this group of rights seemed completely undisputed, but in recent years we have seen more and more signals that this area should also be subject to restrictions, proposals for change. I'm thinking here, for example. about freedom of expression, what we see on the Internet on the example of social media. A separate issue is all the challenges that the pandemic has brought. Here's a thank you to everyone who participates in its fight. Thank you absolutely beyond division. Last year brought many restrictions in Poland and Europe. During this time, we have made clear the importance of the right to health protection, business rights, workers' rights, but also the challenges of the need to equalise educational opportunities among children due to the pandemic. It is important to develop new rules for pandemics, to find a better balance between security and freedom. As ombudsman, I will support citizens in all these challenges at this difficult time. I am talking about 4 areas, because they are such a shortcut for the legal regulation of our constitution, but they are also areas of particular responsibility for the various sides of the political scene, including yours, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. The problems of freedom and the rights of the weakest are always, traditionally, the domain of the left. Rural matters were a special responsibility of the people. We associate traditional freedoms and rights with the right hand, and classic liberal freedoms were a particular area of responsibility for liberal formations. I am talking about these four areas, equally important areas of my intentions, because, first of all, I see them, secondly, I want to show respect for the left and the voters of the left, people and voters of folk parties, the right and traditional voters and liberals and people of this world view. And thirdly, I'm talking about this because I want to show my determination that none of these groups should be ignored. A few words about the pluralisation of institutions and decentralisation. If I am elected ombudsman, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like the Ombudsman's office to be pluralized, diverse environments and worldviews, because political compromise is needed to choose. I invite you to co-form this office to identify 2 people who would guarantee that your point of view will be respected. I would like one of the deputies to be particularly responsible for rural affairs. One of the members of the Kukiz Club'15 previous term of office proposed to set up an office for the Ombudsman of farmers' rights. I propose that this spokesperson for the rights of farmers be one of the deputies of the Ombudsman. I would like the second deputy to be specifically responsible for living matters, social and civic affairs. It could be a person with a liberal view. If this were to work, we'd stop the political stalemate, we'd stop the wedge, but there'd be more to it than that. We could pluralise the institution itself, show that in our divided society it is possible to signal our fellow countrymen that we are able to communicate and that it is an institution in which we have achieved a cross-party compromise, that it will be an institution that does not actually work on the side of the government or on the side of the opposition, but on the side of the citizens of all citizens. I would also like the Ombudsman to be more present in local Poland, not only in Warsaw, but also in other major cities, and not only in large cities, but also in district Poland, to create at least 3 new local centres of the Ombudsman: for north-eastern Poland maybe with its registered office in Olsztyn, for south-eastern Poland perhaps in its seat in Lublin and for north-western Poland perhaps with its registered office in Poznań or in Lubuskie land. In fulfilling the obligation under Article. 208 of the Constitution, the Ombudsman must be ready to enter into a dispute with an authority that violates the rights of the individual, but in my opinion it must also be able to cooperate. The Constitution speaks of this in the preamble, which calls for cooperation between the authorities and social dialogue. In relation to this and the experience of the last decade, and perhaps even two decades, I would see one additional field of activity of the Ombudsman. It is, ladies and gentlemen, the building of bridges, the creation of a place for dialogue in such matters where a compromise is needed beyond one term of office, beyond two or even more terms of office. There are three areas that I am talking about on this occasion: the justice system, the standards of lawmaking and the issues of self-government. This is related to my other conviction, namely the need for the Ombudsman to promote alternative dispute resolution methods: settlement, arbitration, mediation, including institutions of judges of peace. A huge part of our effort, both in private and in social life, is spent on disputes, which most of us come to the conclusion after a while that they were not needed and that their effect is not satisfactory. All the more worth it, at least where it is possible, and to the extent it is possible, bet on a more concerted problem solving. This is one of the features of my vision of the Ombudsman's office. Before I was appointed by the Sejm, High Izbo, I was able to meet the circles of the Confederation, Kukiz'15, Poland 2050 and in a less organized way with people's messengers, liberals and socialists. A week ago, a meeting took place with Marshal Professor Tomasz Grodzki, and then with Senators of Law and Justice, circles of the Polish Coalition, independent senators, as well as representatives of the Civic Coalition and with Senator of Poland 2050, Mr Jack Bury. Once again, I thank all the clubs, the wheels, the senators for their meetings, for their usual factual and inspiring conversations. The ombudsman's vows are: "I solemnly pledge that in the performance of my duties as Ombudsman I will remain faithful to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, I will uphold freedom and human rights and citizens, following the laws of law and the principles of social and justice. I pledge that I will carry out my duties impartially, with the utmost care and diligence, that I will uphold the dignity of my position and keep my secret legally protected. It's a vow, if I'm elected spokesperson, maybe it'll be finished in the opinion of If I'm elected spokesperson, I'll keep that vow. I hope that, ladies and gentlemen, the senators will be in favour of creating a less political and more inclusive institution of the Ombudsman, based on dialogue and promoting alternative dispute resolution. As I wrote before, not so long ago, after all, most of us aspire to be modern people, and modernity is the ability to change views under the influence of arguments. Thank you very much. I'm open to your further questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u109	Thank you very much, sir. You are asking the question of Marshal Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u110	Dear Members, Professor, I have two questions for you. I will not allow myself in these questions to have any polemics or comments to your speech, because that is what time will be in the debate. So now, just two questions that I am explaining to you, I will refer to very specific events in recent days to ask you how you would have behaved in relation to these events if you were an advocate of civil rights. The first of these events concerns the decision of the Polish Episcopate not to disclose all documents held by the Episcopate, the State Pedophilia Committee, I repeat: the State Pedophilia Committee. Moreover, bishops, which I have just checked, read, said that their decision regarding the scope of cooperation of the citizens of the Republic of Poland, members of the Episcopate, with the state commission of the Republic of Poland, that the decision on the scope of this cooperation depends on the position of the foreign state, the Vatican. How do you feel about that? I'm not asking you... I would insult you if I asked you about your attitude towards pedophilia in the Church or anywhere else, because you certainly have the same as me, which is negative. And that's clear... [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Bartłomiej Wróblewski: Well, I was working on a pedophile register.]] It's clear. I would like to ask you, as a possible ombudsman, not about your attitude towards this terrible crime, but whether such a position, which makes the cooperation of Polish citizens dependent on the scope of cooperation with the state institution investigating cases of pedophilia, is a good position. And second question. I'd like to ask them right away. It concerns the situation of our colleague in the Senate. I didn't talk to him about it, but today I read that Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz has a busy account due to his failure to pay a radio-television subscription. I don't mean, God forbid, that I would expect the senator to be treated differently than the rest of the citizens. God forbid, that's not what I mean. I wonder what you would think as an Ombudsman of civil rights that we are all forced by the right to pay for television, which, in my opinion, does not entirely reflect the views of at least half of Poles and which, moreover, these Poles are quite notoriously insulting and questioning their system of values, their political choices, their worldview choices. These 2 questions about your attitude to the decision of the Episcopate and your attitude towards public television in Poland... [[The Ombudsman Bartłomiej Wróblewski, appointed by the Sejm: Is that all the questions?]] Yeah, these are the two questions. [[The Ombudsman Bartłomiej Wróblewski, appointed by the Sejm: I will answer all these questions. I'll start with...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u111	Just, please, in a nutritious and brief manner, because there are even more questions. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u112	I understand, but I'm very happy to answer all your questions, Mr. Marshal, and I'm happy to answer them. Let me start by asking you a second question about Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Of course, I don't know the details of this case. Well, you're confronting me with this situation. But what I want to say to Senator Vadim Tyszkiewicz and to all the senators, and ultimately to all the parliamentarians: if anything happens to you that, despite the high position you have, you will find yourself in a situation that I refer to as being a weaker party in a fight with the state, and that is possible, we realize that, then surely each of you will be able to count on my support as an ombudsman. I believe that parliamentarians can also find themselves in such a situation. However, I very much want to say that I very much avoid speaking about specific things that I do not know in detail. We're based on media information that's being verified the next day... On the one hand, the Ombudsman's assistance Yeah. On the other hand, not to speculate on such recent reports. As far as the issue of this position of the Episcopate is concerned, I do not know this position, I have not even heard of it, but I am sure that the Episcopate is bound to comply with Polish law. If any action were against Polish law... Clearly, this must be enforced. As far as relations with the Vatican are concerned, I prefer to say: with the Holy See They were traditionally good in Poland and very important, so I would not build tension here. But as far as legal issues are concerned, the issue is clear, also as regards the fight against pedophilia, we must be very firm and everyone must fully comply with the rules of law, there can be no reduction rate for anyone. As far as the public television issue is concerned, there are two elements here, I think. The first is that I guess this question will be asked here today in a different context. For many years there has been a huge media imbalance in Poland. There were 3 large TVs, 3 large Internet portals, 2 large radios and they all had a very uniform worldview message, ideal. And it's a good thing there's been some pluralisation in recent years. I think this process should be deepened. I hope that we will live to see such times that in Poland there will be this pluralism, Mr Senator, there will be this pluralism, well, a bit in the shape of the United States of America, where there are big television stations, great media that are close to different parts of society, because then this pluralism is real. And I hope that this is the last part of my response that we will one day reach a compromise in Poland on not only public media, but also on some other institutions where it is necessary for every large part of the political scene to have a sense of some influence on them. I'm thinking here, for example. on the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal or of special services. In some countries in the West, such a multi-faceted compromise has been reached and then relationships, tensions are smaller.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u113	Thank you very much, sir. I don't mean to pry, but I don't know if there's public television in the United States, but it's more like commercial stations. The question is Senator Jacek Bury. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u114	Professor! Mr. Speaker! You listed many of your advantages here and many of your actions as your successes so far, your achievements in life. Well, they're impressive. However, I would like to point out that the broad circles of our society, among the citizens, are you Unfortunately, more famous for other activities. You are known for this application to the Constitutional Court, because the so-called "broken" was the result of your actions. an abortion compromise. And the Ombudsman, in my opinion, should be a sensitive man, a man open to human harm. It should not be an official, it should be a responsible person and a person close to such a normal human life, with a sense of decency, human decency. Is it after all the fight that was, no matter how we judge her? I don't think it was a very good decision. After the harm that was done to Polish citizens, women, now you would change your mind, change your behaviour, would you do the same again and act on this matter exactly as you did a few months ago? And if you change your mind, correct your opinion, are you ready to apologize to the citizens of Poland, especially women, for the harm and suffering that these women will suffer? Thank you. [[I'm not offended, so not all women.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u115	Ladies and gentlemen... [[Mr. Marshal, one minute.]] [[I'll keep an eye on that minute, Mr. Marshal.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I agree with the senator that the Ombudsman must be sensitive to human harm. And it is wrong to restrict, violate the rights and freedoms of the individual as defined in the Constitution and in other normative acts. It is a very precise article. 208 constitutions. The most fundamental human right is the right to live. This right is expressed in Article. 38. As I mentioned earlier, it is legal. It does not belong to us because we are citizens, because we have some merit, but because we are people. And it is a fundamental, inalienable human right. And the state must protect every human being, without distinguishing that one of us is rich, the other is poorer, one has some advantages, one is weaker for some reason, one is healthier and the other has a worse health condition, someone is fully fit and someone is disabled. The Constitution protects the rights and freedoms of the individual. Sometimes this protection is accepted as something normal, but there are situations where it is not accepted as something normal, and sometimes protection is against the views of the majority. Well, the idea of human rights is that they protect people because they're human, not because most people vote like that. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to assume that we are holding a referendum today on whether the people who have more than 1 million zlotys should be expropriated or whether they should be taken away from them... Well, Mr. Senator, it might turn out that most people would decide that they would. But it's the individual's rights and freedoms that are there to protect us because we're human beings. As I said, sometimes things are not discussed, but sometimes they are socially controversial. There are more such examples. Would we like to decide in a referendum e.g. on the issue of the death penalty and on many other issues? The Ombudsman must defend all rights. Sometimes these rights are the rights of the majority, but sometimes they are the rights of minorities. Many of you are involved in helping different social groups: workers, disabled people, the environment of other sexual orientations, hunters, anglers... Well, we have different... We find ourselves in different situations, we take different activities and competitions. The Constitution and the rights granted in the Constitution protect us all, even when it comes to situations that do not arouse social enthusiasm, are not popular. We cannot turn our eyes away from the fact that in Poland thousands of sick and disabled children were killed. They had constitutional rights, too. And they were the weakest of the weakest, for first of all children; second of all, Unborn; thirdly Disabled. But should they be denied the right to live? That's the first line. The second point is that we need to put this question in a broader context. After all, the right to life was enshrined in the Constitution in 1997. Not many of us. it participated in the adoption of this constitution, although many of us accepted it in a referendum. The Constitutional Tribunal of 28 May 1997, one day after the adoption of this Constitution in a referendum, stated in the ruling that human life is also protected during the period before birth and that the right that the legal system, that the State cannot give up this protection, was the right to do so. I am talking about this because to tell you that the application to the Constitutional Tribunal was based on sensitivity to human harm and on the freedom and rights of citizens. And we must try to defend these rights. Of course it's the other side of the coin. And now I refer to the fact that the correlation between the right to life is the right to a decent life, to special support for disabled people, sick people, lonely people, but also mothers in difficult pregnancies. Therefore, as vice-president of the Parliamentary Group for Life and Family, I was the initiator and main author of the position addressed to the government on these issues: assistance, the best possible perinatal, hospice, palliative, financial assistance to mothers in difficult pregnancies, support for disabled children, adults with disabilities, carers; opportunities to combine professional work with care and support for people with disabilities after the death of parents and carers. The first of these laws is actually ready. He's at the consulting stage at the Ministry of Health. This is a big request for Senator Kraska to conclude this consultation as soon as possible and so that the bill can go to Parliament. Another project or 2 projects maybe at the end of this year, perhaps at the beginning of next year they will appear in Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u116	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u117	Mr President, I will consciously not ask you about matters of world view, and a case which will show me you as possibly the future head of the constitutional body. A body which is based or not specifically guided by judgments of the court as the best way to resolve various issues, including political ones. In the long meeting you had with the Circle of Independent Senators, I asked you a question about the proposal that the current Ombudsman Adam Bodnar submitted to the court to suspend the implementation of the decision on the implementation of the equity rights of PKN Orlen in Poland Press. At the same time, the court suspended the enforcement of this decision until the court decided on the agreement of the President of the OKiK to concentrate and take over this company by Orlen. In this meeting, I asked you about your position on this matter, whether or not you would withdraw this application from the court. You replied that you did not know this conclusion, and as you will know, you will be able to make your point on this matter. That's when I asked you to get acquainted. It has been two days and, as I have declared, I repeat this question in the plenary room, taking as a good coin what you said that you did not want to engage politically after any choice and that you did not want to be a spokesman for the government and the citizens. It's obvious here that if you respect the will of your predecessor... Anyway, what you said in your interview, saying that you value Adam Bodnar's accomplishments, and you prefer to focus on the future rather than the past. I repeat the question: will you respect the request made by the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar by allowing the independent court to decide whether or not to take a political decision on this matter Because it will be because of the nature of the decision to be taken by the court? Will you decide that the case should be settled by an independent court which will make a substantive decision, other than suspicions of participation in a political dispute? And I ask for a brief answer: yes, I will leave this motion in court to be decided by an independent judge or not, I will withdraw this motion. We both know that this is a brief conclusion. I'm familiar with him, too. I'm sure two days made it possible for you to read it and answer the simple question: will you leave this motion, or will you withdraw it as a possible ombudsman?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u118	In accordance with the principle of continuing the office's work or with good practice there will be no mass withdrawal of the Ombudsman's applications, which does not mean that in every case I will uphold such requests. In the vast majority of cases there will certainly be a continuation. As for this motion, I didn't find it, so I can't relate to it in detail. But as much as my media knowledge allows me, and according to what you yourself have said, this is a political proposal, and I told you that the Ombudsman should act outside of politics, he should not stand up. neither on the government's side nor on the opposition's side. And here I am going back to the question you asked the senator, Marshal Michael Kaminski. There are two important constitutional values that are important to me too. This is media pluralism and freedom of speech. In both of these cases, as ombudsman, I will seek to ensure that this pluralism is as large as possible. However, I would like to point out to you, Mr Senator, that, for 30 years, the Ombudsman's office, as far as I know, has not been involved in this kind of intervention. Were such actions taken in the situation of media concentration by the Polish Press group? Were such actions taken in a situation where the concentration was not limited to ownership issues but was of a world view? The spokesmen...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u119	Mr President, that was a question of this particular proposal. You confirmed you didn't get to know him. I'm closing that question. I'll have the Senator's corrigendum corrected. There'll be more questions coming up.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u120	The corrigendum concerns 2 cases. I didn't ask you about the various applications that the spokesperson led, I asked you about the particular one. Nor did I say that the proposal is political in nature, but that your decision will be political in nature if you withdraw this proposal. Because if you don't withdraw it, the decision will be made by an independent court. And if you withdraw it, you will be prevented from making a decision in this case by an independent court. Well, you're gonna make that decision as an ombudsman. [[The Ombudsman Bartłomiej Wróblewski, appointed by the Sejm: First of all, this is...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u121	Mr President, in the Senate, he gives the floor every time a marshal. Well, so far I've turned a blind eye. There are further questions in room 217. Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Ambassador, I have a question for you. We already know that, in the light of the judgments of the Strasbourg Court, so-called. Judges elected to the Constitutional Tribunal are not actually judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. I would therefore like to ask you whether, if you refer a case to the Constitutional Tribunal and President Julia Przyłębska to adjudicate, she will determine the so-called. We already know that these judgments will be charged, let us refer to this as a legal defect, an irregularity related to the formation of the Tribunal, or whether you will not pay attention to it and whatever the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal will be, you will leave your applications for consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u123	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u124	I believe that the Ombudsman must exercise all constitutional competence and must also refer applications to the Constitutional Court. It is not yet clear what will be the future of this case in the European Court of Human Rights. Perhaps the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government will decide to request a review of the case by the Grand Chamber of the Tribunal. This is to some extent similar, in any case in some respects, to another well-known case before the European Court of Human Rights, Lautsi v Italy. Then the ruling of the Chamber was amended by the Grand Chamber of the Court, and the same aspect appeared here. Namely, the European Court of Human Rights is a court which rules on the rights and freedoms of an individual, although it has no competence to interfere with the constitutional systems of the States Parties to the Convention. I didn't read that sentence. I only know it from certain shortcuts. I don't know what the government's position on this matter will be, but I think a request should be made for re-examination. If the Ombudsman resigns from instruments such as applications to the Constitutional Tribunal, it significantly limits its capacity to act. There are many cases where the question arises as to whether the provisions of the law or other normative acts are incompatible with the Constitution. This concerns hundreds or thousands of cases, so the Ombudsman has not only the right, but also the obligation to use this instrument.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u125	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Marshal Moravian-Staneck.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Members, I have three questions for you, short questions. First. Should the State support the in vitro availability of inefficient couples? Is this part of the right to health protection? Second question. Teenagers are at risk of venereal diseases and unwanted pregnancy. Do you think that in such a situation we should rely on our parents and their knowledge, or should we count on school and sexual education activities here? What is more important: the right to raise children according to their beliefs or the right to health protection? And the third question. As ombudsman, will you uphold the complaints made by the current ombudsman Adam Bodnar to the administrative courts regarding resolutions against LGBT ideology? In 4 cases, the Ombudsman won, in 6 cases the courts dismissed complaints, but cases are still pending before the Supreme Administrative Court. What is your position on these matters? Will you support this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u127	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u128	Thank you very much. From a constitutional point of view, in vitro methods are, at least in direction, constitutionally compatible, although, of course, for many people they are ethically and morally controversial. So here, as far as legality is concerned, I don't see any major problem. Of course, the issue is that embryos should not be destroyed because they are also subject to legal protection, as the Court of Justice of the European Union said in the case of Brüstle v Greenpeace. The second point is the right to raise children according to their own beliefs versus the right to health protection. I don't think the conflict between these things has always been resolved in the same way. Everything depends on what a particular case is about. Undoubtedly, the right to raise children according to their own beliefs is an absolutely fundamental right, precisely such a legal one, i.e. its constitutional rank is high. The right to health is one of the second or even third-generation rights, and there is no such high status in the hierarchy of constitutional rights and freedoms. As far as the subject is concerned, education policy is a matter of political decisions, not legal decisions. It is only important to respect the right of parents to be brought up according to their own beliefs. I think there are schools in Poland, e.g. private schools, where such activities are likely to take place, of course, are held with parental consent. The third point about LGBT zones is that it's a bag of things. What is mediaally called the issue of LGBT zones concerns very different resolutions of various local authorities. If these resolutions are specific to the article. 18 and other provisions of the Constitution, and in fact concern the so-called. family cards, although they are also different in nature and content, there are no constitutional obstacles here, moreover, this is a development of constitutional rules. But, Senator, if there were any content in this type of file or any other file that would violate the right to privacy, honor, good name, from the article. Forty-seven constitutions, I will certainly respond in such matters, because there is no reason for fellow citizens, regardless of their preferences, their personal life decisions... to restrict their rights in this respect, which is constitutionally protected.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u129	Thank you very much. That's how we ran out of questions. Thank you very much, sir. [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Sławomir Rybicki will be the first to speak. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, once again, the Senate will, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution's powers, decide on the election of an ombudsman. I have a specific déjà vu, because once again we will decide whether this important office will include an active politician, a representative of the ruling party of Law and Justice, this time Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski. By rejecting Minister Piotr Wawrzyk's candidacy three months ago, we said from this place that we do not have our consent to choose this important role of the ruling party, the person who is co-responsible must be made clear by his actions or omissions, through the choices made, by creating a bad law for destroying the democratic acquis of Poland. Today, the Member from this speaker spoke about his achievements, spoke about important actions for the protection of human rights and the citizen. And I will remind you of a few facts about your political activities, which you have not mentioned, and which, in our opinion, exclude you as a good ombudsman. Because in this case, for three months, not much has changed. You've changed the candidate and the legal environment has changed a little bit, which I'm going to talk about. The Democratic majority in the Senate will not support a person who represents a power camp, a ruling party that violates the rule of law, disassembling a three-fold division of power, in fact a pillar of a democratic rule of law, guaranteeing respect for civil rights and freedoms. We will not support a person who is co-responsible for the extraordinary legal chaos in Poland, for the enslavement by the camp of most democratic institutions of the rule of law by their stubbornness, as in the Polish People's Republic, the prosecution, the Court, the Supreme Court, the public media, I could mention here for a long, long time, because your co-ownership for the operation of the camp of power is obvious. These actions, which is paradoxical, undermine the guarantees of citizens' rights and freedoms in Poland. And the examples? Well, there's a lot of them. I'll talk about the ones you didn't mention. Limiting the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. The liquidation of the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal, so important from the point of view of the protection of civil rights, of the Court, which has ceased to perform its constitutional and systemic function, whose judgments we already know for sure are challenged not only by the Polish legal world, but also by the European Court of Human Rights, because it concluded that the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal issued in the composition of judges of doubles are not judgments of the legal court and are therefore simply illegal. And there's one thing that's going on here. a ruling which concerns, for example, the right to assembly or several others, also very important in terms of your interest in matters, namely the prohibition of abortion or the unconstitutional shortening of the term of office of the President-in-Office, Professor Adam Bodnar. Your shared responsibility, as a doctor of legal sciences, for this legal chaos is particularly important. Unless you don't think you're an accessory to this chaos. And that's only worse for assessing your activities. You represent a party of power that forcefully violates the principle of freedom of assembly by launching, or actually using the entire apparatus of the state, an entire apparatus of repression to harass and prosecute protestors in the streets of Polish cities, including defenceless women, who are often standing in defence of civil rights and freedoms. You have created a law that restricts citizens' rights to privacy by uncontrollable surveillance and continuous expansion of the powers of special services which, under the pretext of combating terrorism, use without particular control wiretapping and observation of citizens. And that also affects human rights. You represent a government camp, which manages fear and divides citizens into better and worse, a camp whose representatives and subordinate media use the language of hatred, contempt and exclusion in the public space, which consequently leads to growth in Poland, which is reported by statistics on national, religious, sexual orientation and even political views. Here I will remind you of the murder of President Paweł Adamowicz. Finally, you are an influential representative of the ruling party, a Member of Law and Justice, a political camp that carries out an unprecedented attack on women's rights, imposing a total ban on abortion, restricting access to emergency contraception and sexual education. We hear threats that you are attempting to terminate the anti-violence convention. High Senate, close to the ideally governing, conservative think tank Jagiellonian Club, famous for its sympathy to the power camp! here no one should question this, in the published article he wrote, quote, that it was not ad personam, better Wróblewski in hand than the dream spokesperson on the roof. How do you interpret this text? I think that everyone will interpret it in their own way, but it seems to me that the matter is quite simple: either we agree to a candidate, a party candidate proposed by the camp, or the governing camp will find a method The Senate doesn't approve of this. We will not agree that the Senate, in accordance with its powers, cannot express its opinion on this matter. There is no room for such rotten compromises in matters relating to civil rights and freedoms. The Democratic majority in the Senate does not agree to stubbornness, marginalization, submission of this important office to the power camp in Poland. Poland needs a spokesperson who will defend the peaceful demonstrators, beaten and detained women who are being prosecuted by the apparatus. Well, that's a shame. Poles expect a spokesman to be the person who will defend the free media taken over by the power-dependent companies. You call this a pluralisation of the media market, and this is an action based on the Putinian or Hungarian model for the acquisition of free media by the state. The access of citizens to reliable, true information is a constitutional right. The Ombudsman should take this on his shoulders as an important task. We need a spokesperson who, like Adam Bodnar, will proceed to proceedings pending before the European Court of Human Rights on the side of the repressed judges, Tuleyi, Żurek, Yuszczyszyn and perhaps many others whose state is pursuing their independent stand. We need such a spokesperson in Poland at the moment. I'm afraid so. Poland needs a spokesperson who will stand on the side of the weaker, excluded, despised, oppressed by the authorities for political views, a spokesman who will be independent and credible, also because of his current attitude and activity, Mr President. Poland needs a spokesperson who will have the courage to oppose power and, in particular, an authority that has authoritarian aspirations which does not respect civil rights and freedoms. I'll say it again because I said it three months ago when we decided as the High House to elect a Minister of the Government of Law and Justice. That these are proposals in which one can find simple provocations, arrogance of power towards democratic standards, values and principles that accompany democratic societies and states. High Izbo, the Senators of the Civic Coalition will not agree to the appointment of Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski as ombudsman. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u131	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't going to speak today like I didn't last time, but you were. I was a little provoked by the MP. And before I say what I think of yours in a moment, sir, I must make two reservations. Firstly, I believe that every majority, in accordance with the rules, has the right to fill any office of people who, in fulfilling certain criteria, correspond to this majority in terms of worldview. And in this respect, I have no objection to you. Except these people must have such a property, fleeting, but palpable, which positions them as people who have shown with their whole lives that they understand what their future function is in its essence. Secondly, I would like to assure you that none of what I'm about to say is personal. As Mario Puzo put it beautifully in his godfather, this is nothing personal, this is business, which in free translation for our discussion will mean: it's nothing personal, it's caring for citizens. You invited me and Senator Bosacki to a meeting we went to as men of dialogue. Audiatur et altera pars. this sounded in our conversation, which means we also need to listen to the other side, and since I behind Tuwim think that this is not about the record or vinyl, I agreed to listen to you two days ago. You used the Latin verba volant, scripta manent, or words, during our conversation, and what is written remains. So I'm gonna stick to Latin in our conversation tonight. After our meeting, like many young people, and you're 10 years younger than me, you tweeted in which you suggested some degree of acceptance or understanding for your candidacy. Verba volant, scripta manent. From this conversation, not what happened between us, but what you wrote will remain in public space and hence my speech. In addition, you stated that the possible denial of you and the compromise that you embody today was an anti-state attitude. I had to respond for a few days to the quite agitated reactions of my constituents, so I will allow the honourable Member to react and not be overly sensitive in the name of my well-being. Well, you have confused my general friendly approach to people with the absurd thesis of accepting you as an ombudsman. The question to be asked is, who explained it to you, suggested that you could become an ecumenical candidate, a compromise candidate. I don't want to offend the man who told you that we would consider this offer of yours to be. So, after Mr. Wołodyjowski, who was cutting Charlamp in fire and sword, I will say this: a simple man I am, but so much in Latin I know, that if I wanted to call him a fool, God forbid, I only know that I would say a kind of male stultus, not a stulta or a stultum of a kind of feminine or nude. So, thanks to your candidacy, Doctor, after 40 years, I know why I studied Latin. Although I have a completely different view from you, but it is a very different view of abortion, I will not see your greatest weakness here, although the very same thing really crosss you as a candidate for compromise on the RPO, God forbid, not as a man, because each of us can have some views and defend them. But as a lawyer, something else hurts me. Well, your parliamentary application to the Constitutional Tribunal for Mrs Przyłębska's abortion lasted several years. In theory, I might enjoy it personally, but I look at it as a lawyer and as a stateman. What did you do to point out that the Constitutional Tribunal may, in fact, consist of right-wing, center, left-wing judges, but should not consist of printers of commands? From the servants, bending procedures until they're broken? You didn't do anything. Prof. Wyrembak, with similar views and views to yours, alarmed the public, pointing to the unlawful actions of Mrs. Przyłębska. I do not remember your speeches with a demand to discipline Mrs Przyłębska or to call for the proper functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[The Ombudsman Bartłomiej Wróblewski, appointed by the Sejm: Please look.]] You couldn't bring it up on your own. So how will you act in behalf of others? [[The Ombudsman Bartłomiej Wróblewski, appointed by the Sejm: Please look.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Do not interrupt the senator.]] I didn't say you didn't do anything. I didn't. [[The Ombudsman Bartłomiej Wróblewski, appointed by the Sejm: Look well...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Dear Members, this is not polemics. Dear Members, I would very much like to ask you to continue with the senators. Thank you very much.]] And that's exactly what I think you lack, that you don't have the impartiality that every man, especially a lawyer, can say in the name of the rules non possumus. We can't. We will not cross the border, in the name of the Constitution and in the name of a legal order that should not be exceeded. Where were you when your coalition colleagues repeatedly came in with unconstitutional changes in the justice system, which today are causing chaos in the judiciary, in the national prosecutor's office, the court register, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court? After all, these changes have a disastrous impact on citizens. The lengthening of the court's work is catastrophic. And where was your voice of reason, consensus and agreement at that time? You spoke today about opening new offices in Poland, leaving the spokesperson in the field. Where have you been, sir, when the government you were in the back room has been reducing or blocking the Ombudsman's budget for five years, despite the introduction of an emergency complaint and the duplication of responsibilities? How did you vote when the Senate increased its budget for the Ombudsman? And it has nothing to do with politics. You have blocked thousands of citizens' access to an emergency complaint because there is no one to handle tens of thousands of applications. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time is running out.]] Did you speak and then say non possumus? I didn't notice. You didn't say anything. Today you come with an olive branch, crying: pax, pax among Christians. But you voted for raising the budget for the IPN. In a few months, we'll be picking the head of the IPN. Haven't you mistaken the institution you're running for? In your life story in public space, your alpinist achievements and the capture of the Crown of Earth sounded strong. This is a genuinely great success, which I really, really respect, admire and envy. This is unique. But what does that bring to our discussion and your candidacy? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] Nothing! I started exactly eleven after and there was polemics. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: But here...]] Please? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Secretary here has...]] Okay, that's the last sentence. Human rights is a set of rules, national and international. The Ombudsman is a man who should uphold these rules. We have the recent position of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg on the understudy at the Constitutional Court, the TSEU criticising the neo-KRS and the changes in the Supreme Court. I will say again: I have not seen you present in the space of public discussion and taking a firm stand on this subject, and for me this is important. I believe that a man who does not feel that it is inherently related to human rights should not be a defender of human rights in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u133	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u134	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak here as a senator of the Republic of Poland, as a woman and as a doctor, because this office discussed today affects basically all these subjects. I listened carefully to your self-presentation and in the first half of your speech you almost convinced me, because I am always open to people of science, well-educated, to people who are experts in their field. You referred to the article. 208 of the Constitution and of the fact that the role of Ombudsman is to uphold the freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution and other laws. But it's not her, and it can't be a personal worldview agenda. That is not my consent as Senator of the Republic of Poland. Our candidate today, Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, whose candidacy we are considering, is undoubtedly a political candidate of the PiS and could certainly be a spokesman for this party, but certainly not a spokesperson for civil rights. If the Senate accepts this candidacy, then the Ombudsman will be active politicians, in addition responsible for the stubbornness of the judiciary and for the biggest protests in the Third Republic, because as co-author of the application he led thousands of Polish women to the Constitutional Tribunal on the streets, in the time of the COVID-19 pandemic. Will such a spokesman care about the rights of women in this country, Polek? I have great doubts about the answer to that question. I do not want us to have an ombudsman in Poland who will be politicized. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that only in autocratic systems is such a function politicized to create appearances of caring for human rights, while decision-makers only pursue their party and particular goals. It's always at the expense of the individual. We must be aware that if the new ombudsman is dependent on politicians, he will only be a silent ombudsman who cares only for the facade of civil rights, for which authoritarianism will unhindered. This is what I fear as a Polish woman, as a doctor and as a senator of the Republic of Poland. I repeat: the Ombudsman cannot be ideological or political. It should not be a politician at all, but an environmental person supported by citizens, regardless of the beliefs of the governing party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u135	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, In what I'm going to say, some things are going to happen again, but we're here representing ourselves, and we'd like to. I'm sure all of us are speaking. Speak on your behalf. Well, one of the fundamental civil rights is the right to a court, but not to every court, any court, but to an objective court, honest, independent, independent of any executive authority, as well as from a legislative authority. This is also true of the Constitutional Court, and we would like judges with high professional and moral authority to sit there. And these are matters which are extremely important also for the Ombudsman, because the Ombudsman, representing citizens whose rights are violated, resorts very often to the judicial authority and to the Court. Therefore, in situations where these fundamental principles of independence, competence, independence are violated, the Ombudsman must take the floor, he must protest. And it has nothing to do with politics. That's the core of his mission, his ability to defend civil rights. With regard to the honourable Member, we have not heard his legal opposition in very many situations in the last six years, i.e. since 2015, when the party to which he belongs is in power. We did not hear this opposition when Prime Minister Szydło was incredibly arrogant. And unconstitutional, of course. She refused to publish the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. And yet you, Mr President, are not a private Member of the Law and Justice. He is not such a gray Member who can often say: well, I voted in favour because there is such a party discipline, I had doubts, but I have to submit somehow. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're, I'd say, a member of the First League of Law and Justice. You were the author, co-author, rapporteur, representative of applicants for a number of laws that shaped our justice and civil rights system and, unfortunately, They broke the constitution, so you're directly responsible for it. You have repeatedly argued, you have argued, which is to say that you were the herald of this change, which is called In quotation marks already A good change. In June 2016, as an applicant's representative, you were very active in promoting a law aimed directly at paralyzing the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal, then under the leadership of Prof. Rzepliński. The point was that the actions which were then directed to the non-constitutional actions of the Government of Law and Justice could not be dealt with at least until, as a result of the expiry of its term of office, the majority in that body, including the Court, would win through its nominates Law and Justice. And when you presented this law, you said this: "These changes are the result of our conviction that the work of the Court needs to be improved." Well, Mr. Member, it was either shocking cynicism or some gross incompetence, and you just didn't realize what it was leading to. It doesn't matter whether it's a case or not, we'll consider it. This disqualifies you as a candidate for the Ombudsman. In May 2017, as an equally active representative of the applicants, as rapporteur, you argued to everyone that a law was very good, which allowed the Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziobrze, to remove the presidents of the general courts, of course, those uncomfortable, independent presidents, in order to direct those who would be willing to put their ear to his expectations. And then you had an argument, too. Namely, you said that exchanges of these presidents are needed because we are seeking to speed up the examination of court cases. Well, I have to say, the questions I just asked about cynicism or ignorance can be repeated exactly the same way in this case and with the same conclusion. By the way, I will say that the average time taken to deal with court cases in Poland in 2015. And here's a note: I quote the data of the Ministry of Justice, so that it was not that I chose them from unknown sources, that is the official data of 4.2 months. In 2019 it was 5.8 months, but it was supposed to be acceleration. In 2020 the pandemic jumped to 7 months. These are the results of Minister Ziobra's work. Minister Ziobro has deceived his colleagues with this bill and with his various actions, he has simply deceived you because that is the result of his actions. But the man who promoted this bill, who claimed to speed it up, should then protest very actively, should demand an explanation. None of this happened, of course. On the 26th of April, quite recently, you gave an interview to the journal Rzeczpospolita, as part of the self-promotion to which you are, of course, entitled. There's a lot of yours there, too. Some of you repeated it here, but there were more of them there. Some of which, I'll be honest with you, discourages you from voting, but not all of them I'm going to discuss here, there's no time, I'm just going to focus on two. Well, a journalist at some point asks you: maybe you had to reach for constitutional rules in the fight against the pandemic, namely emergency conditions? Well, of course, we remember this situation and we know about the whole dispute, we know very well that this state of natural disaster the government did not want to introduce for political, purely political reasons. And what do you say to that? You answer, "If there was no law." That is, the law on the control of infectious diseases, the answer would be obvious, yes. With specific provisions for this type of threat, they should rather be used. What does that answer mean? This answer means that the government was doing everything right: it was based on the law on the fight against infectious diseases. And yet... [[Very good, then.]] Senator, I need to explain something to you... [[No, I'm fine.]] Oh, that's okay? But listen to me. This law does not allow the government to prohibit the activities of any workplace or industry. You just can't do that. This bill doesn't allow you to ban going out on the street or allow you to go just to the store or just to the pharmacy. More: this bill didn't even allow for a mask order. It was not until September that this matter was finally settled. And proof of that are judgments of this time, quite numerous. The courts remove the penalties imposed on citizens, on entrepreneurs for this very reason, stating clearly that all of this was unlawful. If a natural disaster were introduced, yes, of course, it could be done. And now the Member says that everything is okay, it was this law that was a sufficient basis. What does that mean? I mean, Mr President, you approved civil rights violations, you just approve. And why do you approve? That's because you're squeezed by this party corset where you're moving. You can't even get a millimeter out of this corset, even in such an obvious case, when we have judgments when you could answer this journalist: well, it was really debatable. At least that's it. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time.]] I'm almost done. No. Everything was fine. And second question. This is the last question from this interview. It's about the budget. Senator Comforter talked about it here, so I'm not going to develop it. Of course, you have always voted in favour of budget cuts, against increasing the budget, against increasing the budget for field troops, which you have now said you would like to call them. It's just hypocrisy. But there's something else you're saying. And here you even mentioned it, so unintentionally, but in this interview it is clearly written that: I can see the new offices in Olsztyn, Lublin and Poznań. Well, I was wondering why, because you listed Poland as north-eastern, north-western, south-eastern. Where's southwest Poland? There isn't. It's clearly missing. Why these 3? Well, you, Mr. President. We know that he tried to convince a lot of senators here to vote for you. And that's your good law. You talked to them, called them, etc., etc. But I think you've seen some senators, mostly those who aren't somehow connected to opposition parties, opposition clubs in the Sejm, and you've decided that they're maybe so much easier objects. Well, we can see: Olsztyn, this is Senator Lidia Staroń, Lublin, this is Senator Jacek Bury, and Poznań, this is Senator Libicki, who, as you know... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] ...about his hesitations in public. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] Okay, okay, okay, okay, I'm almost done. Well, Mr President, this is offensive to these people, because it suggests that you believe that these people can simply be bought with such promises. It's a kind of political corruption. It's very sad. And the last sentence. You quoted the vows. That's where we're talking about obeying the Constitution. You haven't observed this constitution in the last six years. It's safe to assume you want to change. Well, there is a beautiful fairy tale about an ugly duckling that turns into a beautiful swan, but it doesn't apply in this case. You, Mr President, in my opinion, have many advantages, but you are not fit for an ombudsman. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u137	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A lot's been said. I want to focus on two aspects: the independence of the Ombudsman and the conservative tradition, which I understand the candidate referred to, suggesting some kind of identification with this tradition. Line one. Independence is a prerequisite for a meaningful functioning of the Ombudsman not only in Poland but also in all civilized countries. Because both this institution and the control of constitutionality of laws, the extension of judicial control over administrative decisions or forms of participatory democracy is a response to the expansion of the state, to a state that is after the expansion stage. European countries experienced a huge increase in their competences, resources in the first half of the 20th century. Such institutions have been created in response to this process and they do not make sense if there is no quality of independence. And that's the key. Because independent Poland had spokespersons with different ideological profiles. The Ombudsman was Prof. Andrzej Zoll, a man very close to me in terms of his views, who advocated the protection of life, for the 1993 legislation, but there were also spokesmen with social democratic or progressive sympathies. Nevertheless, we have always dealt with independent spokesmen. That's the key. There's a particular kind of dishonesty here. Because it's a suggestion that you'll become independent after you choose, i.e. when Jarosław Kaczyński is no longer in control. It's not fair. I already prefer Law and Justice politicians who defend the programming line after 2015. Independence is confirmed in actions, in decisions. And under no circumstances can we underestimate what happened in Poland after 2015, the destruction of the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal and the independence of the judiciary. This is not, as you said, political controversy, but this is an extremely important issue, not a matter of government relations. The opposition, only a state issue, is extremely important from the point of view of citizens' rights and interests. This test is a negative test. And the second aspect of the conservative tradition in Poland. I want to say that I identify with this tradition, but it was a tradition that was particularly sensitive about the independence of constitutional justice. The first projects for the establishment of the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland in the Second Republic of Poland were submitted by conservatives. The only group of the democratic opposition, which made it clear that the reconstruction of the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal, was the Movement of Young Poland. Earlier, of course, in the documents of Solidarity... If we looked at the main decisions of the 1990s, we would see that they are growing to a large extent from the Chadite trend in the Solidarity. I mean. the wide range of protection of religious freedom, the synthesis of Christian freedom and culture present in the preamble... Well, this is what one of the most outstanding theorists of European integration, Professor Weiler pointed out, but the strength of this was that the promotion of this value was linked to the protection of the rule of law, to the promotion of constitutional democracy, to the rule of law as protecting individual freedoms. What happened after 2015 is not a conservative tradition, it is a break with a conservative tradition. It's a Jacobin tradition. It's a conspiracy of a conservative tradition. Also a liberal tradition. Because these 2 trends were most closely involved, much stronger than the left, in defence and in promoting the independence of constitutional justice. One can say: these are doctrinal and historical considerations. But I'm gonna appeal to modern analysis. Why is defending constitutional democracy, the independence of the judiciary, the certainty of the rules of law so important? Because as it will be destroyed, no values will survive, conservative, social-democratic, or liberal. Because arbitrary power, as Roman Rybarski wrote in the 1930s, has to do with it that it eliminates the sustainability of the rules, that there is only power without borders. Therefore, we have the right to expect that the Ombudsman will not only be someone who will guarantee the public, the citizens' independence, but also someone who will promote the reconstruction of constitutional democracy. Because individual freedom and fundamental values do not exist without the independence of the judiciary and without constitutional democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u139	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Members, Professor, Nominate of the Seym for the Ombudsman! I am very moved and grateful for the speech of my very venerable previous speaker, Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski. Because he put in an extremely precise way the essence of our debate today. And it is not, as some of your supporters would like, as evidenced by the previous statement by Senator Ujazdowski, part of this absolutely valid in a normal, liberal society debate between the progress camp and the conservative camp. This debate takes place in every country of our civilization circle. Its focus may vary, its course may vary, but it is taking place in the United States, it is taking place in Italy, it is taking place in Ireland, in Poland, maybe the least in our neighbours with very atheistic qualities. But the debate with you, Professor, is not a debate with a conservative, it is not a debate with a Catholic who is attached to his values, to the teaching of his Church, which everyone who does not share these values must, and not only should, respect. But today we are discussing with you, Professor, as one of the co-architects of the political and legal system after 2015, the essence of which I will stress: the essence of which was to question the traditional Europeans' civil rights. Proof that I am telling the truth is the fundamental reason for the dispute between the government of Beata Szydło, the government of Matthew Morawiecki and the European Union. Because this fundamental problem, this fundamental dispute between our government and the European Union does not concern Polish national interests, our borders, money for Poland or any security guarantees. This dispute concerns the fact that the European Union must defend Poles against their government. That is because this government, whose policy you have co-created, is completely different from the whole of Europe. Conservative, social-democracy, progressive, more or less national, considers human rights. And that is why, Professor, we cannot accept you as a candidate for the Ombudsman. Because we would have forced you to fight the system you co-created. And that would, in my opinion, be inhospitable to you and ineffective from the point of view of your role as an ombudsman. Professor, Mr President, I do not want to address your participation, however, through a proposal to the Constitutional Court, in the destruction of what you probably also do not consider a compromise, but what has been considered as a 1993 compromise in Poland. This compromise and what Mr.Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski just mentioned, and more broadly: the relations of the state with the Church in Poland built after 1989 and this is seen in the example of abortion, but not only It was a relationship built on special advantages, a particular role of the Church and its values in the Polish political, social, but also legal system. And here it was supposed that this arrangement, very beneficial to people with conservative beliefs, will be challenged in Poland by the camp of progress. The left will come and say: we no longer want this system, we want a more liberal system. And here, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015, the Alliance of the Church and Law and Justice questioned this compromise, but from the right. Here are the Polish conservatives who said... This model, which was so beautifully described by Mr Kazimierz Ujazdowski, is a model of built Poland, very shifted towards Christian values, unique on the scale of the European Union and in general of the West. The model of the relationship between the state and the Church was challenged by the Church itself, because you said that you have not enough power, not enough money, not enough immunity, not enough of everything that Catholics and their Church have in Poland. And that is why, Mr. and Mr. Professor, we are criticizing you for your application to the Constitutional Tribunal. Not because you have ideas that make you believe that the embryo is the same as the people sitting in this room. These are your beliefs. As you know perfectly well, not all Christian denominations think so. I'm sure he does. The Catholic Church is teaching one of the most important Christian churches. This is beyond dispute: you have the right to these views and I will always defend your right to express them. But what else is an attempt to record your views in the criminal code. And that's what we're protesting, and I'd like it to sound very clear. Not against this, Professor, that you consider abortion to be evil, because I think that the overwhelming majority of those sitting in this Chamber regard abortion as evil, just as we consider divorces to be evil, and we do not want them to be delegated, just as we believe it to be unethical to betray their spouses, and we do not want marriage betrayal to be punished in the criminal code, for example. Prison. That's the difference between us. But this difference, Professor, seems to me to be preventing you from acting as an ombudsman. Because someone who's so attached What does he have absolute right to do? In order to teach his Church that he wants to move this teaching into a penal code so that in a situation where this Church does not cope with the fact that the faithful follow what he very noblely teaches them and wants to buy such a prosthetic police baton... Well, then, Professor, we just don't like it. And that's our argument. He doesn't mean you're a man of deep faith, and you're a conservative, because I'm pointing out This is a thing that should be treated with the highest respect in Poland, just as every belief, every belief and every belief or lack of our citizens. Professor, recent weeks have shown that the issue of civil rights, the matter of the rule of law today is not just about ideological discussions. She too, along with the ratification of the European Plan for Reconstruction, will gain an additional dimension, because we know that the money that the government that we are about to receive from the European Union today will only be given if we are a law-abiding country, and also because of the decisions that you have made as a Member, we are in dispute with the European Union today, which can end up losing this money for us. Therefore, today's debate on civil rights, the discussion about how Europe sees our legislation, is a discussion about whether Poles will get or will not get the money from the recovery plan. That is why, Professor, Mr President, this debate is so important. I ask that you do not view this voice, which will be a voice against you, as a voice resulting from personal aversion or any hatred of you. It's not my intention. Moreover, I must express my appreciation for your culture of expression, which we have just experienced, as well as your absolutely impressive legal education. And, without irony, I can say it's a shame that such a qualified man serves such a bad cause. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Breja.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u142	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr. Speaker, Mr. Professor! No one has caused a social conflict as deep as you do. The master began with beautiful words about you wanting to build bridges. Mr. Ambassador, with the help of the TNT, no bridges will be built. You were the author of the proposal, which led to a huge conflict, a conflict that we saw on the streets of many Polish cities and the smallest towns. The conflict that led to your conclusion has far-reaching consequences for women. What is a woman supposed to do who, like one of the women said today, feels like she's gonna be a living coffin for her child? What's a woman supposed to do who knows she's gonna have a baby who's gonna die when she's born or right after she's done, usually in the sixth, seventh... She, knowing that this child is terminally ill, has every 5 days or every 6 days to go to KTG, for ultrasound, and to see if this child is already dead, or has it started to die? These are the consequences of the most sadistic abortion law in this part of Europe and one of the most stringent in the world, more stringent than in Iran, Mr President. What should a woman expect twins to do, one of whom is about to die? She could save the other twins by the appointment of the first, but today she is deprived of that right. Today it means a death sentence for this child who could survive. These are the consequences of not building bridges, but of their arson, and of the arson of Poland. You said you'd be on the side of the citizens. You did not have good faith in defending civil rights at the time of these strikes and the very aggressive, forceful driving of protesting women and supporting men. There was no intervention or activity of yours, your protest, when the anti-terrorists beat the protesters with telescopic batons when Catherine Augustinek, present here in the Senate a few months ago, was harassed, transported, followed by the police, completely unfoundedly. You weren't active when one of the girls was broken when the other girls were sparkling. There was no activity of yours when one of the bandits beat up a woman in Wroclaw. The prosecution applied for arrest, but as a result of political pressure, this request was withdrawn. You've presented a beautiful program. These are beautiful words about the office building bridges, independent, about your transformation. I do not deny you the right to make such a transformation so that you are a politician independent of the President of the PiS. I would very much like to believe that, but what it looked like in practice, what it looked like in the practice of your pro-constitution... Because you said you'd be a pro-constitution politician and you'd only speak the language of the Constitution and the laws. Let's verify those words. Are words like air, or are words worth doing? The Supreme Court, vote on 20 July 2017 on the strong expiry of the terms of office of the judges, the creation of the Disciplinary Chamber, voted in favour. On the muzzle bill, on the system of common courts, you also voted in favour of the Supreme Court. Jumping to the Constitutional Tribunal from the very beginning, 19 November 2015, you voted in favour. On 22 December 2015, you voted in favour of the paralyzing act of the Constitutional Tribunal. Finally, the December 2016 Act, the Constitutional Tribunal, the completion, the takeover by the Party of the PiS of the independent Constitutional Tribunal, you voted in favour. Civil rights are also the right to be independent of the party influence of the prosecutor's office. Unfortunately, in 2016, in January, you voted in favour of its politicisation, for the takeover of the prosecutor's office by a political party. You said so beautifully that you were opposed to surveillance. And the 2016 Surveillance Act? Let's see, it was January 2016. At that time, judicial review was limited and the use of very strong anti-Citizen instruments was extended. Unfortunately, you voted in favour. You said today that you were in favour of freedom of speech. Mr President, you voted in favour of the stubbornness of television and radio as early as December 2015, giving your colleague, the Minister of the Treasury, competence to take over management and supervisory boards. Then you voted. For the National Media Council that hit that system. This led to the purges, to the creation of a political baton from television and radio, a propaganda tube in which there is no sign of a public mission. You voted for the National Media Council. Citizens' rights are also the right to professional civil service. You voted for the bill to end the competitions. You said that you were a great supporter of very important civil law, i.e. rights of assembly. Let's see. Well, unfortunately, you voted for a law restricting citizens' right to assembly. We all remember strengthening the voivodship's competences and introducing institutions for cyclical gatherings. It was 2016, you voted in favour. Jumping to elections, i.e. a law that violates citizens' right to free elections, a law introducing Commissioners, strengthening the Minister of Home Affairs, a political factor in this whole free elections procedure. You voted in favour. Finally, I will remind you of the fact that modernity is the ability to change views. You're in favour of it being a less political institution. Mr PiS makes a declaration that he is capable of changing his views. Mr Pavłowicz, you voted in favour of both Mr Piotrowicz, Mr PiS and Mrs Krystyna Pawłowicz being elected to the Constitutional Court. I'd like to believe you'll change your mind, but I'm not convinced because I know how they behave at the Constitutional Court. I am afraid that what you have done with the Constitutional Tribunal and the National Court will happen to the Ombudsman's office, what you have done with the Supreme Court, what you have done with public media and many other institutions. The basis for civil rights is democracy. Your vote, the point by point here, was the arson of democratic institutions. Mr President, I do not deny your pleasant aparition or beautiful words, but I fear that these words contained more air than sincere intentions. A person who is a pyromaniac setting democracy on fire will not be a guardian of civil rights. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u143	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, If you don't mind, I'd like to begin by thanking you for personally reaching out to each of the senators, asking for the support of your candidacy. But in my reply I wrote to you that it would be easier for me to listen to the assurances that you have included in your information sent by e-mail, if not for six years of joint sitting in the Polish Parliament. Well, you're sitting on the benches of the law and justice party. I want to tell you right away, at the very beginning, that unfortunately you cannot act as an honorable ombudsman. You cannot be a spokesperson for civil rights and watch, from this very moment on, respect for citizens' rights by state institutions, because you have been actively involved in all the carefully planned actions of building a system that has brutally trampled on this protection. I also prepared a whole set of information about how you behaved during the vote on the laws mentioned by Senator Krzysztof Brejza. I'm not gonna say it again. You've been an active participant in all these activities. You have been an active participant in the consistent destruction of the democratic state and the security of its citizens. I'm just gonna go back to... Well, I lacked your brave words in defense of protesting women when they were treated with gas and clubs when their hands were broken when they were humiliated and trampled on their dignity. I didn't hear your voice. I will return for a moment to the thread that everyone is talking about because you have become the face of the sentence that has made Polish women hell. Women shouted it during protests, demonstrations that took place throughout Poland, even in the smallest cities and towns. For me it was cruel and false, because, as we all know, this application was submitted to the Constitutional Court of Julia Przylebska with premeditated intentions. You knew perfectly well what the judgment would be, what the judgment would be, I do not know what to call it. My doubts are that you made this request in 2017, but then, as a result of a political decision, the decision was not given. You knew you could lose the election. You did it after the election because you thought it would be quieter then that there would be more time for the next election. I want you to remember that this draconian political act of Polish women will never forget you. It's them, but they're not the only ones who don't want their spokesperson in you. And now a few words about what you assured us. These charges have already been filed in this courtroom today, but I'd like to say a few words about it. You said you wanted to be an ambassador to Polish families. Well, I'm begging you. If, God forbid, it happened that you would be an advocate of civil rights, don't take care of Polish families. Leave Polish families, mothers, wives, fathers and children alone. They're really doing great, and they don't need your shoes in their everyday lives. I'm asking you never to do that. You say you don't want to stand by the government or the opposition, but I don't know why you said that at all. You shouldn't think about it at all. You should immediately know that you will be standing... not even on the side of the citizens, but among the citizens, especially now that they have been facing the strongest work for a few years, the apparatus of the state which is harassing them for having a different opinion than the rulers and are not afraid to express it out loud. You also said that choosing you would be in the interests of the state and citizens. And I'll tell you, it would only be in the interests of law and justice. That's it, no unnecessary comment. And at the end of the day... In one of the last interviews, the honourable Member spoke. It's already been raised. That you are counting on us senators to risk creating a new, less political, and more pluralized institution of the Ombudsman based on dialogue. Well, I will tell him that my risk would be the risk of all the citizens who entrusted me with the mandate of the Senator of the Republic of Poland, and they forbade me from risking and forbade me to believe in anything that you have offered and that you have assured us of for some time. Unfortunately, you will not receive my vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u145	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski... [[Eva Matecka's still here.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ombudsman is an exceptional institution in the Polish legal order. Its overarching objective is to represent those who, as a result of a dispute with other authorities and structures of the State, remain without a chance unless they are accompanied by reliable and substantive support. The Ombudsman's credibility is also often supported by the citizens themselves, usually represented by independent non-governmental organisations acting pro publico bono, as we have seen not so long ago, against the candidacy of Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz as ombudsman. The Ombudsman shall not belong to a political party, trade union or conduct public activities incompatible with the dignity of that office. That's what Art says. 209 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In the light of this record, the display as a candidate of an active member of the PiS, a political party in whose hands the entire apparatus of the state, which is additionally conducive to extreme nationalist movements, is not only illegal, but is a dark grotesque family from Orwell's Distopy. Moreover, you, Professor, are responsible for the oppressive nature of the latest legislation as a co-initiator of the tightening of abortion law in Poland. You are a strong supporter of abortion bans in general, even when pregnancy is the result of rape. I therefore ask: how do such declarations of the Ombudsman's statutory duty to uphold the principle of equal treatment, the protection of freedom and human rights and the citizen's? Bringing women to legal recognition of humiliation and suffering It's a clear misrepresentation of this principle. Your conservative and fanatical attitude is de facto used to eliminate parts of these rights, not to defend them. Therefore, neither the broad public support nor even the will to act in the interests of all citizens speak for your candidacy as ombudsman. On the contrary, Professor, your conservativeism and ideological fanaticism can paradoxically lead to a reduction of civil rights in the name of private professed values even above the codified law. In addition, many of your public speeches, Professor, have shown in recent years that calling you ombudsman would in fact be an attempt to assassinate these rights. You cannot be our spokesperson, which is why I will vote against. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u147	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Dear fellow Senators! We are once again considering in this House the constitutional competence that we have, i.e. the approval of the candidate for the Ombudsman's office. The argument directory that has been laid out is basically unchangeable. What I liked about this debate was that even the opponents of the appointment of Dr. Bartłomiej Wróblewski as Ombudsman It's very motivating, for example. with his beliefs, his involvement in public life, his current profile, his world view, his views; very different arguments here fell In fact, they don't question one thing. It is about very good substantive legal preparation, education, fluent knowledge of 4 languages, foreign studies, human rights achievements, as well as some courage. And this courage expressed in the name of the weakest, for example, a famous request to the Constitutional Court was just proof that the candidate for an Ombudsman That's how I feel about it. The rights of all people, the weakest, the sickest, are being claimed. It was proof of that. A wave of heirlooms that met him after that. I am talking about October last year, after 22 October 2020. Whether under his apartment or in the form of various entries, it was extremely large, extremely large. And the level of aggression because he dared to have different views than others who believe that only right views show how great intolerance is in this regard. I would like to say that Dr. Bartłomiej Wróblewski is a brave man, a brave man as well as a man of the mountains. I do not know whether everyone in this House knows that he is the winner of the Crown of the World, that is, he has won all the highest peaks on all continents in the world. It is a very elite group of climbers, mountain climbers, Himalayans. In Poland it is several dozen people, on the scale of the world there are several hundred people who made such a feat. You have to have the courage, the courage, the self-denial, and certain personality traits that allow a person in extremely difficult conditions to face such challenges. I believe that in terms of substance preparation, it is difficult to question his achievements and knowledge, as well as the ability to dialogue, Mr.Kamiński emphasized this in his speech on the ability to talk. Please note that the Ombudsman's candidate expressed his willingness to meet with different political and social environments. He held a very large series of meetings, presented his views in the media, responded to the most common charges. He did it in a very good way. He did it in a way that shows that he is a person with great experience, a person with a word culture, a person with a culture of dialogue who can talk, although he does not have to share the views of those with whom he talks, which, in a way, I would say, is extremely cultural in relation to his opponents, whether they are ideal or have different political views. I think it is not good for the Ombudsman's office to become a hostage in the current political fight. And we are discussing less in this House... I'm not talking about the Seym because I'm not an MP. But in this House, we are less focused on substantive issues, on what Dr Bartłomiej Wróblewski said in his presentation about his vision of office in case the High House would approve this choice. And I think it was a very serious, substantive proposal on how to perform this office in pocovid times. After all, there are discussions on whether all the restrictions that have taken place due to this pandemic have not come too far into the issues of civil rights, economic freedoms and other matters that are widely known. And that is why I regret that the declarations that have been made and the announcements that have been related to them were primarily based on political criteria. It is known that after the 2019 elections, for the first time since the Senate was reborn in 1989, there is a situation that the majority of the Seym is not reflected in the Senate majority. We have for the first time in our political system 2 chambers of parliament, which in some way have to arrange co-abitation among themselves. It looks better once, sometimes worse, it looks different. That's the fact. And here we all learn, both representatives of the ruling camp and representatives of the opposition. I personally believe that it would be very damaging if this election had not been approved by the High House. I believe Dr. Bartłomiej Wróblewski is a good candidate for the Ombudsman. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u149	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mark Knocks.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I've been looking at everything Dr. Bartłomiej Wróblewski did for weeks, preparing for today's debate. I can see how much effort, how much goodwill, how much wisdom, how much tact he put in to convince the senate majority of his candidacy. I was hoping that today we would have in the Senate at least a substitute for the substantive discussion, the discussion that this particular candidate and candidate deserved for this particular, very important office in the constitutional system in Poland. Unfortunately, for the time being, I don't know which one in this term. This debate seems to make everyone aware that the Senate X term is really a House whose sole purpose is to fight everything that comes out of the Sejm, torpedoing all the best ideas and candidates that have gained the majority of the Sejm. You're just a total opposition, and nothing's gonna change that. Poles see it. This debate, in which we have heard so much about the Constitution, about the law, about the rule of law, is actually ridiculous, because you are currently doing everything you can to prolong, contrary to the Constitution, the ratification process of one of the most important European decisions taken in the face of one of the most difficult crisis situations facing the modern world. You are the last political group to set standards in the rule of law, constitutional compliance and state responsibility. This debate also shows what you have done all these years with the institution and with the ombudsman's office. The Ombudsman Adam Bodnar was the most one-sided, ideological and political spokesperson in the history of Polish democracy. To a great extent, you favored it and fueled all its behavior. And that's what you did in this House, in the Senate. In the Senate, Adam Bodnar was actually an additional senator of the Civic Coalition. You are the last environment that should talk about the standards that the Ombudsman should represent. Now I will refer to Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski's candidacy. We are dealing, as has been said many times, with a man who is well-prepared, well-educated, a man with a very large personal, intellectual, legal culture, a man with very high social, legal sensitivity, a great sensitivity to the problems of the weakest, excluded people, all these environments, all those areas where the Ombudsman's work should be focused. You often raise the question of politicising this candidacy. In fact, whether the Ombudsman is political or not, he decides when he covers the office and, using very strong constitutional guarantees, his independence, his independence, carries out that office. Adam Bodnar was not a member of a political party, and the politicization of his office will become history. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, thanks to his character, his decisions, also as a parliamentarian, his courage, his determination, very often also such insincerity in defending his views, has all the qualities that predispose him to be an independent and independent advocate of civil rights. I firmly believe that he will be such a spokesman and that he will finally restore his dignity to this office and begin to deal with what the Ombudsman is called to do. Because the Ombudsman is not from a political dispute in the Senate, he is not from ruling on constitutionality and unconstitutionality of laws, he is not from carrying in his hand the banner of leftist, liberal views. The Ombudsman is the one who insists on the weakest. This also requires knowledge, that is what you need legal instruments, that is what you need to know about reality. And it's all you have, Mr. Spokesman, it's all yours to guarantee. Thank you, Doctor, for making such an effort to convince the senators of the Senate. You didn't have to convince the Senators of Law and Justice, but thank you also for meeting our club several times, as well as meeting our senators individually. I don't think anyone has made such an effort to really show that it is open, no one has made so many concrete proposals regarding the exercise of this office, very concrete, about how it will perform its office in the field, what role it provides for its deputies. No one has made so many concrete gestures and has not made so many proposals that the opposition can participate in the implementation of this office and this mission. There are a lot of senators on the Senate side who, deep down, consider you a very good candidate. I've heard it from all sorts of conversations in the cockroaches. But the decision to support you in this political arrangement and in the context of what the Senate is today requires great courage. I hope that some senators will have such courage and will oppose this waltz of total opposition, which prohibits the support of this candidacy and which even called for the resignation of such a good candidate. Your views are very profound in humanism, the fact that you are shameless in admitting to Christianity, to everything that Christianity has brought into this area of concern for the weakest, for human rights. This is very good, because it is in the Christian cultural circle that the deepest concept of the human person, mercy, support for the weaker, support for the disabled, support for the excluded, true, deep tolerance, from which Poland has been famous for many centuries, respect for the other person, respect for other religions, other nationalities, other cultures. It is all the Christian heritage, the deepest heritage and the most laudable heritage. And if you are guided by this system of values, no one will be harmed, because Christianity never precludes, Christianity never hurts anyone. In contrast to today's forceful leftist ideologies, which rule out every step of the way. Doctor, of course, the Law and Justice will support your candidacy. Thank you again for your accomplishments, for your charisma, for your strength of spirit, and I wish you a choice in the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u151	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, elected by the Sejm to be an ombudsman! What I'm trying to say is I'm gonna have to change my speech a little bit, because on a lot of things, Mr. Marshal. I've been hit by a crack. Ladies and gentlemen, by listening to the statements of the Senators of the Civic Coalition, but not only, because also the Left and independent, I believe that these statements more concerned the summary of the 6 years of rule of law and justice, not the election of the Ombudsman and the evaluation of Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski. And of course, we're probably gonna be different when it comes to six years of PiS rule. I am not surprised at the criticisms, but I am convinced by the voters who support the rule of law and justice. A 12% Support for the Civic Coalition causes that in 3 months the Left will probably be the second political force in Poland, and in the next 3 months may also the Confederation. But let's leave politics, because today we're going to judge Bartłomiej Wróblewski's candidacy. And here are the wise words, the important words you said to Marshal Marek Pęk. And I can say that I've known Bartholomew for many years and he's just a honest man, he's a man who has his conservative views and he doesn't deny his conservative views, he doesn't come here to the Senate to say that he's suddenly changed his views, because that's the majority in the Senate and maybe even help him. But Bartłomiej Wróblewski showed and also said that he is aware that these views, this system of values that he represents, are not 100% in society. That is why he reached out and proposed that the ombudsman's replacements should be people with views that also exist in society, not conservative views, but both social-democratic and liberal views. Because such views reflect the various support of the Polish society. It is a pity, it is a pity, ladies and gentlemen, that on the proposal to meet with the citizens' club in the Senate, whether it is senators or more, the club authorities did not agree under the pretext of pandemic. So that only Mr Bosacki and Senator Pociej met. There was no candidate for a spokesperson, Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, just meet and talk behind closed doors with all the Senators of the Civic Coalition, and conversation, dialogue always brings something positive. It is sad that Mr.Bosacki's only message after this conversation was the public call of Mr. Bartłomiej Wróblewski to resign from his candidacy, because it does not serve to build the seriousness of the Polish state. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say two more things about Bartłomiej Wróblewski. Some have raised here a question that was probably more pronounced by the media, but also Bartek did not hide his fascination with the mountains. And the fact that he won the Crown of Earth... It wasn't about bragging. I also like to walk the mountains, too I am from the region where there are mountains, although a little smaller, the Krkonoše Mountains, but getting Mount Everest, being the man of the mountains like Bartek, shows character, shows strength, shows perseverance, but also shows the need for cooperation. You don't get mountains if you don't work together. And Bartłomiej Wróblewski, highlighting this episode in life Well, maybe not an episode, and some fascination also showed what values he was guided by. Ladies and gentlemen, I will leave a little bit from Bartłomiej Wróblewski's candidacy. In the second part of my speech, I would like to say a little bit about the Ombudsman, because one of the allegations you raised was that a Member cannot be a candidate for an Ombudsman because he has views, etc. Yeah, you guys were pulling him out when he voted. Well, he voted as many as he did. But let's take a look at the history of the ombudsman. Mr Lipowicz, spokesperson for the Union of Freedom, Democratic Union. She was, and none of it made a problem. Mr Adam Zieliński, Member of the PZPR. Mr. Tadeusz Zieliński, Minister of the Left Government, apparently... Mr. Borowski here could correct me, but I think Prime Minister Cimoszewicz, if I'm not mistaken, but I might have been wrong. I do not remember whether Leszek Miller or Vladimir Cimoszewicz, but this concerns one of these two left-wing governments. [[I'll fix you later in general.]] Ladies and gentlemen, so... I am no longer talking about the first spokesperson of civil rights, indicated by General Jaruzelski. So let's not say that if someone's having a political episode, if someone's a parliamentarian... And this is not about Bartłomiej Wróblewski, because perhaps they will, i.e. there will certainly be other such candidacy in history. Well, that's the story, that this part of the resumes of individual candidates for the ombudsman was never disqualifying. But let's look at another element. We are in a certain legal situation today, and the Constitutional Tribunal has ruled that Mr Bodnar will not be here in less than two months, that we cannot continue to tolerate a situation where the Ombudsman's functioning goes beyond a constitutional term. Besides, you gentlemen from the majority of the Senate agreed very much when there was a problem of what could theoretically happen if the presidential elections were not held and the term of office of the President of the Republic of Poland ended. Then the Civic Coalition said: of course, the end, Andrzej Duda can no longer be President of the Republic of Poland. Here, the Constitutional Tribunal still gave three months. And we're gonna have to. We, the Senate, too, are voting here to decide what to do about it, so that the Poles will not be deprived of the Ombudsman. We're gonna have to do some prosthetic, adopt some appointing law, let's say, p.o. A spokesperson, someone to replace a spokesperson... I don't know who, I'm not a lawyer. And the question is whether today it would be better to choose an ombudsman to serve Poles. Because in just over 2 months we will find ourselves in a situation where there will be no ombudsman in Poland. I don't know how Parliament's gonna solve this. We as senators are also responsible for this, and we are also part of this legislative body. There's one more element that's really attached to it. I know that Marshal Borowski is about to correct me. I'm 100% sure of it. sure But this must be said because many senators, especially the senators, stressed the issue of abortion and the proposal made by Members of the various political options. To be clear, there were also Members of the Confederation and probably PSL. I think Mr. Bartłomiej Wróblewski might add to the conclusion. This request was made, and you were I'm sort of a representative of Members at the Constitutional Court. After all, you had no influence on when the Constitutional Tribunal issued this ruling or what the content of this ruling would be. Ladies and gentlemen, none other than Professor Andrzej Zoll, the legal authority for many Senators of the Civic Coalition, the Senate majority, has said explicitly that, with such a record of the constitution that we are dealing with today, there could be no other sentence in this regard than that of him. If you were Prof. Zoll was still the President of the Court, and he would probably vote for that too. [[11 minutes, Mr. Senator.]] And it was not Bartłomiej Wróblewski who passed this constitution in 1997, but among others. Mr. Marshal Borowski sitting here. Bartłomiej Wróblewski, seeing that it wasn't just Bartłomiej Wróblewski. I think it was over there... [[Mr. Senator, please recapitalisation. It's been 11 minutes, over 11 minutes.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Marshal. Yeah, I know time's running out, but... [[But I'd ask you...]] ...if you're going to be like this all the time... [[Yeah, I'll do that.]] ...he reminded me of the passing of time... If I was out of time, I'd understand, but you're kicking me out of rhythm. You've been reprimanding me every now and then. [[Well, you've crossed the line, it's been over 11 minutes. You're gonna have to recapitulate.]] Oh, have I crossed yet? I'm sorry. [[No, otherwise I wouldn't bother you.]] Oh, well, I'm sorry. I'm honoring you, Mr. Marshal. I'm sorry again. Ladies and gentlemen, so to speak, a sentence has been passed. It is not true that Bartłomiej Wróblewski took these people out on the streets. These people have been led out into the streets by a narrow group of extremely left-wing, vulgar people who have clung to certain fears and understatements that have been imposed by the media. Ladies and gentlemen, bearing in mind that Marshal Borusewicz reminded me of the passing time, I will say the last sentence. I hope there's one senator in the Senate, maybe two senators. And let's remember that we've been elected in the JOWs and we answer directly to the voters. Who will vote in favour of Bartłomiej Wróblewski's candidacy, even though they are from the majority of the Senate, from the so-called. The democratic majority of the Senate. Well, I don't agree with that term, because I also consider myself a democrat, although I'm not a member of the Senate today. I hope you will support a good candidate for the Ombudsman, Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u153	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Bogusława Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Doctor, our candidate for ombudsman! A few weeks ago, we had the opportunity to witness a laudation with the former Ombudsman. And I've already said many times that it was a spokesperson who never helped the citizens of my territory. Either he didn't answer his writings, or he said he couldn't do anything, although practically his abilities were far more perverse than mine as a senator. It was a spokesman who, with our Senate marshal, ran in defense of haunted women sowing religion of death, killing helpless children in the name of so-called. freedom. But it was a man who kept quiet when Germans, the owner of the company, insulted a Polish employee when he ordered her to pay the penalties, and he officially said that he hated Poles, even though he had this company in Poland. The Ombudsman screamed in defence of German media owners, but claimed that there was nothing he could do to defend the Iława fishermen I asked for help. They were fishermen who were harmed by the waterfront owners, by the owners who should be able to access the lake. He said that he couldn't do anything, because no one's talking to him about anything, and only when someone turns to him can he take the initiative. He didn't do anything when the nuns asked him for help, but he didn't have any resistance when he was supporting the LGBT environment. The Ombudsman should defend those who are weakest, not those who are in the media, not those who use populist slogans or refer to the latest fashion. The Ombudsman should work in the privacy of his office and should be the spokesperson of every citizen, especially the weakest one who will turn to him or who is unable to turn to him, but someone else will tell him that he needs help. I'm sure if you're elected ombudsman, you'll represent the weakest. I'm sure you have my vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u155	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Maria Blanket.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u156	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Professor! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for agreeing to run, that you would like to use your knowledge, your great legal knowledge, your professional experience, as well as your experience in social activities, because it is impressive that you are running these dozen offices that provide free legal assistance. Who are they giving this free legal aid to? Ladies and gentlemen, those who are most in need, those who do not have wealthy wallets, those who do not have any contacts and influence, and often do not even know how to move in the area of law to defend their interests. And then comes a man like Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, who directs them in these difficult matters so that they can fight for themselves. But in order to do this as a lawyer, you have to have social sensitivity, deep social sensitivity, focus on another person. And Dr. Bartłomiej Wróblewski has it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been sadly listening to the speeches of the senators from the majority of the Senate. Sadly, your statements pointed to great prejudices, a certain blurryness, a certain hardening of opinions. In fact, you have shown political prominence here, moving in those areas that you think are the most important in the work of the Ombudsman. You were talking about abortion, accusing Mr Wróblewski of signing a request to the Constitutional Court to verify the constitutional compatibility of the provision allowing abortion for eugenic reasons. You accused Dr. Wróblewski of not defending the women who protested in the streets. You alleged that he did not speak decisively against the changes that took place in the Polish judiciary. These areas, i.e. abortion, the presence of the Church in public space, because it was also discussed, the judiciary, the constitution, you think are the most important and in them the spokesman should be the most active. Indeed, the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar was the most active in these areas. But what was lacking in Mr. Adam Bodnar's work, and what should the Ombudsman do? And I am convinced that if you become an advocate of civil rights, you will handle it, and you will be an advocate of citizens' rights, not groups, specific social groups, professional groups or business groups. Because it is ordinary people who need this help, as Senator Orzechowska said, giving concrete examples And there was the infirmity of Adam Bodnar's spokesman. And just as he did, ladies and gentlemen, he stood up for the judges, even as a spokesman for the judges, so we did not hear him stand up for those who were harmed by the courts. And just as he stood up for those who were on the streets a few months ago, did he stand up for those who were attacked by those who were violently, aggressively, and who were challenged, who were even hindered in attending the service? They were attacked by those who attacked churches, but also by people physically, or those who stood outside the window and used to call names and threats. Has the Ombudsman stood up for these people? No. And I'm sure you'll stand up for those people who really need that kind of defense. You're being said and accused of having conservative views. Every man has opinions. If he didn't have them, he probably wouldn't have gotten far in terms of his professional activities, because the views are the concrete knowledge of the world, of life, those are the values that guide man. So everyone has opinions. You have a conservative view, and you're being accused of it. But why? Are conservative views worse than those left-liberal views that led Mr Adam Bodnar and which were guided by his entire several years of activity as a ombudsman? He wasn't hiding it. After all, it was Adam Bodnar who politicized the Ombudsman's office as much as possible. It's as bad as it gets. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that Dr Bartłomiej Wróblewski's candidacy is a very good candidacy and anyone who becomes independent, who will not have to be subject to any orders or show courage, as Marshal Borowski said... I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal! Marshal Pop, Marcus Pop. Oh, yeah, Marcus too. If you show courage, I'm sure many of you from the majority of the Senate will say: yes, that's a good candidacy. But will they be brave among you? I don't know. Some even here, from this speaker, have to explain that they've talked to you at all. Well, even that's what they have to explain, right? And in Latin they do it. Then we'll see if that courage comes. Because you're a really great candidate for an ombudsman, and you've really made that point in your entire professional and social activities, as I said before. Will you be independent? But what is independence, ladies and gentlemen? I think independence is a characteristic of character, that's a quality that you have or you don't have. Either man is generally independent, or he is dependent on every case, regardless of the circumstances, on where he comes to work, to act. You have this independence in you, because you've often been able to act against your environment, and you've been exposed to all sorts of unpleasant situations. You have expressed your views and you have voted as you think and as you think of the people you represent with whom you speak. So you're an independent man. I think independence is not dependent on whether someone who becomes an advocate for civil rights was a Member or a Judge before. That, ladies and gentlemen, is within. You're also a conciliatory man, a man of dialogue, a balanced attitude, a calm man who arguments in substance and doesn't get confused. It's a guarantee that you'll talk to everyone. You have such deep respect for the other man and his views. This respect is very important here, because if you are an ombudsman, it is with respect that you will treat other people, regardless of their views, whether conservative or left-wing or liberal. Respect and independence will guarantee that the affairs of all citizens who need help will be, ladies and gentlemen, by Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski considered. Dear people, Poles need a good ombudsman, a good, unpolitical man who will defend citizens in these ordinary matters. Has the former Ombudsman addressed, for example, the victims of wildlife reprivatisation? Did you ever hear of him fighting for the people who lost their apartments that were thrown out on the street? Have you heard such speeches? Have you heard of the Ombudsman defending those who have been injured by the court? No, ladies and gentlemen. In the case of such institutions, in relation to a professional group such as judges, you have not seen the problem. We, as parliamentarians, see these problems because our offices are being visited by people who, ladies and gentlemen, have been harmed by the justice system. It's a fact. There are people like that. Even if the justice system works very well, such situations can happen. With us, they happen often and you can't close your eyes, you can't say that a judge can do anything because he's independent and independent. No, the judges make mistakes, too, for all kinds of reasons. People must have the right to defend themselves against unfair sentences. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, I believe Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski is a very good candidate for the Ombudsman. He has many qualities that, if chosen, will help him to do the honorable function that we can call him to. And I believe we're gonna call him because there's a lot of arguments here. We are in a bit of a crisis situation, there is a political stalemate, and in two months we will be deprived of the Ombudsman. Maybe it's time to think a little wider, maybe it's time to walk away from such a totally negative attitude and look at a man without prejudice, look at his work, what he is, what he is, what he's doing. And then it will be much easier for you to make a good decision. Professor, you have a voice and a large part of this room you have a voice, which we can say, because we are having conversations, we are following your speeches, and we have talked about it. You've actually reached out to everyone. We have spoken to you and we would be very happy to see you, so completely human, not for political reasons, if you became an advocate of civil rights, because we know that a lot of things that are now going to our offices wouldn't come to us, because they would go directly to you, and you would certainly take care of them. You would guarantee that these matters, the affairs of ordinary people will find a happy finale, and they will not simply be sent back with a statement that I can't do anything. So that I wish you to be elected ombudsman, I wish you, I wish us, I wish Poland and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u157	Thank you, Senator, thank you, Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u158	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Doctor! Let me start differently than I thought, because there are many words here, and many things would have to be explained to my colleagues who may not know what the Ombudsman is doing and what he did. The first explanation is this: there is no concern that there will be no ombudsman after 15 July, as his replacements will act until a new ombudsman is elected in a constitutional manner. Secondly, I will really leave without comment the names of the women who fell out of this podium, the women who went out on the streets in October. These are Polish women, mothers, wives, daughters, grandmothers, sisters, voters. These are the women whose taxes we're sitting here for, we're standing here, we're debating here. Everyone deserves respect, and even if the state does not have the same views, they deserve respect. I also heard that Adam Bodnar was in the P.O., he was on the left... Well, such a shooting only proves that he was actually independent and objective. I also heard he wasn't helping the victims of the courts. The extraordinary complaints he has led are the help of the victims of judgments that were unfair. I also heard he wasn't defending Catholics. Each year there were cases of hate attacks on Catholic clergymen. In 2018, the Ombudsman took 14 such interventions out of office and in 2019. It's already 43. He took matters about desecration of Catholic temples: chapels near Opole, a church in Zarzecz near Niska. As regards the victims of reprivatisation, it was Adam Bodnar who submitted an application to the Constitutional Tribunal on 18 October 2017 for an assessment of the rules allowing eviction on the site. He was the one who helped widows, widows from tenants of municipal apartments here in Warsaw. He was the one who wrote letters to Beata Szydło in 2016, to the Prime Minister, asking for reprivatization. So it's not what you think. And now I'm gonna start the way I wanted to start. Art. 208 of the Constitution states: the Ombudsman defends the freedoms and human rights of the citizen as defined in the Constitution and other normative acts. In order for the Ombudsman to be able to effectively carry out the mission entrusted to him, the human rights mission must be characterised not only by legal knowledge but also by courage, courage to defend people, courage to act against authority, even when it is not beneficial to him in terms of image, when the authorities act against the citizen or when the institutions of the state violate or violate the rights of the citizen. And contributing to the vanquishing of the Constitutional Court, the independence of this Court is the opposite. This is not a citizen's aid, that is, aid granted to the State against its citizens. To contribute to the destabilisation of justice, to the dependence of courts is to act against citizens. 'Cause sometimes a citizen has a last resort. But it has to be an independent, independent court. After all, when there were votes in the Sejm, you could have shown courage, said that you disagreed. Member of the Commission, the doctor has a great deal of legal knowledge, which I very much respect. As a lawyer, I respect another lawyer's legal knowledge. But you had to have the courage to say it wasn't possible. But bravery costs money. Prominent lawyers in the Polish People's Republic found this out: patron Maciej Bednarkiewicz, patron Maciej Dubois, Edward Wende, patron Jan Olszewski, who was suspended for two years in the law of the profession for defending students in 1968. They were brave lawyers. Introducing yourself today, you said we have to break the patch, we have to get out of the party wedge. Well, no, sir, Doctor, it is not our job to get out of any wedge. Our job is to select an ombudsman who will defend citizens and citizens from power. Citizens and citizens, women, men, people with disabilities, non-heteronormative people, children, judges, prosecutors. These are citizens who sometimes need protection. That's our job. This task imposes on us the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, whose fidelity we vowed. And I take this vow very seriously. When I asked you today about the simple issue You didn't respond to the question whether the State should support the access of in vitro inefficient couples. You did, however, express your opinion on the compatibility of in vitro with the constitution. When I asked you about what was more important, the right of parents to raise their children according to their belief that the right to health care was a third generation right, and the most important thing is the right to raise their children according to their beliefs. Tell this to the family of this 6-month-old girl in 2013 from Brzeźna, who was treated by her parents and who died because of the destruction of the body caused by malnutrition. The quack was sentenced to 3.5 years in prison. Anyway, my parents were convicted, too. You said the most important thing for you was a man. There's art. The 38th Constitution, which deals with ensuring legal protection of life for every human being. That little girl also had legal protection for her life through the constitution. You asked me to talk twice. I told you what I'm gonna say right now. Your work as a Member has given me enough knowledge to make my decision. And let me tell you more: the fact that you didn't file a party card before you applied for this honorable office means that you didn't meet the conditions of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 3 Constitutions. And I'll tell you more. And it's nothing personal, Doctor. I respect you very much as a lawyer, but your candidacy is a slap for women, a slap for their freedom of choice, it's a slap for thousands of women who, despite the pandemic, came out in a silent protest despite the threat of life and health. And above all, your candidacy is a slap for the rule of law. The state of law never dies of itself. The directors of this death are always lawyers. He needed them and needs every populist and authoritarian regime. Someone has to pretend to be judges and professors, somebody has to write laws, and somebody has to tell Kowalski the decisions of the authorities. Silent lawyers. Out of sentiment, out of fear, out of desire for profit, out of laziness, out of naivety, and sometimes out of ignorance. The rule of law only dies with their help. This was said by an outstanding lawyer, Prof. Vladimir Sparrow. That is why, unfortunately, I will not support your candidacy as an ombudsman. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u159	Thank you, Senator, Mrs. Marshal. And please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Mr. Sort of Mid-Addict! Because you're already elected by the Sejm, and in the Senate, that's gonna be settled. Many words have already been said here, many such or other arguments have been said. I just want to highlight a few things or even remind you. Mr Adam Bodnar was elected spokesperson at the end of the eighth term of the Senate. Then all of us voted 82 votes two votes Mr. Bodnar's gone. There were 41 to 39, 2 senators with abstentions. We from the PiS were then 31, 4 senators were absent, i.e. voted, say, 27 senators from the PiS against... [[If you were present, you'd win.]] There weren't that many, there were 31, while 14 senators voted against from Platform 14, I think 2 abstained. There has been some evolution, because lately, with this farewell, everyone has unanimously paid tribute to Mr. Adam Bodnar as an excellent spokesman. [[The voice from the room: It worked.]] Did it work? I don't know if it worked that well. It might have worked for some people. But for everyone? That is a fundamental question. I think it's not for everyone, because I've heard of many cases when Catholics were insulted, how they were mocked publicly, how churches were devastated, and such a clear, transparent voice was never really there by Mr. Bodnar in defending these people. There's a saying that a monk's hood doesn't. I believe that a candidate who is partyless can turn out to be a very party spokesperson, and that one who has legitimacy is not said to be a party spokesperson at all. The hood doesn't make a monk. I would like to talk here about two such cases, which cause that I will personally give Mr. Wróblewski my vote with full conviction, because these very cases show that he has courage, has a moral backbone, has an opinion and can resist when necessary, and stand up for the weakest, the poorest. The first case is so-called. Five for animals. When it was on the wallpaper, he opposed many who wanted it to pass, said no and voted against. So he could even say non possumus in his environment and in this case he did not vote for it. And the second situation, the second opposition, which arouses my great respect and appreciation. This was when he prepared a motion to the Constitutional Tribunal to defend these smallest, most vulnerable, or unborn children. And here, contrary to the views, contrary to the wave that goes, almost anti-children, against unborn children, he was just able to lead this group, sign and perform. You probably have a lot of positive qualities, a lot of things have been said here, but for me, these are the situations that I mentioned, they show who you are and how much you deserve to be an advocate of civil rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u161	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u162	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I will be very brief only on a few sentences which the candidate, Bartłomiej Wróblewski, spoke in his speech, trying to convince us that he is a good person to take the position of Ombudsman. Well, you said... [[Cell phone signal]] Maybe I'll just wait a second... [[Voice out of the O.R.: I'll turn it off...]] Thank you very much. [[Gentlemen of the senators, please turn off your phones. In two hours, that's the second situation. The music was very pretty, but she's a little disturbed. There you go, Mr. Senator.]] Thank you. You said to all of us: today, your job is to stop the ombudsman. Apart from certain proper representatives of your formation, impertinence towards the High Senate, which is to repeat what the Senate supposedly can and cannot and should not and should not have, I would like to say that this is a false sentence. Because, of course, according to the constitution and the choice of the nation that chose us as senators and senators, our job is to select a good, independent, independent, impartial ombudsman. A man who will protect the rights and freedoms of all citizens and citizens. That is our duty today. Another sentence that you have said, and which I think will make it easier for us to decide, is: the Ombudsman cannot engage politically, cannot stand on either side of a political or a party dispute. And it's the right thing to say again. But what if the candidate is already the man who is very deeply involved in politics, who is even radically involved on one side of the political dispute? That's the candidate you are, Mr. Speaker. You're the one you warned us to in your own speech about not being such a person. Therefore, the Senators of the Civic Coalition will vote against you and I believe that the High Senate will also be able to choose by rejecting your candidacy. Hopefully in the near future A candidate who will become a fully independent, independent and impartial spokesperson. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u163	Thank you, Senator. Let me inform you that the list of speakers has been... [[Voice from the hall: Chróścikowski yet.]] Oh, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear candidate for the Ombudsman! I am very proud that the majority in the Seym, and especially the United Right, have trusted you. I know how many opponents in Law and Justice who thought that you had done what you had done by signing your application to the Court, as well as defending this position... Of course, you've exposed yourself to a lot of groups who don't think the way you say it. And that's why a lot of people had to convince the club authorities to make you a candidate. I think you're a credible candidate. As you have promised, you will defend all citizens as an ombudsman. You've given examples of this many times. And the fact that it was so difficult for you to get the support of the parliamentary majority shows that there was a lot of doubt about you being voted out after what you did for the smallest ones. But most of us at the club think you deserve it and you're gonna defend all the citizens. Your Marshal Blanket mentioned professional groups. I think that we farmers trust you and believe that many agricultural matters that have not been taken into account, because farmers are not always fully respected, the courts treat them very much on their stepmother... I know a lot of things, I know about interventions, I know how courts treat farmers when it comes to disputes and stuff. Whoever's right knows the truth... I don't want to talk about how it goes to court here, but I think we all know the movie where justice is. I think you are worthy of being elected to this House. I'm appealing, maybe somebody else will. I don't want to insult anyone, because I've seen more than once that you've been able to change your decisions. I remember that even in a few of my agricultural cases, you changed your decisions, and I'm grateful for that. I think you can still think about it and decide. The fact that you are open to all the groups that you have announced, that you are ready to cooperate with PSL, with the Left, with the liberals, that you are open to the possibilities of cooperation, indicates that you really want to be outside. My colleague Adam Abramowicz, who was elected spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises... Everyone thought he was gonna defend... that he was gonna be PiS-owski. Notice how many times Adam is defending these small and medium-sized ones. He's not afraid of attacking the current power. He's a reliable spokesman. I think you too, if they want to choose you here, you'll be credible. I'll vote in favour. If anyone else would like to support... I encourage you very much. He is a man worthy of support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u165	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed and Joanna Sekuła made their speeches in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this issue will be held after a short break. I'm declaring a recess until 8:00 p.m. Thank you, sir. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 23 to 20 minutes 02]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u166	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman. Let me remind you that those sitting remotely vote with the application, which is... When the polling appears, press the button twice to send the vote so that it reaches the counting device. Did everyone who attended a stationary meeting have time to reach the O.R.? Are there any comments? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. Thank you for the lively debate. If there are no applications both here, stationaryly and from remote voters, we will then proceed to the vote in a moment to agree to the appointment of an ombudsman. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Already? What's going on? [[Voice from the room: Trial...]] There will be no rehearsal vote because it is a resumption of the session. Well, unless the Senate government expresses that expectation. But it's not a habit. We are voting on the Senate's consent to the appointment of Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski as ombudsman. Who's in favour? Who's against it? [[Voice from the room: Against!]] [[Voice from the courtroom:]] I'm asking you to be serious. Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 48 were in favour, 49 against, two abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I find that the Senate did not agree to the appointment of Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski as ombudsman. I thank Mr Wróblewski for attending the Senate meeting. You've reported your desire to express the final word. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u167	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you very much for the many meetings we have had in recent weeks. It was a very inspiring time for me, too. I hope that the Senate in the next approach will agree and appoint an ombudsman, because it is an important function, a great responsibility and a great loss for citizens if the institution cannot function normally. Thank you again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u168	We wish you the best of luck on the way to a parliamentary career. Thank you for participating in the process of this important point. I'm declaring a 15-minute recess, followed by a whole block of votes over the other laws. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 06 to 20 minutes 28]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. We have enough votes, so I'm asking you to focus. To begin with, we are considering item twenty-fifth of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators on this matter is included in print No 393. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee adopted a draft resolution at its meeting on changes in the membership of the Senate committees, whose adoption I recommend to the High House. - I'm sorry. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, §2. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, selects: Senator Halina Poor to the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u170	Thank you very much, senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees... [[Note: However, I would like to speak.]] [[Voice from the room: There's no more...]] [[If you don't mind.]] Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the room: We're voting already.]] Mr. Senator... [[Because I talked to the head of the club. I'm sorry, but apparently there are some arrangements that haven't been taken into account. Maybe I'm crossing some rules, but...]] [[Voice from the room: Overstepping. We're voting.]] [[Voice in the hall: There's a vote.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[...maybe I'll speak up. I don't know what to do. Anyway, I don't...]] Mr. Senator, only I've already ordered the vote. It's... [[Yeah, but if that's what happened... I don't know, it's best for you to answer that question to the head of the club. Well, that's okay. Well, I don't know what to do.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Just because there's doubt, please, Senator, in short words, tell us what it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u171	Let me put it this way: there was a moment when I was going to go to this committee, but then, after my speech at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, when Mrs. Przyłębska wasn't there and I had an emotional speech, because I think it's breaking the basics of the system, that the head of the Constitutional Tribunal disagrees... I paid for this speech with a doctor's appointment. And then I informed the head of the club that, for health reasons, I was unable to go to such a serious committee as the petition committee and human rights committee. And I asked if I could stay on the immigration committee. Of course, I talked to President Ujazdowski about this. If I could, I'd like to maintain my decision until I straighten out my state of health, because the emotions associated with the committee, which is a lot, so to speak, political matters, are beyond my capabilities for the time being. And that's the doctor's recommendation. That's all. I ask you to respect my speech and not to make this public, if you don't mind... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u172	Mr. Senator, I accept that explanation. But I have a question for the chairman of the rule board: was the whole formal consent path... or were the applications filed?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u173	Mr. Marshal, yes. The Commission has worked on the basis of requests received by your marshal, requests signed by the senators to agree to a change of committee. So the committee had no choice but to make a decision. And she has decided to accept these proposals and in a uniform way recommends that the High Senate accept them.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u174	Yes. I therefore manage the vote because we were in the middle of a vote. Senator Fedorovich may change his decision in a short time, but this must go on his legislative path. [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote against.]] We're not gonna make any exceptions here. [[Well, then we're voting against it.]] [[Thank you so much and I'm sorry.]] Who's in favor of... We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, 55 against 25, 20 senators abstained. [[Voting No 7]] The motion has been accepted. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. [[What does Mr. Bodnar say?]] Mr. Senator, the Senate has clearly voted in its size. [[Ask him.]] We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; print No 375 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 99 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Payment Act under the direct support scheme and certain other laws. It was one of the few laws for which there is a one-off vote, there are many amendments so that I ask you to focus. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 371 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Alicia Chybicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint three committees recommend that the High House adopt a law with amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u176	Thank you very much. Do the other Senators still want to speak? I would add that the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport was Senator Małgorzata Kopiczko, and Senator Janusz Gromek, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 48 for, 51 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1, 3 and 4 should be voted on together. These amendments are intended to remove the changes that have been made during the parliamentary work in breach of Article. Article 119 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 51 for, 46 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 2 makes it clear that in 2021 the mechanism for calculating the reserve amount of the educational part of the general subsidy set out in the Income Act of local government units is not applied, it clarifies the objective for which the additional resources are to be allocated in the reserve and increases the amount of the reserve to PLN 280 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the people sitting remotely, please check to see if... Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 11]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Mr. Senator Lyczak? [[Talking in the O.R.]] 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Family Support and foster care. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a summary of all the proposals that were submitted during the committee meeting; Senate printing No 378 A. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject this law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 13]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Family Support and Replacement Care. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on the Charter of the Large Family, the Act on informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks and the Act on childcare of children under the age of 3. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 372 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 99 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Act on the Charter of the Large Family, the Act on Informationization of the Activities of Entities performing public tasks and the Act on the Care of Children aged up to 3 years. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 367 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u177	The Commission recommends that the High Senate adopt a bill with an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u178	Thank you very much. Do you, Senator, Marshal Gabriel Morawska- Stanecka, want to speak again? [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 48 votes for, 51 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 15]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we proceed to the vote on the proposal for an amendment to the law. This amendment makes the identity card issued to a person who is over 70 years of age valid for an unlimited period of time. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The Senate lobby...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, in the Senate, it's a popular amendment... There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 16]] [[The voice from the room: Well, really...]] [[Voice from the room: It wasn't me.]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Emissions Trading Scheme and certain other laws. The meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 369 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Report of 3 Joint Committees: Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Committee on National Economy and Innovation and Committee on Environment. At its meeting on 13 May, the Commission examined the proposals submitted during the debate on the Law amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme and certain other laws. The committees are asking for this bill to be adopted with amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u180	Thank you very much. Do the other Senators still want to speak? In addition, the Committee's rapporteurs were: on behalf of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs Senator Jolanta Hibner, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Maria Koc. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. Voting on a proposal to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 48 for, 50 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 18]] I state that, in the face of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 is technical and legislative in nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 2 aims to ensure greater transparency and facilitate controls on the spending of funds from sales through auctions of greenhouse gas emission allowances. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 3 is technical and legislative in nature. Who's in favour? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 21]] Similar but different technical and legislative nature is amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 5 is also technical and legislative in nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Piecha... Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 23]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 99 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 24]] [[Mr. Marshal, can I have a vote on the nine?]] Nine o'clock? [[Over point nine...]] That's in a minute, Mr. Senator, because I still have to read the magic formula. [[Good.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Emissions Trading Scheme and certain laws. When you consider point nine... Mr. Senator, let me remind you that there are only technical amendments to the vote. It's gonna happen in a minute. We return to the examination of the ninth paragraph: the Act amending the Energy Law and some other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 368 A. Let me warn you, it's been easy. Here are the 23 amendments. The votes will be held first... [[That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Chairman.]] ...on the amendments and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the act as a whole, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Before voting, you have the right to speak on technical issues, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u181	Mr. Marshal, I would ask you to consider a joint vote on the amendments, because it seems that the club positions are identical. So if... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...that's it, that's...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u182	Thank you very much. I understand the suggestion. If I don't hear any objection from any senator or any senator, I will consider this request worthy of consideration. Therefore, if you don't mind, I am holding a joint vote on the amendments from the first to the 23rd, all of them together. Who's in favour? [[We're all for it.]] Who's against it? [[Is that all you have to do is press it once?]] Who's holding back? [[I thought it was 23 times.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] We therefore proceed to vote on a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Energy Law and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print No 377 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Hamerski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you, on behalf of the members of the Committee on Infrastructure, a report on today's committee meeting. The Infrastructure Commission has given a negative opinion on the amendment of the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and on certain other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u184	Thank you very much, senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion, the proposals were submitted by the senators Ryszard Świlski and Jan Hamerski and Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka. I don't see any calls. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law, followed by a vote on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We therefore proceed with the vote on Senator Richard Śvilski's motion and on the motion of the committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on the National Tax Administration. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 370 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on the National Tax Administration. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 373 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act on the Protection of the Rights of the Buyer of the Apartment or of the Family House and the Developer of the Guarantee Fund. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 386 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Śvilski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Infrastructure recommend the adoption of an amendment law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u186	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion by Senators Ryszard Bober and Janusz Błucherz. I would remind you that Senator Ryszard Bober withdrew his conclusions in points 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 14, 15, 16, 17, 21, 23 and 24 from print No 386 Z. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? I don't see any calls. We therefore proceed to vote on the amendments tabled and then to adopt a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Attention, most of these amendments... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We know everything, right? Amendments 1, 2 and 3 are withdrawn. Amendments 4 and 13 should be voted on together. These amendments introduce an information obligation in respect of premises sold by developers which do not comply with the requirement for a meter for dwellings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 98 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 30]] Amendments 5, 6 and 7 are withdrawn. Amendment 8 aims to ensure that the payment to the developer of the last tranche of remuneration paid by the buyer to the open trust account is made after the bank has received a copy of the permit for use and not after the transfer of ownership has been concluded. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 51 votes for, 48 against, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 9 is an amendment withdrawn. Amendment 10 removes from the bank's checklist the obligation to verify that the developer is not behind taxes and social and health contributions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 51 votes for, 49 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 11 removes from the bank's checklist the obligation to verify that the developer has settled the cash liabilities to subcontractors. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 49 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 12 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Senator Libicki? [[Voice from the room: Yes, now...]] Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 97 were in favour, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 13 has already been voted in conjunction with Amendment 4, and Amendment 14 is withdrawn, as are Amendments 15, 16 and Amendment 17. Attention, amendments 18 and 20 should be voted on together. These amendments introduce the right to withdraw the buyer from the contract in the event that the developer does not remove the defects reported in the receipt protocol, despite an additional deadline. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 51 votes for, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 19 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 21 is an amendment withdrawn. Amendment 22 aims to lay down the principle that the contribution to the Developer Guarantee Fund is to be paid only once for the premises concerned, even if it is re-introduction to the sale. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 51 votes for, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 23 and amendment 24 are withdrawn. Amendment 25 aims to reduce the maximum percentage rates by which the contribution to the Developer Guarantee Fund is to be calculated. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 38]] Attention, amendments 26, 27 and 28 should be voted on together. These amendments aim at the correct definition of criminal sanctions in the criminal provisions of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 39]] Attention, amendments 29 and 30 should be voted on together. These amendments seek to remove from the law a provision which raises constitutional doubts due to the procedure for its adoption in the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 40]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Buyer of the Apartment or Single Family House and the Developer of the Guarantee Fund. We return to agenda item fourteen: the Act on ratification of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, drawn up in Brussels on 11 April 2014. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendment. It is in senate print No 376 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: No corrections.]] Who's against it? It's because of Croatia, Mr. Marshal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] That ratification was seven years old. She's thoughtful. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It had to be corrected.]] Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 42]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, drawn up in Brussels on 11 April 2014. We return to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the law on amending the law on local government, the law on district government, the law on local government and the law on public benefit and voluntary activity. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 385 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Joanna Sekula, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committee meeting adopted a law with 13 amendments. And that's my recommendation to the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u188	Thank you very much. Would the other Senator rapporteur still like to speak? Let me remind you that the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration was Senator Marek Komorowski. I don't see a call. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? [[Voice from the room: Red?]] Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Better green.]] [[The voice from the hall: But, Professor, it's a vote you're asking me to vote for, and it's long gone.]] Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 49 votes, 48 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 43]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on municipal self-government, the law on district self-government, the law on local government and the law on public benefit and voluntary activity. We are returning to item 16 of the agenda... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u189	Mr Marshal, I would like to make a proposal, a proposal that all the amendments in point 16 concerning this law on the National Debt Register should be voted together. I think all the wheels and clubs are in line with the amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u190	If I don't hear any objection, I'll assume the Senate has given its consent. We return to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National Debt Register and some other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 387 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u191	I just want to confirm what Senator Bosacki just said. Since the committee unanimously supported all the amendments, we can... [[Voice from the room: Please speak up.]] [[A little louder.]] We can absolutely vote on all these amendments in the block, because the committee unanimously recommended that all amendments be adopted and the whole bill adopted. [[Thank you, Senator...]] [[Voice from the room: But Amendment 45...]] As you rightly say, Marshal, Amendment 45 has been withdrawn, we simply will not vote on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u192	For the sake of order, let me remind you that Senator Aleksander Pociej also submitted proposals during the discussion and was also rapporteur for the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. I would like to remind you that the committee withdrew its proposal in point 45 in print No 387 Z. Does anybody want to maintain the withdrawal? No. So we proceed, with the consent of the High Senate, to the joint vote. In the first place, a collective vote will be held on all amendments, amendments No 1 Together, we are voting on amendments No 1.44. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 44]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One senator from the remote voter, please take a peek, see if he sent a notification. Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the National Debt Register and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Treatment of Persons with Mental Disorders that pose a threat to the life, health or sexual freedom of others. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution requesting the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 374 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 98 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 46]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Treatment of Persons with Mental Disorder that poses a threat to the life, health or sexual freedom of others. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and some other laws. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 383 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 aims to remove the provision amending Article. 57 of the Code of Offences, which extends the scope of criminalisation of collections to pay a fine or fine for another person as not related to the implementation of the Anti-Terrorism Directive. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 51 votes, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 2 seeks to remove the provisions amending the Code of Criminal Procedure as not related to the implementation of the said Anti-Terrorism Directive. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 3 is intended to remove from the so-called. the covidary law amending limitation periods for offences and courts and transitional provisions as not related to the implementation of the Anti-Terrorism Directive. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 votes against, 47 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 49]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 50]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 384 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u193	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The joint committees recommend that all amendments be adopted in addition to Amendment 10, which has been excluded, and Amendment 18 which has been withdrawn. About half of the amendments were supported by all the members of the joint committees and, in the case of about half, the votes were divided. The joint committees recommend the adoption of the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u194	I understand there's no... [[In this situation, we cannot vote on them by block.]] Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that you have submitted your conclusions to Senators Alexander Pociej and Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. I would remind you that Senator Aleksander Pociej withdrew his application number 18 in print No 384 Z and Amendment 10 was excluded. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? No. We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 improves the drafting of the rule. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 2 clarifies how the bidding start date is calculated. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 3 creates a closed catalogue of the data to be disclosed by the auctioneer joining the electronic auction. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 4 removes language error. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Are you Marshal Kaminski? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment 5 sets out the terminology of the Act in terms of the form of the required documents. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 55]] Amendment 6 specifies the calculation of the time limit by which the bailiff is obliged to hand over the tender documents to the court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 7 sets out amendments to the law on judicial bailiffs by introducing amendments to the substantive provisions of that law concerning the possibility of temporary production of commercial documents outside the ICT system, where the production of such documents in the system encounters obstacles difficult to overcome, as well as the time frame for the use of the paper-based documentation produced so far. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking you to take a look at your tablets remotely. Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 98 for, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 8 seeks to facilitate the referral of cases to hearings or public hearings in a court building. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Hibner? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 58]] Amendment 9 seeks to restore the existing arrangements for the referral of cases to a secret meeting, providing that it is only possible to hear the case in secret if the parties have not opposed it. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 59]] Amendment 10 was excluded. Amendment 11 excludes the possibility of dealing with cases at second instance in one-man cases. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 60]] Amendment 12 removes a conflict of 2 terms which makes it difficult for the parties to exercise their right to apply for a remote sitting in a court building due to the lack of necessary technical equipment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 95 for, 5 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 61]] Attention, amendments 13 and 15 should be voted on together. These amendments seek to ensure that the party has the opportunity to influence the decision of the court on the handling of the cassation action at a sitting in secret in proceedings before the NSA and the Supreme Court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 62]] Amendment 14 clarifies the provision on judicial proceedings in which the Warsaw Real Estate Reprivatisation Commission is party in order to achieve greater clarity of the proposed solutions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 63]] Amendment 15 has already been put to the vote, including Amendment 13. Amendment 16 clarifies the provision by indicating that a professional representative is obliged to provide an e-mail address and a telephone number in order to contact the court in cases conducted at a remote meeting. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 64]] Amendment 17 sets out a catalogue of letters which are serviceable to a professional agent via the ICT system. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted 99 in favour, no one was against, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 65]] Amendment 19 'cause Amendment 18, I'll remind you, was withdrawn It shall extend to 21 days the period after which the letter is deemed to have been served. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 66]] Amendments 20 and 24 should be voted on together. These amendments repeal the obligation to add additional copies of those letters, together with the annexes in electronic form, to the pleadings brought to the court by professional agents. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 98 for, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 67]] About the corrections... Excuse me. Amendment 21 seeks to clarify that matters relating to the taking of conditionally decommitted proceedings are considered urgent. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One person voting remotely, please check the tablet. Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 54 against, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 68]] Amendment 22 correctly indicates the scope of matters for which enforcement proceedings are considered urgent. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 69]] Amendment 23 clarifies the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Szejnfeld. Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 70]] Amendment 24 has already been voted on, including Amendment 20. So now Amendment 25. It shall set the same date of entry into force of the substantive provisions and the transitional provision relating thereto. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 71]] Amendment 26 seeks to ensure that the rules on service by the judicial information portal enter into force 2 months after the date of publication of the law and not 14 days later. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 72]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 73]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the 20th agenda item: the second reading of the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and obliged these committees to present an additional report at this meeting. It is in print No 222 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! The joint committees recommend the adoption of the amendment and the adoption of the entire law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-13-senat-24-2.u196	Thank you very much. Does the senator want to speak again? Let me remind you that during your second reading, you presented proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Ryszard Bober. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? If not, we shall proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment presented, print No 222 X, and then on the adoption of the draft, print No 222 S, in full, with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. The amendment aims to eliminate the legal standard which excludes the specific protection guaranteed to the farmer holding the holding in the event of simultaneous referral of the execution to all the property belonging to the debtor's holding. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 99 were in favour, no one was in favor of 1 senator. [[Voting No 74]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety, with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted and the draft resolution on the submission of the bill to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Aleksander Pociy to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 99 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 75]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Aleksander Pociy to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the second reading of the draft law on compensation for the income lost to the municipalities in 2018 due to the change in taxation of buildings included in wind power plants. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 354 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law presented by the committees on compensation for the income lost to the municipalities in 2018 due to the change in taxation of the buildings included in the wind power plants and on the draft resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 votes for, no one opposed, 47 senators abstained. [[Voting No 76]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a bill to compensate the municipalities for the income lost in 2018 due to the change in taxation of the buildings forming part of wind power plants and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz to present the position of the High Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and the Act on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices. I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 356 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Ewa Matecka to present the position of the High Senate in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law presented by the committees and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, 55 votes against, 23 against and 22 abstentions. [[Voting No 77]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on the provision of public-funded healthcare and the Act on the refund of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Ewa Matecka to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the second reading of the draft call for action to increase the mobility of European Seniors. I would like to remind you that a draft appeal was presented before the break and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are asking the Senate to accept the single draft of the call contained in print No 392 S. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted 98 in favour, no one opposed, no two abstentions. [[Voting No 78]] In view of the results of the vote, I note that the Senate has called for action to increase the mobility of European Seniors. That's where we ended the vote. I'm declaring a recess until May 27th, until 11:00 p.m. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 21 minutes 52]]
