ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators located in the Senate building, please check whether you have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 68 senators voted and so many attend the sitting. This number, as you can see with the naked eye, is growing. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, as announced earlier today at 12.00, a 40-minute break in the session will be announced during which the exhibition will be opened. What is really important in life? We proceed with the review of item 19 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Humans and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 593, and the report of the Commission In print No 593 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u2	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I have the honour to present to you a report on the meeting of the Health Committee on the Law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Beings and on certain other laws. The Law of the Sejm was adopted at its forty-third meeting on 9 December 2021. On 10 December, the bill was passed to the Senate and the Senate Marshal sent it to the Health Committee. The Health Committee also held an appropriate meeting on 10 December. Following the review of the law on this day, the committee asks: The High Senate will approve the attached draft, of course with the amendments which the committee voted on. Mr Waldemar Kraska and the spokesperson for patient rights, Mr Bartłomiej Chmielowiec, were present at the meeting of the Health Committee. According to the proposalor's declaration, the legislation is intended to implement the principle of social solidarity, which is the key to the universal implementation of preventive vaccinations. This is the kind of social solidarity that applies to universal vaccination programmes in other European Union countries, including, for example, in Finland, where it expresses itself in providing vaccinated persons with legal remedies that allow for the rapid receipt of a cash benefit in connection with the existence of the so-called. NOPs, i.e. unwanted graft reactions, without having to appeal, without being prosecuted before common courts. Right now, at a time when it gallops the price line, as inflation rises, the committee strongly recommends the introduction of a compensation fund. There was no doubt about that, especially since the Act is being proceded as a matter of urgency. During the pandemic of vaccination and the possibility of these undesirable post-vaccination reactions are particularly emotional, especially since online knowledge undermines sound academic knowledge. This is how anti-vaccine movements develop, which is what we see today. This is unfortunately expressed in the number of deaths that should be carefully analysed by doctors, practitioners, but also senators. The committee's meeting raised the issue of the speed of implementation of the law, which could result in an unprepared medical environment. Moreover, the current NOP registers raise a lot of doubts, they will certainly need to be improved. It was also asked at the committee's meeting why the project that had been announced for so long was prepared as a parliamentary project, not a government project. We argued that, as a rule, the law raises no objections. The Fund could also be treated as a bonus of some kind encouraging vaccination, as patients will be guaranteed financial compensation if these adverse vaccination reactions occur. The Legislator of the Senate also indicated that there are grounds for recognising that the article adds. 1 point 1 of the opinion of the Art. 17a paragraph. 1 The Act on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans is incompatible with the Constitution, with the constitutional principle of equality, because as a result of the application of this provision, persons who would be subject to the recommended protective vaccination, e.g. for hepatitis A or type B, mumps, rubella, pertussis, tetanus, diphtheria, polio or tuberculosis, and would require hospitalisation due to NOP within a period of not less than 14 days or up to 14 days in the event of anaphylactic shock. The compensation will not be granted. In addition, if, as a result of compulsory protective vaccination or vaccination against COVID-19, adverse reactions occur within 5 years, which will not be included in the so-called. The summary of product characteristics, i.e. the SPC, will also not be eligible for compensation. According to Art. 32 of the Constitution, which deals with the principle of equality between all and the law in political, social and economic life, the legislator has proposed appropriate amendments. By translating this into a common language, I will explain that in this case the basis for payment of the compensation benefit is the printing, the leaflet by the company, the manufacturer of the vaccine. The next question raised by the Legislative Office concerned the procedure for making a claim for compensation available on the website, which should be governed by a normative act, a law, a law-law regulation or a regulation. In addition, the Legislative Bureau raised legislative objections and proposed 3 amendments. Despite the extensive comments made in this regard, the Minister disagreed with the opinion presented by the Legal Office's staff. The Ministry points out that there are no constitutional objections. The proposals for amendments of the Legislative Office were supported by the Health Commission. In addition, I also tabled an amendment aimed at reducing the amount of the levy for the application for compensation from PLN 200 to PLN 100. The amendment was not approved by the Ministry or by the majority of the Health Committee. That concludes my report. Finally, I would also like to make an appropriate amendment in order to waive the application fee at all. This fee Of course, if the application is dealt with by the Commission in the case of the Ombudsman of the patient's rights It's returned. Nevertheless, as a doctor, I believe that a person who has undergone such a severe adverse reaction required hospitalisation or had an anaphylactic shock should not pay for such an application. So that I would like to make such an amendment here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. As I understand it, you are making an amendment not as rapporteur, but individually. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Yes, yes.]] At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? No. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Tomasz Latos has been authorized to present the position of the applicants for the bill... But I can't see him. Is there anything that Senator Waldemar Kraska would like to add on behalf of the applicants? Thank you very much, Senator. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Thank you.]] I also welcome the representative of the patient's attorney, Deputy Director of the Legal Department of Mr Tomasz Młynarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! On 26 November, at the request of the Marshal of the Sejm, I chaired a working group in which all parliamentary clubs and circles took part, i.e. all the political forces that are in this Parliament. And at this meeting, we made some arrangements so that certain laws, certain solutions that will help to combat the COVID-19 epidemic could be adopted as if above the party interests. And this act on the compensation fund was accepted by all clubs and circles, and it was considered to be a law that should be implemented as soon as possible. This law is intended to enable vaccinated persons to obtain a cash benefit quickly due to an undesirable vaccination reaction, without having to refer to the procedure before the general courts. We know that this procedure is quite long-term and often discourages those who could apply for such compensation to take this path. If, following a protective vaccination, a person who received a protective vaccination occurs listed in the summary of product characteristics, i.e. the so-called. SmPC, vaccine or vaccine adverse reactions that caused hospitalisation for a period of not less than 14 days or involved the occurrence of an anaphylactic shock in that person requiring observation in the hospital emergency department or in the emergency room or hospitalization for up to 14 days will benefit from compensation. Compensation will be provided both when the adverse reaction of the vaccine is directly related to the cause of hospitalisation and when the adverse reaction resulted in deterioration of the health condition requiring hospitalisation for a period of not less than 14 days. As a result, the rules on compensatory benefits will apply to routine vaccinations carried out as part of compulsory preventive vaccinations, in particular children and adolescents up to the age of 19. Optional share vaccinations, which are carried out in an epidemic, organised by the State and financed by the State, will also be covered by this compensation fund. In the Republic of Poland, several million preventive vaccinations are carried out each year, both financed by the state budget, so-called. compulsory preventive vaccination, as well as by patients and doctors, depending on the individual vaccinations recommended. For this number of vaccinations carried out only in relation to 2 and 8 cases are identified after vaccination such signs that, on the basis of the analysis of reported adverse vaccination reactions and medical records, are classified as severe adverse vaccination reactions due to the vaccine or the method of vaccination. Most side effects are limited to local reactions such as redness and pain at the injection site or general symptoms such as: increased body temperature. The available data on the current global vaccination campaign against COVID-19, which is not properly unprecedented in terms of scale, also indicate that vaccination is highly safe. For every 10 million administered doses in the world, there are dozens of times. A serious allergic reaction which is difficult to predict for the individual response of the body to the administration of the vaccine. These data demonstrate very clearly the high safety of preventive vaccination. The compensation will be provided in the administrative procedure completed by the administration of the ombudsman. The time limit for examining the application shall be 2 months, which shall ensure that the right to the benefit in question is rapidly established and paid. In the case of an incomplete or inadequately paid application, the ombudsman shall call on the applicant to complete the application within 30 days from the date of service, indicating the deficiencies identified in the application without examination. In the absence of a basis for a substantive assessment of the proposal, the Ombudsman will also be able to issue a decision without the participation of the panel. It will be the responsibility of the Advisory Group of the Protection Parts Compensation Fund to draw up a substantive opinion on the occurrence of the adverse reaction and its consequences, after which the Ombudsman will give a decision on the granting, amount or refusal of the compensation benefit. This team will consist of 6 members. They will be doctors with specializations such as infectious diseases, pediatrics, allergology, neurology, surgery, cardiology and pulmonology. The members of this team will be appointed by the ombudsman. The compensation will be of a flat-rate amount, the amount of which will be indicated in the proposed law. Its height will depend primarily on the length of the period of hospitalization. The compensation shall be covered by adverse reactions which have occurred following vaccinations carried out against COVID-19 after 26 December 2020 and by other preventive vaccinations covered by the provisions of the proposed law carried out from 1 January 2023. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The main source of funding for the fund will be payments to the bank account of the fund made by the entities of pharmaceutical companies, wholesalers, which have concluded a contract with the Treasury for the delivery of vaccines to carry out preventive vaccinations. The amount of contributions will depend on the amount of contracts concluded and will amount to 1.5% the gross value of the contract concluded. The contributions to the fund's bank account shall not be made in the case of vaccines purchased on the basis of an agreement on the early purchase of vaccines against COVID-19 disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 virus concluded by the European Commission with the Member States of the European Union on 16 June 2020. We are convinced that after the creation of the fund, those people who are still unconvinced for vaccination will decide on vaccination, because we know that at the moment it is crucial to master this pandemic of coronavirus, and the means to do so are mass, as common as possible vaccinations. So I think that this bill is going in this direction to convince those who are undecided, and to make up for the adverse effects of vaccination in some way. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u5	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? [[Voice from the room: Yes. Yes.]] Senator Elephant. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, what about vaccinations against tropical diseases? What about the period of hospitalization outside the country? Will he also be included? And here's the question: what if someone takes a vaccine in a country other than Poland, admitted in that country, and the reactions occur already in Poland and here will be hospitalization? Does the Fund also provide for the payment of funds to persons who accept vaccines in another country? This is about vaccines distributed by someone else, not by companies registered in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u7	I'll answer in writing. I'm sure that'll be the exact answer, Senator. I think that this fund mainly concerns companies that deliver mandatory vaccines to Poland, but we will respond precisely in writing, Mr. Senator. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u8	Who else? Senator Malecka-Libera. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u9	Thank you very much. Minister, using your presence and the fact that you are in the stands, I will ask you a question in the context of the Law on the Prevention of Infectious Diseases, but a bit wider. I would like to ask the Minister about yesterday's regulation. I would ask you very much to tell us clearly and clearly what it will look like to be restricted in pubs and nightclubs on New Year's Eve, as well as in restaurants that are planning a prom on that day. And what's New Year's Eve gonna look like in the open, in the air?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u10	I mean, that's not the senator's question, Mr. Marshal, about the compensation fund... [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: But in terms of epidemic prevention.]] We can ask anything. Of course I'll answer the senator. Of course, these new sharpenings are coming in today. As far as New Year's Eve is concerned, the limit for non-vaccination is 100 people. All persons who are vaccinated do not enter this limit This applies to 31 December and 1 January. As for the gatherings outside, those limits that are now set will also be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u11	Thank you. Senator Komarnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, unofficial information from today is very tragic. At 10:30 will be confirmed, which is a message from your ministry, but if it is true that today there are 24,000 infected and 660 deaths, then the situation is dramatic and it is high time, Minister, sit down, seriously talk and turn up the sharpening. Because, frankly, the number of deaths is increasing, and you're telling... And the other governments, the serious ones, they've turned up the sharpenings a long time ago. We know what it's like with our neighbors. [[Mr. Senator, question. Excuse me.]] Don't you think, Minister, it's about time we did it a little differently?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u13	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u14	I don't understand the question, Mr. Marshal. What does that mean? I'm sure the senator has a theory and a solution, so we'd be happy to use them if you'd like to present them. Ladies and gentlemen, we have more than 24,000 daily infections today, but if we look at a given week to a week, we will see that there is a 14% drop. We seem to have reached the top of this fourth wave by now. It also seems that this summit will not be a one-time summit, but it will be a plateau on which we will stay for a period of time. And based on information from individual voivodships, this wave is definitely starting to drop. This has not yet been postponed in terms of the number of patients who go to our hospitals, because it is always shifted over time. Approximately 2, 3 weeks. So these patients will probably be coming. However, yesterday globally in Poland there were a dozen or even more patients who are hospitalized... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, they were discharged home. About the deaths. That's very important, Mr. Senator. This is largely the case for people who are unfortunately not vaccinated. These are individuals who have not been vaccinated. From the information we have before the meeting... Senator Silencer also talked about it. We have signals that these people who are in hospitals and are vaccinated, undergo the infection of COVID-19 much milder, their recovery is much faster. We observe that patients who are currently in our hospitals, compared to patients from previous waves, are patients in much worse condition, require longer treatment, but also often immediately helping an intensive care unit, which is the help of a ventilator. This afternoon at the session of the Parliament's Health Committee will be the first reading... It will be a parliamentary project to check certificates and carry out tests by employers. These are the next steps that are ahead of the possible emergence of a new variant of Coronavirus, Omicron, which is certainly already in Poland, because actually all over Europe these cases are found. Unfortunately, research shows that it is more contagious than the Delta variant, which is currently in our country, although daily there are quite optimistic reports that the booster dose, the third one that we are currently using, is very much protecting us from this new mutation. And that's the good news. This shows how important vaccinations are, that it is worth getting vaccinated, it is worth protecting yourself and your loved ones, especially now that the holiday season is coming up and we want to meet your family, with your loved ones. I think that when it comes to vaccinations, they are very important. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u15	Thank you. Senator Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u16	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, two questions. The first question is this. How many tests have been performed to detect Omicron infection in Poland since it officially appeared? Because the amazing thing is that our citizen flew to China and it was only there that she was found infected with Omicron. Is there an Omicron test for each test, or isn't it? And second question. Are you planning - And if so, when? • vaccinations for immunosuppressed individuals such as transplant patients? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Four. I understand there's a third dose now. But they have to have a fourth. These are the people who stay at home, they don't leave. They called me asking me to take care of this case, and I'm handing it over to those who can do something. The Parliamentary Group will meet on 5 January. The transplant, but maybe you already have a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u17	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! Senator! As far as detection of these new mutations is concerned, there is currently a network of laboratories in Poland that deal with this. This is a special test, this test shall not be carried out for each sample. These samples are selected in a special way, so that we can pick out from a group just those cases that could be characterized by this new mutation. That's what health services do. We perform more than 5,000 sequential tests a week on this new mutation. I think it's a pretty large number of samples that are being subjected to... However, as we can see, we will not always find this variant, which may also be in our country, or Omicron. As far as the fourth dose is concerned, I am not an expert, but if this recommendation is made by the Medical Council, of course we will apply it, although the world reports show that the experts' opinions are divided, some advise against administering the fourth dose. But as I say, it's not a question. the Minister of Health, it is only a matter of a group of experts who will make such a decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u19	Thank you. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I was inspired by your answer to Senator Komarnicki's question. Maybe I'm more sorry, Mr. Senator, but I'm going to put this question in order for the Minister to answer it. Minister, tell me what they're doing, in the opinion of the Minister, the entire ministry and government, the governments of other countries, that the results of pandemics, in particular mortality rates, are such and not different. I think we're in the lead, maybe the minister will tell us where we are at 100,000 or 1 million and what we're not doing. I have knowledge of this, of course, but I would like to hear what the Ministry's knowledge is about it. That's the first question. Second question, Minister. Is that a low percentage of implantation... I think one of the ministers or even the minister said it was from the Polish protest gene. Do you really think that the only element that affected such low implantation in Poland in relation to other countries... [[Timer signal]] ...is the protest gene? If so, please justify it. [[That's what I asked you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u21	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I think at the root of the number of people losing the fight against COVID-19 is the number of people who unfortunately haven't been vaccinated. The statistics are ruthless here, showing that out of 100 people who die from COVID-19 infection, 94 people are uninsulated. So this is kind of the basic effect of the fact that part of our society is unfortunately not vaccinated. Why is there such resistance in Poland? I think that this is not only the case in Poland, because in many European countries there are many people who may be less than in us who do not choose to receive vaccination, do not make this good decision. I personally have already had several hundred or even more conversations with different people who do not want to get vaccinated. And to them the arguments, Mr. Senator, the substantive scientific really don't get there. I think social networks have done a lot of bad things, where a lot of different fake news shows up. Some, unfortunately, take it uncritically. And showing statistics, showing how many uninsulated people die, unfortunately already does not work on Poles. As such a final argument I always say: I invite you to the covid hospital to see the person who is there to see how difficult the course of this disease is, how difficult it is to catch your breath to see that patients who are not vaccinated and who have been admitted to such a ward would like to inoculate at this moment, but it is unfortunately too late. We have used practically all methods to convince Poles, through media campaigns, various campaigns, but, as you can see, this does not reach people who are unconvinced and unfortunately risk their lives and health. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u23	Thank you. Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u24	I'd just like to remind you of this opposition genie. Would you mind referring to that? Is that just from the opposition gene? What does that tell you? Because there was this statement from one of the ministers about the gene of opposition. And one more thing, briefly, not to speak again, Mr. Marshal. Minister, are you aware that if there is no scientific element in public space, there are other methods to reach people who do not understand or do not want to understand scientific elements? I'll give you an example. If the child does not understand the translation using the scientific element, then other arguments are used. [[The voice from the room:]] That's not what I meant. [[Senator, ask me a question.]] Are you aware that other instruments, not just scientific instruments, should be used to show how important vaccination is?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u25	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! From the beginning of the pandemic, I've been in favour of convincing, encouraging, showing. I think that's the way we can always get there. And if someone's immune to knowledge, Mr. Senator, that's fine.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u27	Thank you. Minister, is the government going to introduce covid passports? This is the continuation of this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is today that a bill will be proceded, in which also these covid passports are mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u29	Thank you. Senator Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u30	Thank you very much. Minister, tell me which specific protective vaccinations are covered by this law. Because, as we know, vaccinations are compulsory and optional, which is recommended. Which specific vaccinations are covered by this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u31	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! This law is subject to vaccination against COVID-19 and compulsory vaccination of children up to the age of 19. Let me give you another question: why aren't vaccinations recommended? As we would like to focus next year mainly on compensation for vaccination against COVID-19, this will be mandatory next year. Perhaps, if necessary, and the amount of funding will be sufficient. In the future, compensation funds will also be covered by the so-called "compensatory funds." voluntary or additional vaccinations.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u33	Thank you. [[Can I ask you another question?]] Here you go, next question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u34	I understand that all vaccinations on the mandatory vaccination list, and in the case of COVID only children to the 19th...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u35	No, no. All vaccinations on COVID... [[Okay.]] ...plus mandatory vaccination of children up to the age of 19. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u36	Thank you. Minister, I have two questions for you. First: what does the implantation in Poland look like at the moment? Because it was 52%. And now, apparently, it's 54%. And what does it look like with other neighboring countries? That's the first question. The second question refers to Senator Elephant's question. He asked if vaccination outside the country would be covered by this law, and I would like to ask whether other vaccinations, vaccinations other than those authorised in the European Union, would be covered. It goes on for example. Sputnik V, Chinese Sinovac, etc. People drive, they can get vaccinated, and that's why it's a question. Are we gonna be responsible for this, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u37	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! However, I regret that vaccination in our country is not at a high level. That's, like your marshal said, about 54%. In other countries, this is 70% and 80%. It seemed that these countries too... Well, for this original variant of Coronavirus, it seemed that this level of implantation would already guarantee population immunity. It turns out that the next mutations, including the Delta mutation, I suspect that the Omicron mutation will contribute much more to this, caused that in order to achieve this population resistance... Experts stress that this is a question of transplantation of more than 90% population. Plus, there's people who got sick with COVID. Unfortunately, we are still very much lacking in this, although we have seen much greater interest in recent weeks. More people want to get vaccinated, and it's not just the third one that looks like a dose. However, there are quite a number of people who are taking this booster dose. And very well, because in fact all the studies show that this is very effective protection against COVID-19 infection. But we have also observed that many people are taking this vaccine for the first time. This may be due to a large number of infections, as well as the fact that many people who are not vaccinated die. I'll answer the second question. These are those vaccines that are authorised by the European Medicines Agency. So that people who are vaccinated will be covered by the compensation fund, but this is only about those vaccines that are authorised by the European Medicines Agency.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u38	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No further questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Elephant. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u39	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I won't be here long to debate. I think the fight against the pandemic is our common interest, and this bill on the compensation fund is very much needed. I'm sure it'll be some kind of bonus, although it seems to me, based on clinical practice, that people aren't going to get vaccinated just to get the fund, and before that, they're going to have a severe, unwanted vaccine reaction. As for the management of the pandemic... the Act, as the President said, treats it more widely. As a doctor of practice and as a senator, I would also like to ask you to make this pandemic management more effective. Unfortunately, the hard end points are the deaths that we now have... Every day we experience as human doctors the drama of dying alone in covid wards, this care is very difficult. The fourth wave of pandemic is particularly difficult because, as the Minister said, we have patients who haven't been vaccinated who haven't had time to convince themselves to protect themselves with a vaccine and arm themselves with antibodies to the war with the virus. And now it's like Professor Filipiak said that six tupolews fell from the sky a day. This is the situation we have in Poland. These deaths give us a negative assessment. I don't envy you as to your position in the management of the pandemic... It's a good thing the vaccines came in time, after all, because many lives were saved, many people who believed and believed in vaccines. For me, as a physician, this is the achievement of the science of recent times. If it wasn't for vaccination, we'd definitely be at a different stage in our lives. But I'd also like to ask... Maybe that's a rhetorical question. Well, I think we should learn from neighbouring countries when it comes to enforcing covid passports when it comes to filling out forms for our current epidemic situation, and if someone is not vaccinated, then to enforce swabs. Pulp tests from biological materials such as, for example, are also acceptable in EU countries. Children's saliva so they don't close kindergartens, don't close schools. The point is, however, to introduce and enforce what you sometimes propose. In everyday life we don't see this enforcement and I just keep wondering: if there are laws, why do so many people die? When I was studying medicine and doing my first specialty, my first boss said that every death requires analysis so that we can understand what happened. And I still expect this analysis to show up. 'Cause I feel like you guys keep saying it's okay, it's okay. It is known that people die during the epidemic, but it is the 21st century, and I expect that we will take advantage of all the experience so that these people die less. And we have these tools. If the Polish government spent PLN 1 billion on vaccination advertising, and it has such a weak effect, then I think we did not use all the tools. When we travel around Europe, we see what it looks like. Anti-vacciners make such arguments, that e.g. in Israel, which has been highly implanted, people are sick. However, there are much fewer fatal cases. The vaccine doesn't give us 100% certainty, but it gives us 80% certainty. And we see it. That's why I'm asking you to let us here, for example. within the Health Commission, carry out an analysis of these fatal cases. The point is to know whether we as doctors are working badly, whether this is because we do not use prevention in our public life, in commercial homes, kindergartens, schools, and so that, however, we take such steps as soon as possible to reduce the number of deaths. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u40	Thank you, Senator. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The conduct of health policy during the epidemic and during the threat of life and health of Poles lies on the side of the government, on the side of the Ministry of Health and the government, not just a matter of citizens. It is also what governance is like here, what decisions are made, how the whole process of managing and educating society is going on, that depends on the response of all citizens. If they understand this message, if it is coherent and addressed to it, then citizens will apply it. An example was the first moment when all citizens were in prison in their homes and no one was discussing it. The compensation fund is one of the elements, one of the instruments that the government and ministry can use, and this instrument was mentioned right at the beginning of the vaccination programme, which was last year. We've been waiting a year for this bill to be worked quickly today. And as for the fund itself, no one has any doubts, we knew from the beginning that it would be one of the methods encouraging the society that has the right to ask, has the right to be afraid, and that is why there is a ministry, that is why there are experts, doctors, to answer these questions. So no one had any doubts about the fund from the beginning. I think that the biggest doubts were expressed by the ruling party, which is why it is not a government project, as was announced, but a parliamentary project. On 9 December, this project was examined in the Sejm and on 10 December in the Health Committee. Do you really think this is the right way to debate important matters? Well, I don't think it is. Of course, we understand this situation and that is why we agree to it, the next day the Health Committee was immediately convened, but once again I appeal to the Minister, Minister Kraska, who is a doctor: Minister, that society doubts that it has doubts about the new vaccine, everyone, we all knew at the beginning of the year. And the question of education, information, communication to society, everyday translation, quiet medical, more would do, I suspect, than introducing now, at the end of the year, this compensation fund as one of the elements. What else, as a governing team, you have to take into account, since everything from the medical community, from the Medical Council, health experts, and neighbouring countries that have far greater restrictions, and the experience that you should also draw from... What else needs to be done for you to make simple, clear decisions? Because so far we have decisions that are against each other, decisions that are too late, and decisions about actions that are too mild in relation to the situation that we have. Because the situation is really dramatic. I'm trying not to be emotional today, although, as you know, these things usually touch me very much. But today I'm really trying to talk about facts. If, according to the public opinion polls, and after all, the state always makes these analyses, and on the basis of these data, decisions are taken is in favour of compulsory vaccinations and 19% is in favour of compulsory vaccinations. For such vaccinations, for example in some groups, i.e. doctors, medical staff, teachers, trade representatives, the opinion of this group should be most important and binding to you. And the state in your decisions is mainly based on public opinion polls 10% , because only 10% counts this group, which is definitely declared as an anti-vaccine group. The rest are people who doubt. And once again, they have every right to ask. And the Ministry of Health is to educate, from the very beginning, since the trial. This has not been done honestly, and this is not my opinion, this is the opinion of people who work with patients with COVID, this is the opinion of sociologists who say that education has been missed. These purchases of scooters, scooters, and other awards were completely unheard of when it comes to the process of reaching society. It all seems like we're doing something, but not exactly the right thing to do. An example is the last conference, what I asked the Minister. A week ago, there was a conference, and since the 15th, there were supposed to be specific restrictions. And yesterday a regulation was issued, which is different from what was announced a week ago. How are we supposed to protect ourselves when we're closing pubs and nightclubs, but on New Year's Eve, we're all playing, singing, dancing? Where's the logic here? After all, society sees all this and asks: where is the logic? All these decisions are made in a diagonal way. We're gonna do something, but we're not gonna exactly enforce it. The Minister said that today or tomorrow in the Sejm there will be a bill on covid passports. I checked that bill. It's not, ladies and gentlemen, so that the employer can check the covid passport. We do not give him that right, at least at this stage, which is there, and this is unfortunately also a parliamentary project. That's where the speech is. It's about testing. So again, we're saying that we're going to do something, that we're going to check the covid passport, but we're not giving the employer a firm right to enforce it. Another statistic. 97% the deceased are not vaccinated. Isn't that hard evidence? Isn't that the number that should shake us all up? Also decision-makers, because it is because of your decisions, that you have specific provisions that eliminate the epidemic and progress in managing it. What happens in neighboring countries... After all, you also drive, show passports everywhere, and no one has a problem with that. If you're going, I don't know, to Germany, to France, anywhere and telling you, please show your passport, everyone pulls it out and thinks it's normal. And in Poland, when they tell someone to show it, they think it's a restriction of freedom. Where's the logic here? It means that we can die here and we can hide 500 people a day, and abroad we will observe restrictions because we are out of our country. Testing. We said it was wrong from the start. Now it is too late for all these sanitary regimes, indeed the hula virus is already over the world. But there's a question about the tests, the mutations, that's the question that's already been asked here. Who really controls this? Where are all these state institutions? After all, we would like to know how the genotyping process progresses, how many different mutations there are, what they look like, and not just out of curiosity, just for knowledge. Part of society just wants to be well-informed. If the Minister of Health says that he will only introduce restrictions when there are no beds available, and we keep increasing the number of beds, then I ask why any health policy at all and why we need this Minister of Health. Let's turn all the beds in the system into covidowe and wait for people to naturally die out, let's not do anything. Well, that's a thing that should never fall out of the mouth of the Minister of Health. The minister is to prevent, to reduce the inflow of people to hospitals, not increase the number of beds. And remember, these beds have to be served. Immunisation obligation. This is what we have talked about many times, at least with regard to some workers. So what? We talked about this, there was a debate, and this was also the subject of Marshal Witek. It's another week and another week. We're learning that since March we may have introduced, but we don't know for which groups. Minister, more firmness, more decision-making and more simple communication. [[Timer signal]] Finally, I'm going to say yes. I'll leave you with the chart before Christmas. Keep him in front of you. This green line, this peak, are deaths in Poland. Keep it in front of your eyes and in your memory. And, please, enforce all together, demand that the Minister of Health be firm and make firm decisions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u42	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u43	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you didn't really answer my question. And that's where I'm gonna start. How many studies have been carried out towards the Omicron variant in Poland. None? Is that why you didn't answer? Or just one test of the woman who flew to China? That's what Senator Malecka-Libera asked. Please respond in writing, Minister. What are the rules for testing Omicron? Who... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: But...]] [[Minister, don't argue with the senator. Okay?]] Question: How many tests have been performed and not been found? And now I'm going back to the bill and to the NOPs. NOP is a disorder that occurs 4 weeks after vaccination. The exception is BCG. There is a provision in this Act that up to 5 years will be reimbursed. I understand that the period recommended by the World Health Organization will be respected. The side effects are very rare. In Poland 1 NOP occurs on 10,000 vaccinations, and heavy NOPs, which are life-threatening, are extremely rare. There are only 3 groups of reactions that are described as severe undesirables, i.e. T88. 1, Y58, Y59. Most often it is about accidental health disorders that occur at the same time as vaccination and are not necessarily caused by this vaccination. That's the first reason. The second reason is that the incorrect vaccination is caused either by a poor administration or by a defect of the vaccine. Another is the action of the vaccine itself, e.g. allergic to any of its ingredients and which is the most common, probably more frequently than the first one not to follow the contraindications of vaccination. This is what we pediatricians have been saying for many years when vaccinations from the vaccination calendar are mandatory to people who are afraid of vaccination, to this group of antibodies. If the child is well qualified, as indicated for the vaccine, and there are no associated diseases that prevent vaccination, then there will be no adverse reaction, or NOP. Of course, the NOP can be reported and I understand that it will be in this system too. It's about using this new fund. This is, of course, a law to be supported. It's very good that she is. Perhaps some people will be tempted to inoculate, knowing that if there were any undesirable symptoms, then they will have financial assistance. Waccinology is a very difficult department, Minister. And actually, in this matter, you should rely solely on the experts you have. There's beautiful advice, there's fantastic names, there's great people, only the state doesn't use what they say or you use very little. Senator Małecka-Libera was just talking about the effects. We are the leader in the number of deaths in Europe. And there is no doubt that quick action is required. Because in my opinion, Minister, among these people... You say they're not vaccinated. What does that mean? Do you think... They're just as important people as anybody else. They're just ill-educated, they probably don't know they should get vaccinated. There's no excuse... Because it sounded a little like that to me, as an excuse: they didn't inoculate, so they got sick. But it is the duty of the Minister and the Government to make these people aware that they are risking their lives, that this is going to end badly. And it seems to me that this education that has been so far is absolutely insufficient. And finally, the very important thing you don't talk about is it's like it's still hanging in the air. Right now, we're starting to vaccinate small children from the age of five. Minister, we have a beautiful schedule of mandatory vaccinations. Did you and your boss give this calendar vaccination against COVID? Do you think that a parent who is not convinced to vaccinate has the right to rule on a child and condemn them, I take it in quotes, God forbid, to die, to be infected with a virus? Why are there mandatory vaccinations against other diseases and vaccinations against COVID, as far as I know, including a compulsory vaccination calendar for children? He should be. The baby is a little man, but this is the man who trusts the one who... I have said this many times and this is repeated by the spokespersons of the rights of the child, especially Marek Michalak put it into our head that the child is not the property of the parents, he is a small man, he has the same constitutional rights as an adult. And if any person in this world is harming him, he's criminalized. The state should take care of this child's well-being, so I am calling for Blitz to include vaccination against COVID on the list of compulsory vaccinations for children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u44	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Raphael the locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u45	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Minister! 2 years ago, the Polish government was confronted with an unprecedented phenomenon such as the epidemic of Coronavirus, and from the beginning fought against it a struggle that had to take account not only of the presence in the environment of a biological fact, dangerous to people, but also of patients, well calculated, had to take into account the good of the economy, had to take into account the right information policy. This fight against necessity was burdened with the risk of difficult decisions, decisions which in retrospect might have been inappropriate at a given time, but they were made on the basis of the knowledge at a given point. Unfortunately, the Polish government had to confront another unpleasant phenomenon. With a complete lack of empathy on the part of the opposition, which, taking advantage of the fact that such a wide range of problems were outlined, any inconsistencies, used every inaccuracy for a political attack. Minister, I know that you have made decisions with great difficulty, with great effort, with great commitment, very carefully weighing right. As a doctor, I have the conviction that this effort, which you made, served Polish patients, served Polish society, served Polish doctors, served the Polish economy in the best possible way. It was not possible to prevent deaths, prevent diseases, but what you did, in my deepest conviction, records you as heroes of this difficult time. Poles appreciate it. Thank you for this fortitude, and I apologize for those sad, unfair, and aggressive words that have been uttered in this room. They don't help you, they don't help you fight the epidemic, but we can't change that, even though we're trying. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u46	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I should probably start out traditionally, as in such debates it begins, i.e. with the words "I" as a doctor, but I decided to speak because I am not a doctor. And I'll start provocatively. I wish that, in the case of health care, there would be a certain balance between doctors' statements and patients' statements or potential patients. I will speak a little provocatively, because what is the subject of my experience, the experience of such a social, is the result of numerous messages, various messages, not only from this room, that the health care is terrible, that doctors, nurses, nurses are dying, that we are going to collapse in health care. And this continues in various messages, including media, which causes a very large group of patients to give up treatment or postpone various treatments. Among my closest friends, friends several have postponed various treatments because of the opinion that they can easily catch Coronavirus during their stay in the hospital, but also because they believe that the state of health care is such that they themselves will add an unnecessary additional burden to her in very difficult times. Only one of my friends decided to do the procedure. As I recall, it was a surgical procedure, a knee. All the other treatments are putting off. I very much want this responsibility for words and certain assessments to be high enough in the Senate to make us realize that, in addition to these pro-implantation actions, educational actions... I would like us to be precise in the information and remember about those who cannot postpone the oncology, especially those who can't. I very much want us to act on behalf of these patients, because they need to feel confident about health care, so that our message is not a reason to postpone various visits, including diagnostic visits, because this over-prescription mortality also has its source. Today, my call is primarily for the precision of our information to be balanced in terms of pandemic status and the need to safeguard the interests of all those patients who have to go to health care must be diagnosed. Because their fate is conditioned by the opinion of the health care provider as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u48	Thank you, Senator. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Mr. Marshal, can I use an additional 5 minutes?]] Of course. Senator Beat Małecka-Libera, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u49	Thank you very much. I never thought I'd argue with a doctor. Mr. Senator, what is empathy? Empathy is feeling in the situation of others, understanding them. Empathy for healthcare professionals is the understanding of the patient. With all due respect to the senator, the charge that the opposition isn't empathetic to the government is simply totally wrong. From the beginning, we advise, we ask, we appeal for the government and the Minister of Health to pursue what they should do. It's about the decisions of the Medical Council, the opinions of health experts... It's not like we're talking about anything else. Where do you see the lack of empathy? The fact that we rely on other countries' experiences is a lack of empathy? Our empathy is directed towards patients because they have the right to doubt. We try to understand them, and that's why we talk so much about education, about the information we provide to patients. You, Senator, thank you for your fortitude and call the Ministry of Health a hero. And I call the heroes of all those people who have been around sick beds every morning. They're heroes to me. Now they can work in the right suits, but remember what their work looked like last year. They're real heroes. And the government is here to rule, and to ensure safety, to care for people's lives and health. For me, the Minister of Health, who should guide the system, who should be the most important person for the sick and for all health professionals, has become a heartless politician. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u50	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I'm closing... Aha, is the representative... Oh, I'm closing here, but I'm informing you that the conclusions... Give me the list. [[Talking in the O.R.]] For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the senators Alexander Swed and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska have submitted their speeches to the minutes and that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing to Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the Law on the Covering Appendix. The text of the Act is contained in print No 594, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 594 A and 594 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ministers! I am pleased to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Law on Coverage, adopted by the Sejm on 9 December 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, we have considered this law on 10 December, because this is a law that has been submitted as a matter of urgency, and the discussion has actually focused on the content of the law and on what the legislators of our House have proposed. The purpose and subject of the Act is to introduce a cover supplement which will be paid for 1 year in 2022. This cover supplement will depend on the amount of income that individuals have, i.e. the income criterion. The amount of this income criterion is determined at PLN 2 thousand 100 on a 1-person holding, because such person usually has more difficult living conditions, and PLN 1 thousand 500 per person on a multi-member holding. The amount of the allowance, Dear State, is also varied. It will amount to PLN 400 for 1-person holding, PLN 600 for 2 or 3-person holding, PLN 850 for 4 and 5-person holding and PLN 1 thousand 150 for a larger holding. A slightly higher rate is provided for households where the main source of heating is solid fuel boiler, fireplace, goat, heater. There these amounts amount to PLN 500 for one-person holding, PLN 750 for two and three-person holding, PLN 1 thousand 62 50 for a household consisting of 4 or 5 persons and PLN 1 thousand 437 50 for a holding of at least 6 persons, i.e. more than 5 persons. The law also defines the concept of energy poverty for the purposes of this regulation. The legislator accepted such a definition that energy poverty means a situation in which a household run by 1 person or by several persons jointly in a single-family housing unit or in a single-family housing unit where there is no economic activity being carried out here, because this is for individuals It cannot ensure a sufficient level of heat, cooling and electricity to supply equipment and lighting when the farm meets the following conditions: low income, high energy expenditure and living in a low energy efficiency premises or building. These allowances, Dear State, will be paid by the municipality. The municipality shall be authorised to dispose of these funds. On the basis of the conclusions, the funds will be transferred by the voivodships and energy distributors are obliged to inform the residents that they can benefit from such a cover supplement. During the discussion, the legislators drew attention to the wording of the articles. The committee did not finally resolve the matter at its meeting. The motion that I made, for the adoption of a law without amendments, did not obtain a majority. The votes are four out of four. As far as I know, some of the legislative proposals will be consumed at this meeting on the initiative of the Economic Committee, whose report will be presented in a moment by Senator Piecha. That concludes my report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u52	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law on Coverage Supplement adopted by the Sejm on 9 December. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Except that yesterday I received a request, but in order to clarify the provisions of the Act, to present 2 amendments consulted with the Climate Ministry. The first of these amendments is that in Article. 2 (2) By way of derogation from point (b) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1, the following definitions shall apply: 1, for the period from 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022 and shall be paid in two equal instalments, by 31 March 2022 and by 2 December 2022. Where the person referred to in paragraph 1 is a person. 1, shall apply for the payment of the cover allowance later than 2 months before the expiry of those periods, the cover allowance shall be paid once, as soon as the allowance has been granted; paragraph. 11 to read: The granting by the mayor, mayor or city president of the protective allowance does not require a decision to be taken. The refusal to grant a shielding allowance, the revocation or amendment of the right to that allowance and the settlement of the case of an unduly collected cover supplement shall require a decision to be taken; after paragraph. 11 plus paragraph. 11a and 11b are replaced by the following:.11a. The Mayor, the Mayor or the President of the City shall send the applicant information on the granting of the protective allowance to the e-mail address indicated by him, provided that the applicant has indicated the e-mail address in the application for payment of the protective allowance. Where the applicant has not indicated an e-mail address in the application for payment of the protective allowance, the governor, the mayor or the president of the city shall inform the applicant of the possibility of receiving information from that authority on the granting of the protective allowance. The failure to receive information on the granting of the cover allowance shall not prevent the payment of this allowance. This amendment aims to improve the allocation of the cover allowance by simplifying the procedure in the law. And there's Amendment 2. Art. By way of derogation from point (a) of Article 15, the following shall be added: 5c Act as amended by Art. 9, lodged between the date of entry into force of this Law and 31 December 2022, shall be left unrecognized. In the current version of the act, the provision concerns applications submitted from 1 January 2022. This amendment is justified in view of the ongoing parliamentary work on this law, the date of entry into force of which has not been fixed rigidly. It is possible to enter into force at a later date than 1 January 2022 and therefore the proposed amendment will safeguard the interests of those who apply for the payment of the energy allowance until the date of entry into force of the act. These two amendments are on the hands of your marshal. Thank you. [[Signed?]] Yeah, I signed it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u54	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. I don't see... He's willing. Senator Bury. Tell me which one is the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u55	I think the two senators will be able to answer me. My question is about quotas. So far there is an energy supplement that is included in this amendment. Next year, if I remember correctly, the state budget was to secure funds of PLN 1.5 billion in addition to energy. Now, on the other hand, it is said that the cover supplement will have a budget of PLN 4.7 billion. I would like to ask: does this add up, or is this 4,7 billion in the amount of PLN 1.5 billion that was intended to be used as an energy supplement?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u56	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u57	I answer that question. That doesn't add up. The amount that is secured on this supplement is PLN 4.7 billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u58	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Piotr Dziadzio like to speak on this bill? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: I think it was presented and...]] Good. Thank you, sir. At present, senators may submit no more than half a minute of a request to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? There's no... Oh, there he is. Senator Piech. Minister, I'd like to speak to you for a moment. [[But that's a short question about prices.]] But... [[Okay, okay.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u59	I have a question for the Minister about fuel prices, coal prices, electricity prices, oil prices. Have the prices that rose so high in 2021 stabilised? What are the trends? Will they be declining, or will they continue to remain at such a high level?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the senator's question, I must say that today's situation is not stabilized and there are no clear trends at the moment that would tell us that we have stable prices for both gas, oil and other fossil fuels, e.g. hard coal in this case. Nevertheless, all the analyses that are carried out by independent institutions, as well as by us, indicate that the price stability of energy raw materials can be stabilised. - It's very likely. In the first quarter of 2022
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u61	Thank you. Are there any other questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Here's what I'm going to say: ladies and gentlemen, the PiS is the master of solving problems that it's multiplying itself. This bill is a clear proof of that. You're introducing a shielding supplement, but you're taking an energy supplement, one is going to replace the other. Well, somebody would've thought it was a good thing, 'cause this cover supplement is taller. But the energy allowance was granted to people in need of support for an unlimited period of time, and the cover allowance is granted only for 2022. In this bill, you are noisy saying that you are also introducing a support programme for energy-sensitive consumers. And here's the problem, because this noisy program contains a description of one calendar year. There are municipalities, places where the price of gas, the price of heat rises by 400, 500, 600%. You only include aid for those for whom the income criterion for a single-member holding does not exceed PLN 2 000 100. And I will remind you that today's energy allowances paid include people who in the last quarter of the calendar year have achieved a revenue of not more than PLN 2 000 66 99 gr. In a moment, January 1st, we will raise the lowest salary to PLN 3 000 20. Well, show me a one-man farm that can hold on to 2,000 100 zlotys. You will not include this addition of people who work at the lowest national level. Moreover, you also introduce additions of PLN 400 to PLN 1 thousand 125 plus PLN 25 in case the cottage is heated exclusively with a boiler, gas, but you say that the income criterion that falls on persons cannot be greater than PLN 1 thousand 500. Today, the apartment allowance is granted to a person whose income is not less than PLN 1 thousand 550 24 gr. So who do you want to save with this cover? But I'll tell you why. Because this government project is not the result of a thoughtful, smart energy policy, but it's done on a cap-cap, stupid, because you have to give something else because polls are falling. So you're taking one, the other you're trying to get extraordinarily fast, because this bill went to the Council of Ministers without any consultation, even an inter-ministerial consultation. If you had at least consulted inter-ministerially, you would have known on the basis of information from the Minister of Family and Social Policy that these criteria, which you apply, are not feasible for those who are really in need. The amount of PLN 3 000 20 in the case of a family in which there is one person working and earning the lowest national and one child, will cause her not to get on this supplement... sorry for the word "grab" will not receive this supplement. You're saying that a dollar for a dollar, which means that every penny that comes through the threshold is going to be less 400 zlotys... sorry, it's going to be less than 600 zlotys, because in the case of a two-member family, it's 600 zlotys. So we already know that the weakest won't get the lowest amount of cover. It is unbelievable that by selling greenhouse gas emission rights for which the government will receive this year... sorry, in the coming year or this year will receive PLN 23 billion... You want to cover for those most in need of spending PLN 4 billion 700 million, and you have received PLN 23 billion. At the same time, I will remind the High House that the Sejm has just rejected all our amendments to make it easier for citizens to use cheaper sources of electricity, and this is the source of photovoltaics, in general renewable energy. He turned them down. And it seems... 23 billion zlotys of income to the state budget, and 4 billion 700 million zlotys are spent on a cover-up, which includes an energy supplement. Just now Minister Grandpa told us that it is difficult to predict what the energy prices are going to be in 2023, so the cover supplement, which even the poorest will not get it all, is what you want to do. How can you do that? A tadpole that chases the cost. By the way, this cover supplement does not include entrepreneurs at all, and yet the price of energy has a horrendous impact on the price of each product, so the poorest one who will pay more for electricity, more expensive for gas, more expensive for coal, will also pay more for bread, butter, for basic products. I'm not going to talk about some TVs, because it's really too much, as it turns out, in our reality. How can you say you're protecting the weakest if you're not actually protecting them? What's more, you've been preparing this bill so quickly that there's practically no way to use the 2 installments you're setting up. Because this allowance will be paid in 2 instalments, equal instalments: by 31 March and by 2 December. But this is what you say for the 4 billion 700 million PLN: if in the first half of the year the allowances paid exceed 65% this amount of PLN 4 billion 700 million, or the amount of PLN 3 billion 55 million, then in the next six months another indicator will be applied to the conversions, there will no longer be a second equal instalment. You grant the Minister of Finance the opportunity to reduce this conversion. In one law, the provision of an article. 16 contradicts the provision of Article. 1 paragraph 8. What do you mean you can count? So you don't even know how to divide 4 billion 700 million zlotys into 2 equal parts, so that in the first half of the year, and in the second half of the year to a citizen who gets 2 gr, this supplement was granted. You can't split that $4 billion $700 million in half. Therefore, there is no other choice but to say that this law needs to be improved. And it has to be said that even when you decide on this kind of cover supplement that we have to be behind, because we can't leave citizens without support and help, you can't prepare it properly in the ministry because you're in a hurry, because you're in a rush. You can't really work like that. And there's nothing to tell citizens that a good government takes care of them, because you take one and reduce the other allowance, not giving them two installments. I submit, Mr. Marshal, amendments that will put up with this apparent injustice of 2 installments. Well, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u63	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As Senator Kochan said, it is not enough, too late, and it will not limit the cost, which today is the main concern of Poles. Dear Power Representatives, you are more and more dear to us because you are costing us more and more. Our country costs a lot of money for your policy of breaking up institutions and legal order. It is already costing us tens of billions of zlotys, which belong to us from the budget of the European Union and will not go to Poland because of your policy Your incompetence and your arrogance, your continuing dispute with everyone and everything, your lust for power and your desire for money. The people you call to high positions and their gross incompetence cost the nation much more than your party profit for calling them to these positions and these additional votes in the Sejm. For these voices, you cast the fate and prosperity of our country to be devoured. Because you say inflation, it's expensive everywhere. It's true, except on average in Europe... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Am I disturbing you? I'm sorry. [[Mr. Senator, you don't mind the minister. We had to settle something because the minister has to go to the vote.]] It can be done quietly, Mr. Marshal. [[I'm the one for the comments, Mr. Senator. Proceed.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. You say: energy prices are rising all over Europe. It's true, but in Poland they grow by 1/3, maybe by 40%. faster than in all of Europe. Yes, the remaining prices in Europe are also rising, but at a rate of more than 2 times lower than in Poland. And in Poland, inflation is almost 8%. And he's tallest than... you know, since when, gentlemen and ladies of the piss? Since December 2000, for an even 21-year period. And that's the effect of your politics. [[31 years.]] No, no, for 21 years, since 2000. What's the effect? Well, the effect is that during the coming holidays each Pole will be offered a more modest dinner than the one he sat to in previous years. Don't pretend you don't see it. The yeast is, the Poles are afraid of it. This is the main concern of Poles today. You must realize that there are already families in Poland And it's not thousands, it's millions of people. That limit the temperature in their own homes to the first, because they can't afford heating. In recent weeks, the country has been aware of shocking increases in energy prices in the Podpoznan municipalities. The inhabitants of Tarnów Podgórny, Buku or Kazimierz received 170% higher bills in some cases. A national protest committee was established. Letters were written to the regulator, to the Minister of State Assets, to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. The result of this is, among others. It's the law we're considering right now. As I say, it was done too late, it was done too little. But what else is the problem? What local government officials are talking about, who took part in the session of the Sejm committee on this subject. I quote: "It was possible to get the impression that the political interests of the rulers were more important than wanting to help the inhabitants in this difficult situation. They questioned local government officials, even questioned them. The subject of privatisation and government of POs often returned. I remind you, the PO hasn't ruled for six years and two months. What is happening in Poland is solely the responsibility of the PiS. But that's the problem. Your attachment to power makes it impossible for you to even understand the situation of the people. You see expensive only as a political problem, not as a drama of people, Poles, your compatriots. Instead of focusing on helping, you're looking for guilty people everywhere but each other. Instead of fighting the cost, you fight those who speak of the cost. The NBP President should have been fighting for a long time to keep inflation in check. Many economists have warned against inflationary pressures for months, but you did not want to listen to their voices even in August. Even when inflation was already growing very clearly, President Glapiński denied it and continued to print banknotes to please Jarosław Kaczyński and his plans. When a reputable magazine, Global Finance, assessed the activities of the central banks and President Glapiński, was in the honorable third place, of course, you did not even consider this fact from the end. You decided to give him your own prize with the President's hands 2 months ago, when it was already known that this man was ruining Poland's public finances. You applied the same method we know a few years ago when the flowers were greeted at the airport by Prime Minister Szydło after the infamous loss of 1:27 at the European Council. So you're trying to expose yourself with propaganda, undeserved your own prizes. Do you think the electorate will believe everything is perfect? Really? I would appeal to the consciences of representatives of the PiS, but I am aware that when entering the government of PiS, many of you leave your conscience in the locker room and blindly realize the chaotic vision of one man whose effects today Poles see in their wallets. However, consider during the coming holidays the condition of our society, including those who voted for you. Some of them will probably continue to vote because they duplicate and share your right-wing views. But even these people are gonna see how hard these holidays are gonna be. When the representatives of your party earning millions of dollars on opaque business, collecting several tens of thousands of zlotys a month on the boards and supervisory boards of companies of the Treasury, will sit down to abundantly established Christmas tables, the average Pole will prepare a much more modest supper. Under the tree of an average Pole there will not be as many gifts as under yours, and some will not even reach their loved ones because they will not be able to afford gasoline. Deloitte has calculated that this year we will spend an average of 11% on holidays. more than a year ago. I quote: 'The main reason for the increase in expenditure'. It's not like we're gonna buy more. There are price increases in shops and petrol stations, which see more than 70% society. And what do you do then? You make billboards convincing that fuel prices in Poland are low. High Izbo, literally a few days ago the money.pl portal informed that in Wielkopolska Jastrow the prices of gas and energy will increase by, attention, 564%. To the representatives of the government and the ruling party, I have one question: what billboard are you going to put this time to pretend that everything is perfect again? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u65	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm after a good school of formal logic, such a 2-year-old, solid, and I know that truth can only result from the truth, and from the falsehood of anything. I'm gonna start with a little debate with our friend Magda Kochan, who said that PiS is the master in solving the problems that she creates. I don't think so. I believe that the government is not a master in solving problems that it is not the author of, or in solving problems that it has created. Because I said that the truth may be the result of falsehood, the final appearance or the whole speech is that I sign under it. I want to start by thanking the president of our club, Marcin Bosacki, who asked us to talk about inflation today, but then withdrew this request. Because we have so many excuses, so many good excuses to talk about inflation that it would be a shame to have this extra time. We saved time, but I will talk, in big shortcuts, about inflation at 3 levels. Well, inflation is not just an economic phenomenon. It is a phenomenon that also functions in psychology. It also occurs in large social groups with specific consequences. What I'm trying to say is inflation is killing us. It kills our savings, kills our economy, kills our investments, kills our planning opportunities in business ventures, especially those that are ambitious, the longer ones. Inflation simply kills, it is a devastating phenomenon for every society and citizen, and this, as I said, in three dimensions, not only in this economic one, but also in this psychological one. It also has specific implications in terms of motivation, activity, including planning capacity. It causes phenomena that we call pessimism, and from time to time it also causes serious physical disorders. I am talking about this because we need to be aware of what phenomenon we are fighting and what measures we are trying to apply to this phenomenon. I sympathize with the government, and I say this so that there is no doubt, because the scale of the difficulties is enormous. And I want to say that I know that this scale of difficulty is not located solely in the sources of various government decisions, because some of them are external, and for these external conditions we do not have in the tide of Putin's policy, this is pandemic, these are the various crises that exist in particular groups. But what does a wise government do in times of economic prosperity? It simply secures itself in times of crisis, tries to make the security of its countrymen and the Polish state, in short, increase. A year and a half ago, almost one and a half, I said here that I am concerned about the fall in investment expenditures, those which are the source of government initiatives, that I am concerned that part of the investment is dragging in time, little is that in part of the tender procedures is annexation and some investments cost twice as much as they should or 3 times as much as they should. Senator Magda Kochan also talked about this, talking about energy security and decisions that would build us a stronger determination on energy prices than it might have been if the government had made certain decisions. Let me remind you: for 3 years the possibility of creating wind energy has been blocked, for next year very negative elements have been built for those investments that are related to photovoltaics. We are dealing with a situation where there is an extremely expensive energy supply for households, but also for businesses. So we have built various elements, sources that decide that inflation in us, as Senator Marcin Bosacki said, is twice as high as the average in Europe. This average in Europe is calculated by Eurostat, we know what the basket is, we know exactly how it is built. Of course, the contribution to Eurostat comes from the statistical offices of individual countries, but these data, which were collected at the end of November, are devastating and discrediting for us, they show that we have almost twice as much inflation as that which occurs as averaged in all European Union countries. I also want to make it clear that false information is that the source of this inflation, this large one, is related, for example. with rising fuel prices on global markets. In the Eurostat basket, this is exactly 4.6% And of course it's much higher in this basket than the rising price of coffee we don't produce, which is why I gave this example. I also want to show that the rise in prices, inflation, costs are composed of various, completely different elements, which the government has a direct impact on. What is the source of inflation? Some of these data can also be transferred outside. This is, of course, an increase in the cost of energy sources and the pandemic itself. You can say and estimate because it's done by experts that it's about 1.5%. In the basket, like I said, gasoline weighs 4.6%. There is also a decrease in the spending on central investment, which is more discussed, but with which less is done. This Ostrołęka is symbolic and worth mentioning, because these are billions. I would like to say that our inflation in the next year will also determine penalties, which Poland does not currently pay, but which are already charged, related to the existence of a Disciplinary Chamber, conflict and problems concerning mines in Bogatynia etc. That's not good enough. We are also currently reducing the capacity of local authorities themselves to respond to inflation. The financial weakening of local authorities is another source of inflation with those derivatives that are in the activities of various actors. Indeed, this is the biggest inflationary surge in over 20 years, as Senator Marcin Bosacki rightly said. I recall the enormous inflation in 1989 and 1990. I don't remember, because I wasn't in the world then, inflation in 1953, but I remember her delayed effects. How do they talk about current inflation, and how do experts define inflation? They say that inflation has a tail. And it's not a pug tail, but rather a crocodile, it's called. a long tail with many delayed effects that will be most painful especially for those who are the weakest, because they do not have the ability to react, they live on, day by day and do not have the reserve to react. Young Marriages With Children It is important for them to be able to anticipate, anticipate and invest, and to invest mainly in loans. These had to increase, and such a sudden increase was mainly due to the lack of reaction of the National Bank of Poland and the president of this bank when these reactions could be rational. If you believe President Glapiński will do everything possible to crush inflation, then... I am convinced that she will not apply for a second term because she is also the source of this phenomenon. [[Applause]] I also want to talk about one more thing. Expert forecasts for next year for inflation up to 5.8% are so difficult to accept that they assume that an investmentally weaker country The weaker country, because with weakened local governments, the weaker country, because the ill-responsive to inflation will have to bear the burden of several crises at the same time. We are talking mainly about pandemics and inflation, but these are not just crises. There are also crises of credibility, credibility in Europe, credibility in the world. We've got inflation here, too. I specially use the concept of inflation rather than expensive, because expensive refers only to articles, mostly consumer goods, goods. Inflation may have a broader meaning and may be a broader concept, and that is what we are dealing with now. At the same time, I would like to emphasise because there have been such assessments that inflation can be positive, that only that inflation that is demand-driven can be positive. This inflation is not in demand. [[Timer signal]] Finally, I wish everyone 2022 without President Glapiński, without inflation and without pandemic. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u67	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u68	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Why are energy prices rising? It's worth reaching for an independent NIK report on this. There is no need to come up with anything, he says simply: the rise in electricity prices did not prevent the Minister responsible for energy matters. The minister is the government. We as senators who took part in the meetings of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have heard about these promised great compensations. This compensation was specifically mentioned by Mrs Magdalena Kochan, and I will not repeat it. Not enough, the government also cheated on energy prices. First, Minister Sasin, as we all remember, promised several times that there would be a fund due to rising prices. Then it turned out that it was only a lie of the election, so it was perceived. Today, the government's abandonment translates into ubiquitous cost. This is a series of events and no one will cause, no matter how he swears, that it will be different: where energy prices affect manufacturing costs, where we know in advance, prices are rising. Today, all of us who go shopping can see that the government has turned our wallets into wallets. Once it was possible to shop, and today, as a result of government actions, these are not purchases. The monthly amount, attention, is to be 14 zlotys per person in a 5-person family. I would like to ask these wise people today, the most expensive government in history, about which Senator Bosacki spoke, what 14 zlotys will be able to buy. According to the law, the proposal will be prepared, determined by the municipality by a resolution. My question is: is this the best solution? Isn't it better to introduce a unified, universal application for the whole of Poland? If each municipality constructs its own proposal, will it not cause another mess that the government will serve us? And now the most important thing I want to say to you is the Senators. What did our Czech neighbors do? They reduced the VAT for electricity, attention, from 21% to zero. This applies to final recipients for November and December. Smart government. As far as Germany is concerned, which you do not like so much, backwards, energy and gas suppliers have been able to apply reduced VAT since the beginning of 2020. Please, they've reduced the RES support fee by almost half. That's what our neighbors do. Today I ask the government what you want to propose to Poles and how to refinance this increase for the whole 2021 year? 'Cause unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, prices have been rising. Until now, there has been an energy supplement for vulnerable customers. This supplement will disappear in connection with the entry into force of this law. How many Poles benefited from this supplement, and what was the amount? I was really surprised to learn that the current government has discovered that there is such a thing as energy poverty. Bravo! In addition, interestingly, the government is only linked to electricity and gas consumption, while between 70% and 80% fixed expenditure on housing is expenditure on heating and heating of water. We're talking about poor cold babies. And which poor families heat up electricity and gas? Why isn't that even taken into account? What happens to the projects of 2 laws that were submitted in the previous term of the Sejm, designed to protect against real energy poverty by subsidising investments in heating energy efficiency and effectively proposing aid, benefits? Another project, updated, is in the marshal's staff. I remind the government here that this project lies in the marshal's staff. You wouldn't have to come up with anything, everything's really ready, and it's been a long time, and it's really enough to get to work. Look, there's a famous saying, often parents say that to their children: if you can't do it, listen to the smart ones. And finally I ask you, Dear Government, do not tell foolishness, the people are wise. Because you're saying that these raises are either Brussels or Russia. Don't go that way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u69	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Protection Appendix Act is a document that has two faces. The first is a rather inefficient attempt to partially compensate for the poorest people's expenditure associated with the surge in energy prices, but the second is much darker and points out that the government is playing a cynical role in the problem of constantly rising inflation. Add: inflation, for which government policy is fully responsible and late, and according to some experts completely misguided actions of the National Bank of Poland. In addition, attempts to translate this extremely dangerous phenomenon into a purely pandemic effect on the economy seem completely unauthorised in this context. It is not enough that inflation in Poland is much higher than what we see in the European Union, but its dynamic growth started long before the outbreak of the pandemic. It is worth recalling that in February 2020 it amounted to more than 4.5%. Draft Coverage Act Therefore, it should be considered in the broad context of the ubiquitous cost, which is not limited to the costs of energy carriers alone. In practice, this means that within a number of factors affecting the surge in cost of living, the government tries to reduce only one of them and launches the entire propaganda apparatus, which is supposed to build such an impression that this attempt solves all the problems of Polish people, especially this group of the poorest. Astronomical prices of food or other basic articles in many cases change the safe life so far, relatively safe lives of Poles into a shaky existence, especially in the case of this very poor group, and this group has been affected by the financial collapse of family budgets. Let us remind you that until recently, both Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Minister Sasin were loud and clear in all media, as well as in the parliament stand, that the government does not intend to raise energy prices at all and that it is de facto fake news disseminated by the opposition. Later, the same politicians swore that the increases would not affect households to the slightest extent. It can therefore be seen that the credibility of the government is practically zero in this area. It is worth mentioning another danger. Insane inflation in Poland can, according to experts, turn economists into stagflation in the near future, i.e. the inhibition of economic growth. Because? As foreign investors are withdrawing and, moreover, our country has been suspended from EU funds due to the government's failure to comply with the rule of law. Moreover, the increase in life costs is accompanied by an unprecedented level of public waste, starting with the billions invested in the power plant that was demolished before it even started to operate and ending with the multi-million-dollar embezzlements indicated in the reports of the Supreme Auditorium. All this shows clearly that the presented cover bill is a mere fig leaf, an attempt to mask the inability and bad will, which is becoming more visible from day to day. The cost of such feeding on the state is borne by all of us, taxpayers. That's why it's an extremely cynical behavior. What were you talking about, Senator Lover? It is speaking of leaning over the fate of the poorest, when the current government has led to the highest level of poverty in history. There are now more than 2 million people living in Poland on the verge of poverty, and this number is still increasing. The question therefore arises as to whether the ubiquitous cost means an action which is to be made to a bankrupt, massively indebted country by the bankruptcy of most of its citizens. We can't afford a country like this. The strategy of increases and then partial compensations, as well as central price control, are methods known from the previous system, when the country was clearly bankrupt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing the cost of Poland. We're discussing the inflation that started this year in our country. We are discussing the most important, most serious problem that concerns the Polish economy and the lives of citizens. Our generation belongs to this generation, which still remembers the crazy inflation of the eighties. When I became a teacher in 1984 at school, my salary was PLN 8.5 thousand. When I finished this job in the late '80s, I became mayor. The salary for the same work amounted to approx. PLN 1 million. So our generation remembers that the money we received in our pockets every month was less and less worth. Every month we were given some compensation, some cover amounts, which in fact aggravated the problems in the economy. Our generation is afraid of those times and is afraid that what was then our experience can happen today. In 2015, when we are As a Civic Platform and PSL, inflation in Poland was zero, and even was a deflation, i.e. a fall in prices on various types of products. In order for this inflation to be zero or close to zero, we, but also previous governments, have taken various kinds of action, bearing in mind that inflation always leads to the destruction of the economy, to the destruction of the standard of living of citizens. Today this inflation, well, it moved very hard. It's really a lot. These 8.9% which today is our inflationary experience, is the most serious problem for the economy, for the functioning of the state. Few people pay attention to this, but inflation is de. In fact, the savings tax. So all those who have any money saved that is in their accounts at zero interest rates lose so much of their savings. And the level of savings, the level of savings in Poland is unfortunately one of the lower in Europe. So far, every government has always encouraged saving, raising resources for the future, for new projects. Inflation contributes to the fact that this rational behaviour of citizens is, as a matter of fact, being destroyed. Today we are talking about an increase in prices of various types of products. He's annoying in households too. Someone counted how the price of a basket of basic products changed compared to the price of 2015. President Duda, participating in the 2015 election campaign, threatened us with high prices of various kinds of products; showed us a shopping cart, told us how much it cost. Today the price of exactly the same product basket The same, including promotions in markets, etc. It is almost twice as high as in 2015. And these are basic products, these aren't luxuries. If you don't know what it is. These are basic bread products. The same, the same milk. Same thing, eggs. It's the same. Besides, you're all buying your own... Either the ladies are buying or their husbands are shopping. I've been in shops a lot, too, so I can see it. And I'm surprised at the changes we see every day. Those things we're trying to save here... Of course, I don't deny it, it's all good, it's just, ladies and gentlemen, these protective measures are kind of like compensation in the 1980s. Unfortunately, this could result in another increase in inflation. Unfortunately, the rulers do not anticipate this. And they're not looking for any reason why this is happening. They're pushing responsibility to the pandemic. In part, it's true. They push at world prices, too, that's true. But every governing person should first ask: "What can I do?" or "What have I done right or wrong?" This is kind of the most important thing. Our colleague, Senator Sagatowska, says here, it's the Platform's fault. Of course, it's Tusk's fault and all the saints. But it's been six years since the PiS ruled. Six years. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Everyone's important, as well as the saints... most people seem to be saints, don't they? Even those who are alive, and certainly those who are gone. So what was done wrong? We're talking about energy prices. This is indeed a serious problem with different circumstances, but, as I say, you have to look where the mistakes are made by those who rule at a given moment. The classic example of Ostrołęka, which we give, shows that the price of energy is also affected by the cost in this energy. If 1.5 billion for the tower, plus later funds for demolition, plus the ordered products for this building plant in Ostrołęka, which means at least 2.5 billion PLN passes, flows like water on a duck... Ladies and gentlemen, this is not right. No one is responsible for this mistake. No one was told that this was a bad decision, a mistake costing PLN 2.5 billion. Today they say 5 billion, 10 billion, etc. Well, as we used to talk about 1 million zlotys in the budget, we were wondering what to say, and today you're throwing billions, like it's the money you put into the tray in the church. These are really serious amounts. What do you say now? There's gonna be a gas plant building, but... well, that's something to say. We as Platform have abandoned the construction of coal power plant in Ostrołęka. We stopped this project at a very early stage. We analyzed whether he was rational, and we thought he wasn't. The next ones came, and they said, "We're doing it." It's simple. And three billion zlotys are thrown out. Nobody's responsible. Everybody's happy. [[Applause]] How does this happen? It's affecting inflation. It affects the cost. And now they're saying we're building a gas plant. That's another billion zloty. Where'd you get the gas for that gas plant? Through a port in Świnoujście? No, they say it's from Kaliningrad. Russian. Yes? And we're about to have the same problem. Today, in Ostrołęka, symbolically already, there are 3 blocks, one works, and the rest is in an emergency state, is repaired or... Actually, the main problem is that there is a shortage of coal. Ostrołęka was part of Gdansk Energia, and today it belongs to Orlen. Why does only 1 block work there? Because there's no coal. But coal's on the mines. And today it is considered to bring 45 thousand tons of coal for Ostrołęka, because it is not... Do you know where it came from? [[Voice from the room: Russia?]] Not from Russia. But it's not supposed to be Polish coal, it's Colombian coal. There's talk going on. Ladies and gentlemen, here's the deal. Orlen has terminated contracts for the supply of coal to his power plants. From now on, it's to be realized... Until now, it has been done by PKP Cargo, a state-owned company. And it was to be done by their company... Meanwhile, PKP Cargo sold 2,000 charcoals, among others. to the Czech Republic. Yesterday or the day before yesterday Orlen announced a tender for someone to deliver this coal and ordered 600 charcoals. It's possible they'll be in Poland somewhere. Is anyone responsible for this kind of decision? [[Voice from the hall: Poles.]] This is a really scary situation. I'm running out of time. I don't want to talk about all these things here, but I think one of the most serious reasons for inflation is waste and lack of responsibility. And this is seen in various types of companies of the Treasury, which are responsible for basic matters, for the welfare of Poles. If country I'm talking about my piss buddies. You're not gonna have any control over this, that these companies are somehow going to be subject to public authority... [[Timer signal]] ...that's the kind of thing that's gonna continue to happen. You have eliminated the Treasury Ministry, creating a Ministry of Assets, etc., by scattering all companies between individual ministers. So? There's no uniform supervision, everyone pulls their way, puts one smarter one in there. From the second, they leave after six months. The Management Board of the company has changed six times in the previous term of office in Gdansk Energa, which resulted in changes in the companies of the daughters, etc. Can you imagine, I don't know, that every six months the management of this facility, where two or three people work, will change at the workplace? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] That's impossible. And in a company that has such important goals, people are exchanged as they please. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time.]] I'm almost done, of course. Finally, the ruling state, pay attention, I ask you to do this... If you really want to fight inflation and reduce the cost, look at it. a great waste, which unfortunately occurs throughout the public sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u73	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jolanta Hibner, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum to the proposed amendment, or, in fact, the new law on the cover allowance, there is a support programme. The support program, as we understand it, is to support. So we're wondering who you're supporting and how. First of all, he supports himself unevenly. Yeah, but, you know, there's a lot of income, there's a lot of opportunities. But what kind of support is it if it's for families over 5 people? is less than 50% than for those who live alone? Do they consume less energy or do they consume less gas? Are these people, these families really doing so well that they don't have to have this support? When we talk about support, we need to think about what this support looks like. Ladies and gentlemen, this support is that we are talking about a shielding supplement, which is protecting the weakest, but at the same time we are eliminating the energy supplement that has been for the weakest. So it's an act only for the public. Well, let's agree that this isn't a cover-up, it's not an analysis of the situation, poverty, of all the issues related to the imperfection of the social systems. It turns out that this is the same supplement, only otherwise called. It's easy to talk about shielding for anyone who's particularly needy. Next case: 2 equal instalments of payment of the cover allowance, instalments of the same amount. All right. And if it turns out that 2 installments for each will be greater than the money allocated this year? The rest is to be complemented by local governments, but local governments are not included as those that will receive money from you. Ladies and gentlemen, no, no, they have from their own pockets, from taxpayers' taxes, also from those poor families, to add to it to make a support program, cover. What's the shield then? How is she calculated? Ladies and gentlemen, that is not all. Shield. Once the shield is to be a shield for 6 million 840 thousand farms, or 52%. But it's already in another place for 4 million 840 thousand, and it's already 62%. Who calculated this? What mathematician? How come $4 million $840,000 is less... [[Voice from the room: More.]] ...more, that's 62%. , more than 6 million 840 thousand, which represents 52% ? I'll be honest with you, Nobel for that person. There's one more thing. It's an example. People have applied for compensation related to the current energy shield and have various arrears in payments, they have problems. Ladies and gentlemen, it turns out that this is all being eliminated, that energy shield is being removed. There will be another shield, a special shield. I wonder what else this is about, and how it's gonna extend... Electricity sellers and gas-fuel vendors are to develop support programmes which I understand will pass on to local governments regarding the deferral of the payment deadline, the distribution of them into instalments, redemptions, withdrawal from interest calculation. Ladies and gentlemen, now it's mid-December. When are they supposed to do this, if this supplement, this cover is supposed to be paid at the beginning of the year? These people don't have a heating season in June, just now. How's that supposed to be? Do you imagine that now all these companies that have closure, balance sheets, will leave all this behind and say no, no, we don't, because now we're going to be preparing a cover supplement? Well, I think somebody's lost it all. I can't imagine it. At the moment, all the energy allowances have been converted into shielding allowances. Let me tell you straight: right now, energy is lying, because we don't have a program, no program. What the colleagues were talking about is money thrown into the mud. This is not money that was spent according to technical skills, technical needs. Turns out it didn't work. In a moment it will show that all the money that we will pay for the Tours will cover the value of this Tour. We don't realize that? Does an argument with the Czechs give us any profit? Do we want to win something? Who's with who? We put ourselves in front of the European Commission, saying: they are not us. After all, we have our representative in the European Commission, we are in this Commission, we are in the European Council, we are in the European Parliament. How is it possible that where we have our representatives, where we participate in the work, we say "oni." Who's "they"? We're responsible for this, and if we're doing it wrong, we're gonna suffer the consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that now is the time, that if we're all about to verify ourselves in a moment, I'm addressing all my colleagues. It is the cards and the terrible future that awaits us, especially our children and our grandchildren. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u75	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogusława Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing the law on cover, and as I listen to all these statements, it feels like I'm at a party meeting of the Polish United Workers' Party. 'Cause I've heard it over and over again... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I wasn't part of this party either, but at meetings, I saw what they looked like. When it comes to saying, "You're doing something, you're guilty of everything..." Care for Poland. Of course, we all care about Poland and Poles. I believe that with concern for Poland we can call it that your representatives have just voted against money for Poland, that your representatives in the European Union are doing everything they can to make life difficult for our economy... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Really?]] Not everything in your term of office has been sold, distributed, moved out. [[It's a lie.]] Some things were lucky to be saved. Therefore, please do not act against Poles, because what else do you say? That is why I will vote in favour of Poles, not in favour of any party action. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u77	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. There's no... Remotely? Mr. Senator, can we hear you? [[Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator is arriving right now...]] Good. Then I ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to speak. We'll move the order.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm not going to say "I'm going to say "I'm going to say "I'm going to say "I'm going to say "I'm going to say "I'm going to say We are all in favour of this law, because it is in this particular situation, in a situation of raging inflation in Poland, 2 times higher than inflation in the euro area of the European Union, much higher than the monetary policy objectives set, where you will... This target is set at 2.5%. inflation with a deviation of 1%. Yes, it is a disgrace to the Monetary Policy Council in its current composition and the President of the NBP. But it doesn't apply to Poles. Poles today have a huge problem with inflation, with rising prices. I will no longer talk about fuel prices, I will not talk about energy prices, but the rise in food prices affects everyone, even those who do not have a car. I'll give you the most famous example, i.e. Increase in oil price by 60%, increase in meat price by 30% year by year, increase in vegetable price by 18% year by year. This list could be continued, which is why this bill is absolutely necessary. I have no doubt that we want to accept it over political divisions. Moreover, I have no doubt that the intention of everyone in this Chamber is to really help our citizens and citizens in this difficult situation. And that's why Also in the context of the discussion which has already taken place in this Chamber I have tabled an amendment which increases the financial resources for this purpose. I did it for a very simple reason. Any analysis that I had the opportunity to learn indicates that the resources saved for the implementation of this supplement may not be sufficient. Today, of course, we are having this discussion as a discussion about whether we want it or not, as a discussion that is a little out of context. Why? Because we do not know the detailed implementing acts, and they are crucial from the point of view of the persons entitled to the allowance. I mean, of course, the pattern of the proposal. We'd like that pattern to... Unless the government website has good information and this proposal is already published. Then, of course, I would ask for such information. But I would remind you that the entitled will have to submit it by the end of January, and this application must be accompanied by appropriate certificates, e.g. those confirming the amount of income for the previous year. Yes, I'm full of concern and concern. If someone disperses them, I'll be very happy. - whether authorised persons will be able to collect those documents which are necessary for their application, whether they will receive them from their employers, from the Social Security Office. I am concerned that the legislator has not proposed too few days to make such a proposal. We've talked a little bit about these questions that have appeared, e.g. in the context of current vulnerable electricity consumers. Can they receive an energy supplement? Will the new cover supplement replace the energy supplement? Will anyone be able to receive 2 extras? How many families will be covered by the bill? The Legal Office itself indicated in its opinion that it is 6 million 840 thousand farms, but elsewhere it is referred to as 4 million 840 thousand. There is a significant difference, therefore, for all the issues I mention in my speech, I will ask the representatives of the government to reply in writing. How many families are currently using the energy supplement? What is its total cost to the state budget? How much is behind in electricity and gas charges from individual customers? Will such people be automatically compensated for their debts, or will they continue to be charged interest? I would of course like to know, as do many Poles, what ultimately increases in energy prices for individual energy companies will be approved by the Energy Regulatory Office. These are questions that concern not only us in this Chamber, but also many citizens. And let me repeat: there are absolutely no other intentions in my speech. All I want is for the cover supplement we're preparing to reach out to everyone so that all those who are potentially entitled to it can benefit from it and that there is no shortage of budget resources. What's more, I don't even assume that these calculations have somehow been deliberately misspelled. I assume that some elements have perhaps not been included in this calculation, and that is why I am making an amendment increasing the financial resources for this task. If it turns out that they will not be fully earmarked for this purpose, it will, of course, improve in the appropriate procedure, it is always possible to adjust the budget. Please note that my entire statement is based on the principle of "myth." Together, we are responsible to Poles for ensuring that the legislative solutions that we adopt in the form of a cover-up act are as beneficial as possible from the point of view of the citizens. This procedure must be completed by them without nervousness, without the need to obtain documents in Following these considerations, I am proposing amendments to the bill, declaring in advance that I will be happy to work on them with representatives of all clubs and senate circles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski... [[Senator Klein now.]] Senator Kazimierz Kleina, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u80	That's how we agreed with Senator Gawłowski, who just arrived. To get more into the rhythm of our House's work, those five minutes or maybe even less useful. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I may have made a mistake in my emotions, and I'd like to correct it. It concerns the issue of the anticipated supply of gas to Ostrołęka. I don't even know if I said that, but just in case I straighten it out, because I could have said "Kaliningrad," and I should have said "Klaipeda." That's a pretty important difference. I don't know if I actually made that mistake, but I'm careful to straighten it out because this Klaipeda pipeline Poland is built for individual customers, households, is not thought to be able to supply gas to a large gas power plant. This gas pipeline is rising. Senator Orzechowska is right that we should speak and act together, and I agree with that all the time. And we, even very often, make such decisions. Let me give you an example, just one. In 2019 we adopted a law on wind energy at sea. The whole House voted for it, although there were doubts about it as well. Besides, the offshore wind power plant project was launched during the Civil Platform. I will also say that in the days of the PiS he was suspended for a period of 4 years. This time was wasted because this project was stopped. But in 2019 this law was launched and that's what we're happy about. However, it has been 2 years since 2019 and at that time the port in Gdynia has been properly designated as an installation port and ports in Łeba and Ustka as service ports. But in order for this project to work, that's where the investment should start. And they're not being implemented. And what will be the consequence of that? And I'm talking about it in the context that ours, your omissions, lead to higher costs, and consequently higher inflation, etc. So if the installation port, which must be an external port to be able to receive these huge installation ships, is to be a port in Gdynia, then there is a lot of work to be done. You don't do anything. There's a dispute at the Ministry of Infrastructure in the part responsible for it. We're talking about expensive, Mr. Senator, we're talking about expensive, but that's what makes it expensive. And it will turn out that the port in Gdynia will not be an installation port and it will be a port in Bornholm, the service ports will not be ports in Łeba and Ustka, but will be Danish ports, and the service fleet will be a service fleet it will not be a fleet of Polish boats, because there is no agreement between ministries, they cannot coordinate actions, but it will be a German fleet, which is waiting for this and is really good. [[How do you know that?]] Because I have been doing this subject for many years, and I have really great knowledge in this matter. I'm just talking about the fact that two years have already been lost, the investments should start, and the consequence of the fact that they haven't moved, is that we're just going to spend a lot more on all of this, so we're going to contribute to the waste of public money. And that's what I'm talking about, because inflation is always the consequence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u81	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will be the last to speak in this debate... [[Voice from the room: Don't provoke.]] [[Okay, um, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, ……]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ... and especially since before the break, there will be time for the Senators of the PiS to be able to supplement their knowledge, Google, search, find out. Because I actually agree with Senator Kleina that inflation is a pretty specific tax. I would rather call it a tax on the poor, because inflation hits the poor especially. You use so many words and say: climate policy, then a few facts. [[90 euros for allowances...]] Listen, Mr. Senator. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, but I would very much like to ask...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But no, Senator Gawłowski was still enrolled in...]] [[But he quit.]] I didn't give up once. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: He has not resigned.]] But listen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr Senator, after the break you will be able to speak in the debate.]] Climate and energy policy. There is one moment when the Heads of State discuss and agree, and a single country can block it. It's on the European Council. In 2007, the government of Jarosław Kaczyński agreed to climate and energy policy. On behalf of Poland, this document was signed by Lech Kaczyński. I invite you to an interview given to the Journal of Legal Gazeta in July 2007. Lech Kaczyński spoke about it publicly. He bragged: yes, we wanted to give up, we agreed to climate and energy policy. The rest is just a category of negotiation and a majority. But to make things harder for you, now the big debate has begun. Poland participates in the event of a document called "Fit for 55', i.e. "Ready for 55'. What does that mean? That by 2030, we're gonna limit... The aim is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55%. Do you know how the Polish Prime Minister behaved at the European Council? When he could have blocked it himself. You know how? I'll tell you that. He said yes, he said yes. What does that mean? That the consequences of his consent are being transferred to all other activities. We're going to have to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. So if someone tells me today that there's a resolution, the Prime Minister will go to the European summit, that's one big drink. That means you're just plain crooks. You agreed to this as a PiS. As a PiS in 2007, you agreed to climate and energy policy and in 2021. I'm going to the Fit for 55, and I'm going to the If you're looking for... I'm already overlooking whether it's a good thing or not. From my point of view, they are necessary because climate problems really exist. But if you don't like it, please note that the PiS is entirely responsible for it because your governments have agreed to it. And today's cost, today's 90 euros is still not enough. And I'll add one more thing. In 2016, the then government of Beata Szydło announced a great success because it buys family silver. What was that family silver? The bankrupt energy plants today were bought from the French and so on. They got rid of these assets and saw those wretched losers in the Polish government who bought them. Unlucky losers. [[Talking in the O.R.]] This had to be modernised and moved on to other systems, as one of the private companies does today. I don't name it so I don't promote anyone. But it goes from coal to renewable energy sources. Yes, you can. And what did you do at that time in professional energy? What? Senator Klein mentioned that. In Ostrołęka drowned 2 billion or more. What about Jaworzno? What happened out there? Let me remind you again: an energy block built over a year ago for 6 billion doesn't work and doesn't work. Two more years won't work, and for these two years it'll only be for demolition. Why don't you tell us about the disaster that happened in Turów? About how your nominate, sitting in the Seym today, caused the wall to slide down. The wrong raw material is delivered today to boilers in Turów and they also fail. And half a million... 500 million euros... [[$500,000.]] And 500 grand. I'm sorry. Euro daily penalty is what? Whose responsibility is that? Officials who don't know what the ESPOO Convention means. And this is an ordinary convention that requires international agreements. There's gonna be a break, you gotta learn. You have a very special chance at this. How would you like to speak? One with another or three... You have a very special chance to learn. Otherwise, you really look not only at incompetent people, but also at people who wish Poland badly and cause one thing. That Poles thanks to your bad, hopeless, catastrophic energy policy today pay more. I'll tell you another thing, the operators have already made their tariff requests. Since Friday, Mr. Senator. On Friday, we'll know how much the Poles will pay. In the G tariff it will be at least 20%. I'm just saying that so you know. I'm talking about it because I already know it. You don't know yet, and I do. That's the difference between us. I wish Poles all the best, and I wish that this evil, bad, harmful government for Poland should leave as soon as possible, because it will actually be the great responsibility of some next government to fix after you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u83	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to ask, how many more senators would like to speak? [[Voice from the room: Me, Mrs. Marshal.]] Mr. Senator? It's past recess at 12:40. If there is More than one senator, we will continue this item after the interruption. Sign up, ladies and gentlemen. Dismissed until 12:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! There are two messages. A meeting of the Health Committee on the consideration of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Beings and some other Acts will take place 5 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in Room 182. Five minutes. Another announcement. The joint meeting of the Environment Commission and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs on the examination of applications submitted at the Thirty-fourth Senate meeting to the Law amending the Law on Forests and the Nature Conservation Act will be held today at 12.30 in room 217. Twelve o'clock, room 217. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 00 to 12 minutes 40]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u85	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. Excuse me, maybe I could ask you to activate some kind of sound signal that would allow the senators to realize that this is where the session is resumed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] In that case, I'll continue the recess until 12:45. And I would ask you to inform the senators of this fact. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 40 to 12 minutes 45]] Dear Senators, it is always nice to witness a situation in which proverbs, which, as we know, are the wisdom of the nations, are working. And one of our proverbs says, "What is delayed will not escape." At 12.45 p.m., which means right now, we resume the session. I'm reopening the session. We would like to return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the Law on the Coverage Appendix. Let's get back to the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I've been listening... I didn't want to speak, but what Senator Kwiatkowski said It's a shame he's not here. And then what Senator Gawłowski put in it... [[I am.]] Yeah, yeah, I can see that. ...I was obliged to perform because many different threads were touched and mixed. And, of course, PiS wine. The first question about inflation. Yeah, inflation is higher, but that's a lot of factors, basically two. The first factor is the relaxation of monetary policy, which is de facto... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. I would very much ask you not to disturb the senators present during the sitting. The sitting room of the Senate of the Republic of Poland is not as large as the sitting room of the Sejm and mutual respect requires us to refrain from loud conversations. Mr. Senator, I apologize very much on behalf of the House. Proceed.]] Thank you. One reason is, of course, the loosening of monetary policy. And it's happening all over the civilized world. That's what the FED does, that's what the European Central Bank does, that's what the National Bank of Poland does. The result of this relaxation of monetary policy is a temporary increase in inflation. Well, that checks out, inflation in the United States, inflation is in Germany or Italy is the highest in 10 years. And it is also the result of this policy. Why is such a policy conducted by the Polish, German, American government? So that there is no high unemployment, so that we do not have to go through the trauma of the 1990s again, this shock therapy à la Leszek Balcerowicz, so that there is economic growth. And all countries, all highly developed countries, have this policy, and this inflation is kind of a temporary side effect. The second reason for this inflation is already a matter for me to say, the policy proposed by the European Union, a policy broadly understood . and climate policy, and the policy of getting along with Putin, as a result of which the prices of energy raw materials have increased very strongly. Most of these countries ruled mainly by the left, which went as if in the vanguard of this climate policy... She has already been pushed out during the previous term of the European Union, and today, as Senator Gawłowski mentioned, this Fit for 55 project will continue. And that's Mr. Frans Timmermans' job. What's going on? What has this policy led to? Well, it's led us to be chessed by President Putin on the one hand. These countries which have closed all coal plants, such as Spain, Portugal and Italy, today have dramatically high energy prices, reaching up to 200%. Historically, the highest energy prices are in those countries of the European Union which have just implemented this left-wing policy of moving away from coal. Plus replacing the gas, perturbing Putin... And today we have enormous energy poverty in Italy, energy poverty in Spain, energy poverty in Portugal. You can read about it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes, Senator. Read it, Senator, and you'll see what the electricity charge is today. And because of this situation, all countries make different types of cover packages. The Law on Coverage is one of the elements of the Cover Package, which states that we will be making additional payments to households, but we must do so in accordance with European Union legislation. Similar solutions are used in Italy, and they also consider subsidies. But this is one of the elements, yes, one of these elements. Other known to you, because it was publicly announced, said Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, it was a reduction in VAT, a reduction in excise duty, a reduction in retail tax. That's what you have to do, because you actually have to compensate people for the price increase. And that is not the result of any monetary policy mistakes, because if we were to accept it, we would have to say that the monetary policy of the European Central Bank has failed. Even in your favourite senators from the German Civic Platform, they also have record high inflation, probably the highest for 10 or 15 years. This is the result of a certain policy, so you need to see certain processes and effects that these processes cause. Is this bill good? We believe she's good. I'm a little surprised that Senator Kwiatkowski in his amendment proposes some increase in income, because I think that this is precisely the task of the government to secure the implementation of this bill. I am convinced that if there is no funding to implement the cover allowance, the government will shift budget resources to this. Just this morning we had a meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, together with the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, on which we looked at changes in excise duty and the absent Senator Kwiatkowski made some curial amendment by which he wanted to reduce excise duty on oil to other carriers. It was only Minister Patkowski who explained to him that this amendment voted on, together with others, would simply break the provisions of the European Union directive on minimum excise duty. And yet, that's what I'm going to say, the majority of the committee voted for it. So, if I wanted to be a demagogue, I could say that Senator Klein and Senator Kwiatkowski want to bring Poland out of the European Union because they pushed for an amendment, knowing that we could not accept this amendment, and could not modify it, despite the strenuous telephone discussions, because Senator Kwiatkowski did not come to the committee meeting. So I would advise Senator Kwiatkowski, once he has made some amendments to finance, and he is a great lawyer, let him read, let him read the directives of the European Union, then he will know that e.g. Such an amendment is simply not possible because of the minimum excise duty thresholds. I hope that there will be some reflection in the Civic Platform Club and that you will simply not support this psychic amendment, because this is an amendment that will have to be rejected in the Sejm because it is incompatible with European Union law. However, I would not suspect colleagues from the Civic Platform that they are against the European Union and against the law of the European Union, which unfortunately applies in this respect, and financial policy, economic policy, in most cases, is very strongly based on directives that we have to implement in our legal order. Ladies and gentlemen, this law, very important, very much needed, is an element, as the name of the additive itself indicates, a cover for the Polish society, because we have a problem, because we simply have a problem with convincing the European Union that changes in climate policy are needed, and we are also in favour of these changes, but at the same time we cannot agree to the closure of the plant, because someone told us to close it day by day, when in May we gave the power block for PLN 4.5 billion. I no longer wish to mention the names of those Members of the Civic Platform who, after being punished by the European Union, went there and held press conferences. Some of the Platform politicians said, well, pay those penalties, you're good enough for me to say so. And then the effects of this are, among others. that we have such high energy prices. We're gonna do everything... Today, due to this sick climate policy of the European Union, there are the highest historical prices in Italy, Spain, France. I know from ministers that more and more countries of the European Union are beginning to doubt, and it is beginning to wonder what this policy is leading to, because we can see its economic impact. We want to implement this economic policy, climate policy, but we just need time for it. As PiS started ruling in 2015, the price of the CO2 levy was EUR 5, today it amounts to EUR 90. Well, she hesitates, that's what she's like right now. Why was that? Because the European Commission, neither the government nor Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, had anything to say here, made these certificates... [[Timer signal]] ...security. That was two years ago. The speculation started with the investment funds that raised this price to... [[Timer signal]] [[Time's up.]] Today 55% prices per MWh... [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator, time is over.]] I'll just finish my sentence. The 55% they constitute climatic charges. This is sick. Then this results in a change in energy prices for consumers and, unfortunately, also for entrepreneurs, which is even more complicated because entrepreneurs cannot, so to speak, subsidise. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u87	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Joanna Sekula.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, the bill is an example of an ad hoc, random, and a little uncool design. What is important, created once again without consulting local authorities. As we have learned, this was not at all investigated in the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. What does that mean? The fact that local governments could not afford any opportunity to consider this huge project. Now, after passing the law in the Sejm, some conversations are to take place at the express request of local governments. Self-governments have just been deprived of the 500+ programme as part of the commission, remaining with a whole bunch of employees. They've been deprived of the supplement. Now this 2% bonus on the amount of the project is to be added again to local governments, but it turns out that this results in a statistically 8 PLN per potential request, i.e. an administrative decision issued to the customer, which must be delivered to the customer, which costs 11,20. So if once again the government has delegated tasks, and this is not consulted with local governments, it makes it seem that the government treats local governments as its own field agencies. This is a separate authority and we must remember that local governments carry out their statutory tasks. It is very bad when it is not taken into account that local governments have their own legal order, have their own fixed tasks and their timetable may not foresee the possibility of placing an additional one, otherwise very quickly in the necessary implementation of the task. Resignation of an energy supplement that could perfectly satisfy the need for government support for the poorest farms... For reasons unknown to me and incomprehensible to me, it has been replaced by something that can, of course, be done with an extra feta, boasting how much the government draws attention to the needs of the poorest farms, both financially and energetically poor. But let us remember that it would be much better to use this huge amount of PLN 4.7 billion for energy transformation. At the moment, Polish cities... As we remember, it was probably yesterday that Krakow was the most polluted city in the world. What does that mean? The fact that money spent in the form of money for the purchase of the cheapest and most poisonous fuel environment could be used for the next element of the energy transformation that involves the exchange of heat sources into a more ecological one. We are completely recklessly supporting something that we are trying to fight in the second course of government activity. [[...Polish people.]] And those who... no, if we support coal heat sources, we are unfortunately even healthier in these Poles. Therefore, I cannot understand that energy transformation is supported on the one hand, but on the other hand those who are actively involved in this energy transition are forced to wait for the monthly reimbursement of the sums which have been granted to them in the contract. Such a dual way of treating Poles I can't understand either. And what hit me the most today? Once again, it turned out that we are you, that there are those who love Poland more, and there are those who perhaps love other countries. We are all here to serve Poland. Well, in my view, responsibility for the state of the right choice is what serves all citizens equally. But this needs to be done in a smart, responsible way, so that it produces lasting and good results for citizens and the environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Piecha. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've got a simple cover-up bill ahead of us, and there's a political storm about it. This support that citizens expect from us is really important. This money will be used to ensure that our citizens, who are in a difficult economic situation, are able to meet the price increases that await us. There's been a lot of talk here about energy. I would just like to remind you that in August 2015 the 20th power level was introduced. Our energy industry didn't do the job then, and it didn't deliver as much energy as the market needed. This is the first time since 1989. Why? ♪ 'Cause it was a warm summer ♪ It was August. . and not all power plants could operate at full capacity due to cooling. Photovoltaics practically did not have, after 8 years of rule of the Civic Platform it was only 30 MW. Let me remind you that this photovoltaic is now 5.6 GW. This is a powerful, powerful leap in this area. We had wind farms, but these wind farms don't work if there's no wind. That's the problem. That's why I'm supporting the construction of nuclear power plants that will replace coal energy. Well, we're gonna have to get away from that coal. Coal resources in Poland are shrinking. I do not hide that by 2049 we will practically run out of coal because the available resources are 3.2 billion tons. If we divide this by extraction of 50 million tons with a hook, about 54 million tons, we extracted last year Well, we'll see that in 50 years, this coal's gonna end anyway. We extract energy coal, but also coke coal, which is a strategic raw material. This coal should remain in our economy because it ensures the proper development of the steel industry in Europe and in the world. The world has a slightly different approach to this problem. Europe is moving away from coal because these resources are gone. Germany, England, France, Belgium, Spain have exhausted their resources, they have exhausted them to the end. The last German mine worked at a depth of 1 thousand 500 m and there the coal simply ran out. How much they had, how much they burned for their own industry. This civilization leap that took place in the 19th century was based on coal, not other energy resources. Later, to say the least, she joined the oil. At the moment, there are 4.4 billion tons of oil in the world. There are still huge amounts of gas and massive amounts of coal in the world, because 6.9 billion tons. And a country like Australia doesn't want to hear about reducing coal extraction. A country with a high degree of civilization development does not want to get rid of the income from coal production. China produces 3.6 billion tons. This is what was produced in 2020. The world mined this much in 2005. So that's where the progress is huge. In the world there are 6 thousand coal-fired units whose power exceeds 2 thousand GW, and I will remind you that the Polish coal-energy system is 30 GW, so these are powerful units and powerful amounts of energy that are produced from coal, because there 57% energy is produced from coal. We're talking about decarbonization all the time, because it's a normal cycle, and it's gonna happen. The Chinese are already opening up to RES technologies, too, because they know that resources are exhausted. So in 50 years, the Chinese won't be able to mine that much coal, because it's simply not going to be possible in China. And this cycle is spread over time. It was also spread over time in the Federal Republic of Germany. They have been reducing coal production since 1968, because this coal produced in their country is similar now in Poland, with high extraction costs due to the fact that it was increasingly difficult to extract it. And these costs have increased. But in mines that use open-air technologies, the price, the cost of coal mining is a couple of dollars, two dollars or ten dollars. And for these countries For Indonesia, China, India, this is the basic energy raw material. The other side of the coin is that the high-energy industry has moved from Europe to the countries of Southeast Asia. So at the moment, China is producing 880 and 900 million t of steel, and Europe is only 137. And once the power was Europe, not China. And here we see the problem that awaits us to gently go through the transformation process. Because the current isn't from the socket, it's from the power plant, it's from the windmill, it's from the photovoltaics. And all these processes that take place in power grids, they have to be somehow coordinated. You can't exaggerate and only power the industry with voltaic power or power the customers, because photovoltaics only work from 9.00 to 4.00 on sunny days. And then we're at work, and we don't use as much electricity as it's produced. And here's the thing to lean on. You can't just use political passwords because it doesn't lead to anything. The bill is needed. I will support it as much as I can, and I will vote in favour of the bill. We have tabled two amendments to this law, which will make liquidity, when it comes to granting this supplement, much better. I would also like to reassure Senator Secula. The IT systems that are currently in the ZUS or serving local government units are prepared for this. It doesn't take much philosophy to handle it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that this law is very expected by more than 6 million farms in Poland. Well, about that many farms will be able to benefit from this assistance. These income forks, which have been proposed by the applicants, i.e. by the government, translate in this respect into this number of households. Is it large or small? Of course, this can be discussed. I think that this instrument, which means that it will be paid in 2 instalments also has its pros and cons, but in general, in principle, it is a law, which is a very good law. Unfortunately, we are dealing with inflationary phenomena in Poland, and they will affect in particular those citizens who have lower incomes. The problem is mostly about energy, energy carriers, and this was mentioned in the debate, but it is also about heating apartments. Now it's winter season. We don't know what he's gonna be like, but at, God forbid, the heat costs of the winter are gonna be gigantic. This applies to those farms which are individually supplied with heat, which are derived from their own sources, whether from gas, or from some kind of coal fuel, but also from the inhabitants of blocks, tenements, cities. Very many apartments are millions of flats and households in Poland and are supplied with heat from the power plant, and we know that ETS quotas will make a very large increase here. These heat and power plants are often dependent on local governments, but the local authorities are not able to react here, so they will necessarily shift the costs of increasing energy prices to final consumers, in this case to residents. In my deep opinion, this inflation will cause the cost of living the property you live in to rise dramatically. They will increase more than the official level of inflation, which is shown by the CSO. And that's going to be extremely severe, because you can't get away with these charges. You can give up certain consumer goods, you can tighten your belts, you can make some savings in this area, but energy, gas, electricity or heating are costs that are fixed costs. In the case of smaller-income farms, these costs will simply make life very difficult for people. As I understand it, this supplement is supposed to sort of absorb these costs. We also need to look together at the solutions that have recently been introduced or are being introduced. After all, we have just examined the Act on the periodic abolition of excise duties and VAT on energy carriers. A long discussion was triggered by the issue of the Polish Deal, but as a rule, when it comes to people with the smallest... I am no longer entering this whole discussion that we have had the opportunity to hold here in the High House. Nevertheless, these low-income farms will benefit from these solutions. However, in my opinion, unfortunately, these economists and experts are right, who claim that inflation will exceed these potential gains from the Polish Government. But this question can be reversed: okay, High Izbo, what if there was no Polish Deal if we didn't change anything about it? Then the situation of these households would be even worse, and this too needs to be remembered. High Izbo, I think the problem of inflation, the problem of cost, unfortunately, is not a problem that will be solved in 2, 3 or 4 months. Unfortunately, this is probably a trend, as we can see from what we hear from experts and economists, more long-term. Colleagues, previous speakers pointed out that, after all, the problem of raising energy prices is not only a Polish specificity. Of course, it may be particularly severe in Poland, but it also applies to Western European countries. And I think that some radicalism in relation to the climate objectives that are manifested in these ambitious goals of the Freedom Union... [[Thank you very much.]] Sorry, European Union, I'm improving. I believe that these goals of life will be verified. That's my guess. And this will happen not only in Poland, although in Poland there is a debate in the government, as we know, on this subject, but also in other European countries, because in fact the radical introduction of all these restrictions will result in such a large increase in energy costs that the European economy will lose some competitiveness, the ability to compete on global markets, and in turn for citizens this will mean a very clear reduction in their standard of living. From this point of view, the situation is somewhat, I would say, looped, because, on the one hand, the implementation of certain policies and the imposition of certain standards result in an increase in energy prices and, on the other hand, the income of citizens does not keep up with this increase in energy costs. This is also due to inflation, which, as I mentioned, is a wider phenomenon. Of course, in Poland we can discuss how much it could have affected its weakness and how much it could not. But I think everyone in this room will agree with this belief that this is a broader problem, not only concerning Poland, and inflation also has its sources in the increase in raw material prices on global markets, and this is one of the factors that undoubtedly accelerates these processes. To conclude, I'm in favour of this bill. I hope that in some way it will protect, although I am also aware that probably not fully, against the effects of rising energy prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u93	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Actually, I have some explanations. I am glad that no one questioned who was responsible and who contributed, first, to the accession to the Climate and Energy Pact which the government had done and when, and secondly, to the agreement of Prime Minister Morawiecki to join the A few explanations and data first. Today, average inflation in Europe is 4.1% and inflation in Poland is 7.7%. Poland next to Hungary is one of those countries where inflation is highest. And if I'm talking about the average, you know there are countries where it's significantly lower, and it's worth remembering that. So there's absolutely nothing to brag about, High Government. I'm saying this so that the senate minority supporting the government knows it because it's really in this dimension. It's a failure. That's one thing. Second, photovoltaics in 2015 Photovoltaics today. Anyone with a little knowledge knows that the efficiency of photovoltaic equipment in 2015 was 6% and investing in them was simply not profitable. Today it exceeds 20%. And if you hadn't adopted a law that slaughters photovoltaics, I'm talking about the majority supporting the government. She's the one who'd still be perfect. This bill is the end of the development of photovoltaics. Anyone who has any knowledge of this case will confirm it. This is her slaughter, Mr. Senator. You know that, I know that, why discuss it? It's an absolute detachment of photovoltaics, especially the prosumer one, from the possibility of development. That's two. Thirdly, coal is indeed mined, but this is the raw material whose extraction ends and is completely inefficient in Poland, because coal mining brings huge losses. It would be cheaper to just close them overnight than pretend we're mining. 4 billion, that's about it. This year they will suffer losses in coal mining. It's about us using numbers. We're saved by coal from Russia, billions... Historical records are hitting... you're hitting imports of coal from Russia. Anyway, I don't want to talk about it anymore either. About the risks and the 20th power supply... what happened on December 6th this year? What was December 6th? The Swedes had to specially run their power plants, other neighbouring countries to supply us with electricity. It wasn't once, it was December 6th, now, a few days ago. [[Talking in the O.R.]] A few days ago. So if you want to say something here, you should refer to here and now, because here and now is a disaster. It's a disaster here and now, not once. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And that's the last thing on the bill itself. You put 4.7 billion in the bill for help. Anyone who knows the budget for this year knows that on the revenue side at the adoption stage of the budget in the section entitled: The revenue from greenhouse gas emission allowances, I will remind you because some people do not want to remember: they go completely to the Polish state budget The revenue was designed at the level of PLN 10 billion. What's it gonna be this year? [[Twenty-three.]] 23 billion. And what help do we have in this bill? 4.7. So, Senator, if you really want to help, then... Let me put it this way: this 14 billion is the minimum that should be transferred to help and support, if not in excise, then in VAT, if not in this way, through an allowance. We even once in a bill like this that I've been pushing here... The PiS state actually voted against, but she went to the Sejm. It is a law that concerned support in the area of energy poverty. We proposed the so-called. the ecological allowance for the housing allowance. All you have to do is rewrite it. It means you don't have to... hello, government, you don't have to come up with anything, all you have to do is rewrite this bill to... and 14 billion... You could really help Poles in the section entitled: Support. But you don't, you don't. What's more, I'm going to read you the bill you're so eager to support. Here's what I'm gonna say: any help is worth... And I'll probably vote in favour at the end, too. But in the article. In paragraph 16, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: 3 is a record that says that... [[Timer signal]] ...if the use of funds in the first six months of the financial year is... [[Mr. Senator...]] I said seven minutes before. I've got three, so... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm just gonna complete these three by reading. It's about everybody knowing what kind of bullshit you're gonna be supporting. When the use of appropriations in the first six months of the financial year amounts to more than 65% the measures in question, etc. And then there's this link that if this 65% will be used... The following is the provision: if the level of the percentage referred to in paragraph. 3 will be reduced, the minister responsible for public finances will announce, by means of a notice, the amount of the cover allowance in the official journal. What does that mean? This means that even this 4.7 billion does not have to go to the Poles. 14 billion is the minimum that should be written down. And there are various ways and mechanisms to help Poles. You don't want to do this. This is another drink. This is another proof of your drinking. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, who, I understand, has five minutes. [[No, 10 minutes.]] Oh, ten. [[This is my first performance.]] [[Voice from the room: 1st.]] [[I'm only five minutes away.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I am ashamed because it turned out that this is the result of the project that we are working on, that there are worse Poles. Worse Poles are the ones who sunbathe houses with fuel oil. It's gotta get to them all. Yes, the Polish government forgot about you. Yeah, the Polish government thinks you don't deserve any subsidies. Yeah, the government proposal remembered everyone, just not you. You're left without help, as if the price of fuel oil didn't rise, and it rose radically. Yes, we will claim tens of thousands of Polish families who sunbathe their houses with fuel oil. Among them are those who cannot use the gas because there is no gas network. Among them are the elderly, the sick, who use fuel oil, because it is a source of almost automatic power, not requiring much commitment, effort. With a well-set furnace, it is also a power source that does not compare... it really also provides higher combustion standards for coal. And we're gonna fight for these people. Yeah, we're gonna fight for them. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that when I look at how this project has been worked, I am ashamed of the representative of the Polish government who promised on Monday at the meeting of the committee that dealt with this project that he will present information on the rates on fuel oil that are possible, because the government did not actually prepare this in the context of the possibility of reductions, he did not do so. However, with regard to the 5 proposals we have put forward, the government representative says but without detailed information That one of these rates may be at a rate which exceeds the lower permitted limit in the European Union. We do not know for sure because the government did not provide detailed calculations, but we do know that thousands of Polish families want to leave without help. Those who sunbathe houses with fuel oil are for you, so to speak, children of a worse God. I'm ashamed of it. What's going on here in the Senate? Instead of coming and apologizing in this matter, say: 'We feel foolish that this situation has happened, one of the senators I'm not gonna mention his name specifically. He says it's evidence... for what? Wanting to leave the European Union. Shakespeare said, "The empty vessels make the most noise." [[Applause]] A Mark Twain: It is better not to speak at all and to seem stupid than to speak and dispel any doubts. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am really ashamed that this discussion in which I spoke earlier... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...not at this point, just on the principle of caring... [[This.]] ...about the interests of residents, citizens and citizens... [[Mr. Senator...]] I've got two more minutes. ...It is moving to make sure that someone based on the fact that the government has made a mess of the matter, compromised himself, forgot those who heat the houses with fuel oil, draw such conclusions that those who remember these people want to bring Poland out of the European Union, that this is proof of it. Ladies and gentlemen, this senator who cares so much about Poland's membership in the European Union, I will dedicate something. If we care so much about Polish membership of the European Union, talk to your colleagues. Marek Suski at RMF FM: conflict with the European Union is like extraterritorial demands on the corridor made by Hitler in 1939. Marek Suski in Radom: Poland fought with one invader during World War II, fought with the Soviet invader, and we will fight with the Brussels invader. Brussels sends us governors who... want us to be on our knees so that we can be German land. Marshal Terlecki, otherwise in the economic forum in Karpacz, i.e. very close to the place where one of the senators should respond in a special way to unwise statements, he said about relations with the European Union: "If it goes the way it is supposed to go, we must look for drastic solutions. The British showed that the dictatorship of Brussels bureaucracy... etc., turned and left. We... cannot be driven into something that limits our freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, let us apologize to those whom the government has forgotten and who are heating their houses with fuel oil. Let's make some adjustments. If I have to... If one of the several tariffs needs to be calibrated better, let the Ministry of Finance show detailed data in this respect. [[Timer signal]] Let us show that above political divisions we remember those who today have trouble heating their homes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. One of the things that is certainly not subject to political fluctuations is the time that you now receive, in the number or in the amount of 5 minutes, Senator Krzysztof Mróz. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'll get back to you... I'll say that under my name. Because such statements have died, we must answer. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski, as you cared about these people as much as you did, it was simply as a lawyer, as a specialist, that you should have made a good amendment. And not that you made a bad amendment against European Union law, and then Senator Kleina resented the Minister that Kwiatkowski had made a bad amendment. If there's an amendment, it's a responsibility. As a senator, you tabled the amendment, signed it and only the Minister told you that this is an amendment which sets the excise duty at 34 PLN and the minimum excise duty is 69 PLN. And I in this context I said that if I wanted to be malicious, I would say: does Senator Kwiatkowski want Poland out of the European Union and do the Senators of the Platform want it, who, knowing this, supported this amendment? And if Senator Kwiatkowski were so good, then... You had to get up, come to the committee meeting at 8:45 and modify this amendment. Because just because you weren't at the committee meeting, Senator Klein couldn't modify this amendment. Perhaps this amendment would have passed. [[Voice from the hall: And she passed, passed.]] And there has been an amendment that will have to be rejected in the Seym if it passes in the Senate because it is contrary to European Union law. Do you want to vote in favour of amendments contrary to European Union law? So vote. Because that's the situation. So you had to come in the morning, Mr. Senator, lean on it and modify the amendment, and not resent the government for having written the wrong amendment. That's one thing. Secondly, Senator Kwiatkowski either knew or did not know why the fuel oil was not subject to the said excise duty, a reduction in this excise duty. The Minister was very clear about this at the committee meeting. If the senator had come to the committee meeting, you might have found out. But it's not secret because it's confidential, because this issue has already been explained, also in the Sejm. And here, the Senators of the Platforms repeat these different kinds of thesis that have been overthrown in the Sejm. So much for Senator Kwiatkowski. I allowed myself to ad personam, but to say the least, I was treated this way too. And that's the first line. Second line. It is about Senator Sekuła, who, in a short speech, denied herself three times, because, of course, she regretted how bad it was that the bill was not consulted and, on the other hand, regretted that the government had now withdrawn the withdrawal of funds from the 500+ programme by local governments and local governments to lose... Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. The fact that there is a new task gives the opportunity to compensate for the situation for local governments. Of course, it will always be like fighting, competing, or the rates offered for some public task by local governments are right or wrong. I also remember when we adopted the 500+ program and there was money for the operation of this system by the municipalities. There were doubts, too, and there were some, well, different opinions, differences between government and government. But since the local government today regrets that the 500+ programme is no longer going through it, it means that these rates were favourable enough. I'll return to Senator Sekuła, who said... Well, I'm sorry, I won't even judge it anymore. She said put this 4.7 billion into energy transformation. Anyone who even knows a little... Senator Piech is a truly outstanding energy expert, but in your environment as well... You're aware of that, aren't you? Senator Sekule can give you a hint. That energy transformation is not a cost of 4.7 billion PLN, but between 250 and 500 billion PLN. We're talking about the kind of money we're going to have to spend on energy transformation, moving away from coal. The game is so that we can do it so we can spread it out in time. There was a raised question that we had to import energy recently. Yeah, we had to, because that was the situation in the system, but a few weeks ago, we were selling power to Germany when, so to speak, it wasn't blowing and it wasn't glowing. This is how the common energy market and these connections work. There's nothing to be surprised about. I hope you vote in favour. I listened to Senator Sekuła and wondered if she would support the bill or not. She didn't say. If you don't want to, don't. It will be a clear signal that you do not want to support 4 million Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u99	Mr. Senator, you've exceeded your time regardless of the fact that you've spent about five minutes with Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, who has been mentioned by name. And it's so many times that you can't count it. He is willing to prohibit the ad vocem vote on this matter. [[Voice from the room: Ad vocem.]] Ad vocem, yes, only in this mode. But I think the senator has no doubt that the senator has been mentioned many times. Mr. Senator, three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, ad vocem, I must say that Senator Frost was concerned that I was not at the committee meeting at 8.45. I'll take this opportunity. I'd like to inform you all that I got up earlier than Senator Frost. I've been at the local government committee since 8:15. As you know, committee meetings unfortunately overlap sometimes. Unfortunately, this does not change the embarrassment of the government, which did not present detailed calculations at the committee meeting on Monday, so that we could not appeal to this information... [[Voice from the gym: But today he reported something...]] Yes, very good. Today, at a time when the amendments had already been tabled, this government actually acted quickly. If there was a war, leaving the first squad would be at the same time as an act of surrender. Mr. Senator, let's lower the veil of silence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't supposed to speak, but my colleagues are provoking me, because sometimes it's important to refer to the facts here. I'm not gonna name names so I don't provoke again, but one of the senators said that we blew up the photovoltaics. I would like to remind you that I was the one making the application and I asked the High House to give a chance to extend the functioning of photovoltaics by six months to extend the deadline, also for local governments, for individuals that you yourself supported... And you guys threw away the whole bill. You didn't do what we asked, and we asked you to amend this bill. I'm afraid so. Please don't say that we threw it out, that we gave up this opportunity when we wanted to correct it, and you didn't correct it. The allegations that the government is making money, that it should give more money... Yeah, well, that money's coming from something. If there are more than 4 billion, it will most likely be money from ETS certificates. Besides, it's an obligation that at least about 50% measures should go to the environment. After all, this money goes to a national fund, to many other projects. It's not like this money goes nowhere in the budget. It's about 50%. ...I think he's even... The senator himself, one or the other, said that a report had to be submitted informing the European Union's Commission about the spending of special resources, because in the case of about 50% it should be demonstrated that the measures go towards environmental objectives and climate objectives. As far as inflation is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, you are overheating... you want this to be a self-fulfilling prophecy, as your statements show. If we're gonna call it inflation, say there's gonna be cards, if we scare people, we're gonna drive it ourselves, we're gonna make the announcement ourselves... It might work, but I hope it doesn't work out and that this process will be gradually inhibited. Let us work together in this direction, not in the opposite direction. Is inflation just because we like it? Farmers really feel very bad when grain is exported from Poland, when prices are galloping, and soon it may be necessary to intervene, because they will get so much grain out of Poland. Because they're sold at 1,400 zlotys, farmers sold them at 700 zlotys, and now they're being exported at these prices. [[Voice from the room: Wheat...]] And who's making money out of it? Does a farmer make money? And the prices are rising in stores. And who raises those prices? Poultryers cry that the costs simply do not overlap, because fuel prices, energy prices, feed prices, which are, do not overlap. And who's raising inflation prices? Shops, nets. The networks are raising prices. Make a calculation, check it out. The farmer doesn't have much of it, and all the intermediaries, and the most commercial networks, are driving this inflation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u104	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Can I do this from the spot? [[Voice from the room: Better get out of here.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking here about very serious issues, about the very difficult situation of us, Poles in times of crisis, several crises. And I would like to appeal to my colleagues in Law and Justice not to press charges and scare the European Union because these nonsenses that politicians and ministers of Law and Justice are talking about bans and orders are calling for revenge to heaven. I've never heard such nonsense about the Union. These words cross every line every day, day by day, it's bigger bullshit. Imagine that in this Chamber we have heard that the government is negotiating with the Commission the regulation that this government is issuing. We are, ladies and gentlemen, the only country in the European Union that negotiates a regulation with the European Union. I am not surprised that this Union is so hard on you, since you are negotiating regulations with it. This is just ridiculous. And I would like for the new year the Law and Justice politicians and ministers to learn about the European Union and learn about the rules of membership. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Senator Joanna Hibner... I'm sorry, Jolanta Hibner.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't supposed to speak again today, but I can't turn to Mr. Mr. Frost to correct his statement. I happen to be in Portugal every year, and I have... [[Voice from the hall: Oh, right there?]] [[Senator Froze's voice?]] Yes, to see Senator Mr. Frost. I have a family property there and... [[Voice from the room: Oh, please!]] Yeah, yeah, I have a rich sister. There are lower food and energy prices, maintenance costs are much lower than in Poland, and higher wages are. I'm saying this so that you all know this because I understand you're not using proven sources. Just so you know, in Portugal, it's 92% vaccination. and dies less than 10% a day Those who die here. But yet, because we are on the energy issue, I would like to say that Portugal has set a record: only renewable energy has been used there continuously for four days. May I? Yes, you can. If you'd like to know about democracy, I'm serving up-to-date information from Switzerland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was supposed to be about the bill, and we are conducting, as I think, a very important discussion not only about the law itself, but above all about the cost and what is today one of the important problems for Poles, namely rising prices. I need to repeat a few things I already said in this room yesterday, because I guess I wasn't very clear. Therefore, I would like to repeat these few things. You can ignore them, you can let them in with one ear, you can let them out with the other, but these are not my views, these are opinions based on knowledge, knowledge, which is generally respected not only in Poland, but also in the whole world. Before I do, I'd like to make a brief reference to a few speeches. Senator Orzechowska compared the proceedings to the PZPR. I would like to say that in some parts the difference is really fundamental, but generally the main idea of the Polish United Workers' Party was idolatry. It was one of the elements, there was nothing to criticize. If someone criticized something, said something to the chief or said something wrong with the party's thesis, he would be considered a reviewer. Therefore, in this respect there is one party in the Polish legal system that responds to various kinds of things. I'm not going to name this party. About what Senator Frost said, I'll say yes. Mr. Senator, please accept, if you'll excuse me, one of the important elements. That's what Senator Gawłowski emphasized. In order to have a substantive discussion, it is necessary to rely primarily on knowledge, facts and experience. When you say that all that is related to expensive, energy prices etc., etc., you have given various examples, she is guilty of That's what I wrote down in a nutshell. The European Union, Putin, Balcerowicz, Timmermans and leftist politics... I'm just gonna leave it without comment, 'cause there's as much knowledge as there is. And what you're saying about the fact that the main element or the only element is rising energy prices and that in other countries it's the same... That's what the senator just said. I just want to say that in those countries you mentioned, in Spain, Portugal, it's from 2 to 5%. I will also refer to what Senator Chróścikowski said. Mr. Senator, they used to say that the main fault was that there was no meat on the market, you know who was. Not farmers, not power. Who was? Speculators, shops. They were the guilty ones. Please do not go this way, that the responsibility for rising prices of all products in Poland, including food products, as you said, is borne by shops that they are responsible for inflation. I'm gonna say it again... [[Voice from the room: Networking, networks.]] Nets, stores, whatever you call it, big, small, whatever you want, I'll name them here. I want to tell you what Polish economic scientists say. There are 3 main sources of inflation in the world, not to say that only in Poland. There are some external factors that we have the slightest influence on. Of course, they are largely objective, but please note the line of thought. Putin That's what the senator said. Putin here bad, raises gas prices. And where do we mainly import coal from? Putin's coal's good and the gas's bad. This is one element, an external element. Here you can understand that inflation is 3 and 4%, let's say 5%. This is the average in the Union, this is something that is acceptable in the socio-economic situation that we have today. Only that the next two sources are completely dependent on the government of the Republic of Poland, not on shopkeepers, not on Timmermans, not on Putin and others. These are the effects of the government of the Republic. This is politics... I'm sorry, not so much the government as the bank. This is monetary policy. I told you here, what it looked like and what the monetary policy of the National Bank of Poland still looks like. A month ago, as the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, we were at a meeting at the National Bank of Poland. I don't know if you were, Senator. And it was okay, no inflation, no money in the beard as much as we want, no gold, we can lend money to others, we have it for others. A bright future. And what happened in a month that we're about to face 10% inflation. ? The third element is the financial policy of the State, mainly budgetary policy. Ladies and gentlemen, a few of these things are facts. In 2018, 14 countries in Europe have a budget surplus, in short, saving money for difficult times. You know, seven fat years, seven skinny years. It does not take to be Einstein to understand that after a period of growth comes a period of decline, a crisis, also in the sphere of economic production. Those 14 countries are putting something away. And did we, for once in the last six years, have a situation that we've put off at least a penny? Oh, no. And today the situation is that, apart from Malta, we have the largest budget out of control in Europe, with the maximum amount of spending, including wasting the things that Senator Klein said. And we are just talking about it as people concerned about the state of the Republic and its inhabitants. These are things that are facts and I would ask you to take them into account when examining the causes of inflation. Of course, one of the elements that Polish economists are talking about is cover policy. And this draft law is part of it. He's late, he obviously contains too little money for this cover policy, and there are other things that we want to correct here. Senator Kochan will be the person who either has tabled or has tabled these amendments, we would ask for their support. But we, together with you, as she was here in the suggestion, believe that a sensible cover policy is needed in Poland. But that doesn't change the fact that you're wasting money, that you spend it without clear goals, that you're pushing this money into different kinds of institutions... Do you know how many new institutions you've set up in your six-year term? Yeah, almost 30. And how many times have you raised taxes and taxes in Poland? 40 times. Therefore, we need to consider what this target policy is. And that is why I would like to say that we will, of course, support this bill, because the actions related to cover policy, Mr. Senator, are needed. And even if it is late and insufficient in terms of the amount of money spent, even if it contains some of the things to which we want to make amendments, this is part of the discussion. That's why I'd like to thank you very much for your speech, sir, because the senator showed you. That's my feeling. That it is possible to discuss in substance what is part of the state's energy policy. We may differ as to whether we are moving too fast from coal or too hard, but the elements that the senator was talking about can be discussed. But those other things were. I'm sorry to say this. More like on TVP PiS, not related to knowledge. That's why it's my request, Mr. Senator. I'm addressing Senator Wojciech Piecha. It could be done at the club to provide the Senators with information on energy policy in Europe, prospects, how, what... The point is that we have a plane on which to argue, but we would argue about what is based on facts and knowledge. And finally, as I said in yesterday's speech... Polish economists say that inflation is a cancer that drives the finances of Polish families. Today I add to what Senator Zdrojewski said, that it is no longer merely an excavation, because it is in economic terms the pockets of Polish taxpayers. Do you know how much more taxes will be paid by Polish taxpayers this year as a result of inflation? It was estimated that 10 billion was said at the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance But that was when inflation was at 4.5%. When it is twice as high, it is easy to calculate that it will be about PLN 18.20 billion. That's what Poles will pay under taxes that will enter the state budget! Of course, the Minister of Finance can say that this is good, but for Poles this is very bad news. The inflation is something that not only digs pockets. It is an important element that has a negative impact on the economy, but also an important element from a psychological point of view. If the interest rate on the bank's deposits is as high as it is and inflation is 10% It's easy to realize that it's... [[Timer signal]] ...a very bad signal also in the social and economic sense. That's why I'd like to thank you very much... I do not know if I will be able to speak at this meeting again, and I would therefore like to wish you all the best wishes for a new year to be better than the year that has passed and, above all, to wish you all health. Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u109	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Actually, it's either a correction or an explanation, because maybe a fellow senator, my previous speaker, misunderstood my statement. I have made it clear that inflation costs, especially the prices of our agricultural products, the detail, what we are talking about as consumers when we buy food... The most inflationary part is the cost of energy, gas, one at a time. Since fertilizer prices have increased by 300%, I'm sorry. We are even asking the European Commission to make decisions on this matter throughout the European Union, because these fertiliser prices do not match the possibility of selling our products and the most expensive is the production of cereals. We're talking about the fact that every single one of us is counting the costs, so food prices are rising. It's got to be a cost. And the baker's gonna do the math, and the seller's gonna do the math, everybody's gonna do the math. Only that I always say, worst of all, that as those who give raw materials or semi-finished products, we are the first, and we are counted as the last and we are the least paid, because we are said not to be profitable. And networks sometimes make more than just profits. There is, for example. The situation is that they say that the sausage that is to be sold must cost as much as 8 zlotys, 10 zlotys. For a kilo of live meat, you have to pay 8 zlotys. Excuse me, is this the situation where you eat sausage? It's just that the industry is pushing what it needs to push. In order for it to be at this price, it gives you bad quality, and if you have to go the other way, it lifts prices. And when farmers have to pay more, they don't regulate prices, they have profits. Please note that trade, imports, exports have a huge impact, sometimes they are very positive and sometimes very negative. At present apple producers say that there is simply tragedy, no one wants to buy apples for export, because there are sanctions against Belarus and other countries. As farmers, we suffer because no one wants to buy our products at a price. And that's the question of how to compensate these farmers now, and I'd ask you at the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm still here.]] In what mode, Senator? [[Corrections.]] Corrections. So you were mistakenly quoted. Yes? [[...by Senator Czarnobaj. My name came up.]] And here you go, now that your name and you're feeling mistreated. Three minutes. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm definitely not gonna use those three minutes.]] Your right.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u112	Let me quote: the prices of natural gas are hitting on stock exchanges in the European Union by another record Senator Czarnobaj, as you have shortened my speech... [[Voice from the room: But...]] Yes. Putin and the European Union are not responsible for inflation, as you said, but Putin and the European Union's climate policy are responsible for the prices of energy that are rising, as I quoted from the industry portal, which can be verified. And the result of the rise in energy raw material prices is obvious. You're an economist too. The increase in inflation. Senator Hibner, who referred to her sister or her family in Portugal... [[I'm sorry, you're not Mrs. Hibner's sister, Mr. Senator, it was about correcting you.]] But that's what I'm gonna say right now... About what I said. Please contact your family in Portugal, see the prices of gas and electricity in September, October and November and how high they are now. The senator said they're low, and they're very, very high. Call me, make a call to the family, I'm sure they'll tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u113	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, in the second part, you have definitely abused the rights to polemics. If the senator said the prices were one or another, it was her political assessment. If she said you were one or the other, you could react to it. That's the end of it. There are no more requests for discussion. For the record, Senator Swed made his speech in the minutes. The legislative proposals were submitted by Senator Kochan, Senator Wojciech Piech and Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. The discussion is closed. [[The voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, or...]] As legislative proposals have been tabled, I have a question for the representative of the government whether he wishes to respond to the proposals put forward. No. Yes? Excuse me... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Piotr Dziadzio: But we do not know these conclusions.]] I see. They were presented during the debate. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Senator Lover... Oh, no. Thank you very much. We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Social Assistance Act. The text of the act is contained in print No 563, and the report of the committee In print No 563 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. This is the bill that the government has submitted to Parliament. I must say that all Members unanimously adopted it at its meeting on 17 November. Members of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee also referred to this project or already the law. Yeah, these are good legal solutions, long-awaited. They consist, in short, of removing unfairly understood rules and unfairly charging the costs of parents' stay in the DPS of children to whom these parents never were parents. In Polish law it is that a person who requires care and is not independent can rely either to care for your family, or to care for the state in the welfare home. The cost of staying at the social services house is covered in part That's all you can get. From the pension of a person who is staying in a social security home. The remaining part of the cost of the stay is to cover the family. If this family is not there, the responsibility is to take over the commune where the person in the social services home was supposed to, so to speak, the last address of residence. It would seem that this is very... That's a very reasonable solution. First, parents have an obligation to be adults or until they graduate from school to raise their children. But this means that a child has a duty to his parents to help them when they do not demand and are lonely. It is about these 2 reasons: the parent behaved as he should, towards his child, and the child also behaves always in order towards his parent. However, the situation is different when the parent did not behave like a parent. He left his family, he didn't pay his alimony, he used violence in his family. Today is the case that if it is proved that this was the case, then the court and social security officials of the municipality have grounds for exempting the child from the obligation to pay for the parent. But this was often the case, especially in years before 2010, when we introduced a law on anti-violence in the family into the Polish legal order... Since then, we have continued to complement it, introduce more efficient, better legal solutions. But it used to be like this. You know that, don't you? That they were washed in their own house, they were not carried out outside. So the drama of the injured child and the parent took place in four walls. There have also been cases where there were no divorces, only one of the parents I regret to say that most often it was a man who took his suitcases and moved away, leaving his children and his second parent, the mother, all alone. No one's ever been involved in a divorce. And in this legal state, a child who has reached the age of 18 today has a duty to pay for such a parent's stay. The one who left them, who cared about them, who didn't pay the child support he was applying... But there's no concrete evidence that he behaved that way. And today, this baby has to pay. It's not fair. Government proposals are moving towards remedying this clear injustice and extending the catalogue of persons to include those who may be exempted from the maintenance obligation of an adult, their parent. The Commission unanimously supported the law. And that is my recommendation to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's duration to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u116	Senator, I have the following question. Art. 64 lists, following an amendment, situations where a person sent to a social assistance home may be partially or completely exempt from payment. So far, the rule of law still in force is that... Point 6 states that there is an exemption from such a charge if the person liable to pay the fee presents the judgment of the court dismissing the action... [[Yes.]] ...about alimony. This amendment adds paragraph 7, which aims to exempt from the social assistance home payment where the person who is obliged to pay a fee shows... And now my question: what does it mean? Is this about family intelligence? Do you not think that point 6 contained this content, the possibilities we find in the added point 7? As far as the judgment is concerned, the case is clear. But here we have a situation like this... which is more important, whether it's a sentence, or what the person shows? Should this person seek a judgment, or should he simply try to prove without judgment that...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u117	Mr. Senator, I would like to say that the first step in applying for an exemption from the maintenance obligation to your parent staying in a social security home is at the stage of the municipality where the parent was recently resident. Most of the time it happens that the lack of care for such a person... She's insane. I'm thinking about this sick parent. And he goes to a social worker's home. The commune is looking for his loved ones, who, because this man has abandoned them, today do not even know that he is in such a situation. The first contact with him of a person who, as it were, refers to a maintenance is through the municipality, a municipality official who today, without this decision of the court, can take no other decision than to impose an obligation on an abandoned child to support his parent. But according to these records, he will already have the basis for an environmental interview, the questioning of former neighbours, former colleagues, co-owners of the commune, may ask in an environmental interview about how he behaved towards his children also staying at the parent's social assistance home today. The rule has opened up to other situations that not only the judgment of the court and not only the testimony of witnesses can be the basis for not aliminating this previously neglected child, but today an adult. It is therefore a provision that goes in the right direction, but not a provision that would say: everyone can give up the obligation to support their parents with impunity. No, it's preceded by an environmental interview, a knowledge of things. Not everything in the law can be written enumeratively, especially when it comes to contacting parents. You know, in these older families, divorces weren't the same as today that parents were... They often split up without divorce, no one filed for divorce and no one applied for alimony. Dad's out. Oh, that's okay. My mom was doing okay. And today the children of this relationship are burdened with a maintenance of their father, who has not seen them for 20 and 30 years. So it can be verified, and it does not necessarily require a judgment of the court. You can do this before, and that's fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u118	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator Rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. Minister Michał Wójcik was authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? This question is clearly rhetorical on my part, because the Minister is heading for the speaker, which means that he will present the position of the government. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u119	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I waited five hours for my speech, but it was not a lost time because it was an intriguing discussion at other points. But I'm gonna start out a little out of the ordinary. For 6 years here I come to you, most often as Deputy Minister of Justice I had the opportunity to be, but I will start by thanking you. I would like to thank the committee, and Mrs Kochan, and all the members of the committee, both from the governing camp and from the opposition. This is unusual, unusual, so to speak, that, on the occasion of some projects or laws, we can have the same opinion, we can react in the same way to the injustice that our fellow countrymen encounter. And an example of these rules is a manifest error in the legal order, there is a gap here. They say there are no legal gaps, but, as you can see, in this case it was so that you had to have legal intervention exactly in the Social Assistance Act to face justice. Madam Kochan has already talked about where this injustice is happening. Well, if there's no connection between a child and a parent, mom or father. There is no such bond sometimes, Ladies and gentlemen, several dozen years, and after several decades the bailiff enters into the account of the person who, according to the provisions of the Act, is obliged to pay for his or her father's or mother's social assistance home, it is not fair. His parents weren't interested in him, maybe he was being bullied, but there's no verdict. That's the situation. That's life. If there was no connection, there was no desire to take care of the child's upbringing, to take care of its development in the area of culture, sport, education, then how can you, ladies and gentlemen, consider it fair that the bailiff enters this child's account and simply takes away his money? There's no discussion here. Such situations were described as human tragedies. By a lot of media. I would also like to thank Senator Lydia Staroń, who leaned on this problem, and all the senators who, after all, have come up with such an initiative from you, too. It doesn't matter if it was reported in the Seym or the Senate. What is important is that we are going in the right direction, that everything indicates that these new rules will be adopted. It is true that in the Seym, when this was investigated, there was an unusual situation and everyone voted in favour of this solution. The problem was intended to be resolved in such a way as to be accepted into the legal order of the so-called. social clause, general clause. Of course, sometimes it is applied in the legal order, but this is a clause that is very vague. For a social worker himself, it would be too wide for him to make the right decisions without any doubt. whether or not a person is to pay or not. How is a social worker supposed to assess that? He's doing a lot of hard work anyway. Suppose, at some point, he comes into contact with a problem and sees that the legislation does not indicate this particular case that he is dealing with, but there is a general clause, a clause on the principles of social relations. Well, she can be understood differently. This was addressed by the spokespersons of the rights of the child and the spokespersons of civil rights who wanted to regulate this issue. You have spoken, ladies and gentlemen, the social workers themselves. The Polish Federation of Social Workers and Social Assistance in 2017 signed a letter addressed to the Ministry of Family Affairs and the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child. They themselves found that in practice they were faced with such situations that they had to make unfair decisions. Well, they saw it was unfair, that it was unfair, and they asked me to settle this case. And we're regulating it. How do we regulate? In 2 areas. In the Social Assistance Act, I may start with this easier area, the provision of the article. 64a, which we're changing. This provision of the article. 64a states that if someone has a judicial conviction for committing a deliberate crime involving violence against certain persons, it is specifically a person who is obliged to pay a fee, a minor or a parent, then the court... If a person makes such a judgment, it is mandatory to exempt him from the charges, he is, as it were, exculpating himself. The court requires such a person to be exempt from payment, but it is only necessary to present this document. But they're here, in this recipe, two problems. First of all, what does a deliberate crime of violence mean? And drinking a minor is a deliberate crime of violence? No. Isn't maintenance? It's not. Leaving the minor is? It's not. This is where we had to propose a change. Ladies and gentlemen, not a deliberate crime of violence, only a crime prosecuted by a public prosecution. And that's how we're going to cover all the crimes that we're talking about. I just told you. That's one thing. Secondly, if the offence has been committed to the detriment of the person liable to pay the fee, the minor and the parent, it is a question of why this does not apply to the second person, why this does not apply to the child. It's logical, isn't it? It is also about the ageless, unhelpful because of the age, mental or physical condition of siblings. Then it'll be fair, consistent, systemic. And that's how it's supposed to be. Of course, there is another matter that should be settled and not regulated. It's about erase the conviction. We propose an addition: unless the conviction has disappeared. Well, those are the rules of the game. Today, it is not in the legal order, it is not a question of blurring a conviction, but it is known that if there is a blur, it has specific consequences in different fields. We see no reason why this premise would not be introduced. That's most of all. About the optional... This is where the whole discussion was going on, how to settle the issue of a lack of bond, how to write it down, so that the court, and first the social worker, can assess that this is indeed a condition that allows not to charge the person with payment. And we have proposed, Ladies and Gentlemen, the provision in exactly Article. 64 we added a point. 7. In which we say that the person liable to pay the fee should demonstrate, in particular on the basis of the documents attached to the application, a gross violation by the person addressed to the social assistance home or the resident of the maintenance obligation or any other family obligation towards that person. So it's a gross violation. What does it mean to be intimidating? A lot of people have asked. Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, this is the concept that appears in the laws, in the various. If necessary, I will of course serve it. This means that this practice has been applied by the courts for many years. There are specific judgments where there is an explanation as to how the court understands the word "screwing." As a clear doubt, at first glance clear, obvious. Well, that's the first thing. Threatening doesn't mean every one of them. Such a question may arise and such questions arise, if something was wrong with family responsibilities, for example. Someone didn't care about their kid, which means he can get his hands on it. Oh, no, there must be a flagrant, exceptional violation. The court will know exactly what these situations are. Of course, the case law will regulate it in some way, and it will clarify it even more. This is the first case. Case number two. The first relates to the definition of "incriminating' as regards the maintenance obligation. Why? Because, ladies and gentlemen, this often happens, Mrs Kochan said that after a woman or a man leaves home, a man or a woman or a man doesn't want to have anything to do with each other anymore, they don't want to go to the courtroom, they don't want to conduct proceedings anymore, they don't even want to have alimony. They want to break ties. So there's no verdict. In such a situation, if it lasts for a long time and is gross, because it did not care, did not care about children, it depends, a woman or a man then there is a basis for exculpating. A second example of a breach of obligations, including gross, family ones. These family responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen, are enshrined in the family and caring code. This is, ladies and gentlemen, art. 95. What's this? Well, it's a duty of mutual respect and support for parents and children, a duty and the right of parents to take care of the person and property of the child, a duty to care for the physical and spiritual development of the child, to prepare the child for work, to maintain constant contact, to attend school classes by the child... These are specific cases that may give rise to exemption from payments. I don't want to expand this subject anymore. I would like to ask you to take this proposal kindly. I think that in this field we probably have a uniform position, I think, regardless of whether anyone is in the power camp or in the opposition. This is a system error that needs to be fixed, and here there's just no policy. I, of course, cannot promise, Mr. Marshall, that I will not stand here soon with another proposal that will no longer find such understanding on your part, but that is the point of politics, that is obvious. However, in this particular case, we must correct the gross injustice of the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. As you wonder where the absolute command to love your parents comes from in the legal system, I conclude that it is from teaching Jesus Christ. But I am just from the fact that this government is presenting a project that is very brightly different from the teachings of the Church... I'm not worried about that. I will vote in favour of this bill. So much for what we're surprised about, Minister. [[Minister. Member of the Council of Ministers Michał Wójcik: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u121	Yes, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Minister, you scared the hell out of me with your conviction. Because normally it's 10 years since the end of the sentence, there could be shorter periods. So in a case like this, I would call it, typical, that, let's assume, father, I don't know, abused his child, and that was when this child was a child, then convicted, assumed, for 3 years or 5 years. ♪ I don't know, we can be here ♪ He's been out of prison for five years, 10 years, 15 years, and this father after a period, I don't know, 30 years has become infirm, and now he must be in DPS... And he can cover himself up with that recipe because it's definitely gone... I mean, his crime is a mess. So you don't just fire the baby with the bath. You wanted it well and overdid it, putting it into oblivion. The effect will be that instead of improving the situation... [[Timer signal]] ...will make the situation worse for people who are trying to relieve themselves of the cost and maintenance obligation. [[Voice from the room: Was it?]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u122	Mr. Senator Czerwiński started his question with the word "crazy" and logic indicates that, in his intention at least, it was a question. And the Minister now has every right to address that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u123	Mr. Senator, to my knowledge, the institutions should actually apply obliteration today. If they have that kind of knowledge, then... If the crime has disappeared, it can't be the basis... That's what it says today... It's just not in the specific rules. It's got to be in the recipe. Well, Mr. Senator, this is a legal order, we can't simply deviate from an institution that regulates material criminal law, we can't adopt regulation, systemically deviate from an institution that normally functions in the law. Well, we can't do that. And I can say that today, it's used. This blur is a prerequisite for optionally exempting a person from payment by... I'm talking about a social worker first, and then possibly a municipal appeal college or an administrative court. Well, there's got to be something for something. But it's today, it's just not in order.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u124	Thank you very much, Minister. I don't see any more senators... [[No, I'm here.]] Excuse me, Senator Czerwinski. [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] I'm sorry, because I didn't quite see it. Mr. Senator raised his hand, didn't he?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u125	Yeah, I raised my hand. Minister, I have the impression that this blur is so that no one can be exempt from the DPS fee. Once again, if there's a mistrial, there's no legal crime, which means you can't apply for an exemption. At least that's what I think. Perhaps... [[Minister of the Council of Ministers Michał Wójcik: You can always perform.]] ...the formulation of this provision is...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u126	Sorry to interrupt. You can always perform because there are 2 basics. Well, one's mandatory. And this extortion of the conviction is included in this mandatory condition, which is where... Just like you. I told you, you're making a judgment, and on the basis of that judgment, the court is required to exempt you from paying for a pensioner's stay in a social security home. But there's a second base, that's an optional base. So it's not that it's not regulated, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u127	Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. If I may... [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] Maybe I'm a pain in the ass, and maybe I'm a pain in the ass for those cultural people who interrupt... [[Yeah, that's right.]] Well, culturally different. Minister, it's a simple matter. Let's just say I'm a kid and I have to pay for mine. I'm sorry about my parents. Let's assume the father who went to the DPS. And if I have a sentence that hasn't been cleared yet, then I won't be paying, and if I have a sentence that's already bludgeoned, which happens in most cases, from a time point of view, from a logic point of view, I'll be paying. Please note: this is where the blackout interferes. Maybe it was a court assessment, but it's a duty at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u128	Not necessarily, Senator. Again. There are 2 bases: optional and mandatory. Objection is in the case of a mandatory basis. If you don't, you'll pay if you do. In the case of a mandatory base You don't pay. But there's an optional basis. That's what I'm talking about, that's the second condition, that's the personal situation, and this is the second basis, the second area, the optional basis. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u129	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please speak in remote mode, Senator Lydia Staron. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, we have some technical problems, we can't hear you. [[Voice from the room: We can't hear.]] Senator Lydia Staron, do we hear you? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the hall: Let's skip this saying and move on.]] [[Voice from the room: End.]] One minute technical break. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There's still an attempt to contact the senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay, we have no contact with the senator, so I'm informing you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators Gorgon-Komor, Ślski, Błucherz, Łuczak, Gromek and Szwed have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. [[Voice from the room: Ms. Agnieszka...]] [[Get somebody for Mrs. Agnieszka.]] I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Lydia Staron. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the meeting. I'm calling a five-minute break. There will be a vote after the break. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 34 to 14 minutes 40]] I'm reopening the session. I'd like your senators to remain silent and take their seats. We proceed with the consideration of item 17 of the agenda: the Act on one-off provision of money for anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. The text of the Act is contained in print No 575 and the report of the committee In print No 575 A. I would remind you that the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has recognised the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure presented a proposal for a legislative initiative. This proposal, together with the draft law, is included in print No 595. I would like to remind you that the proposal for a legislative initiative is presented by the rapporteur together with the committee's report on the bill being decided. After hearing the request, the Senate shall decide in the vote on the accession to the second reading of the bill. If the request is accepted, the second reading shall be held at the same meeting as a separate item on the agenda. Failure to adopt a resolution on the accession to the second reading means that the draft is referred to the procedure set out in Section IX of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to take the floor and present the report of the committee on the bill under consideration, as well as the request of the committee to take a legislative initiative on the draft law amending the Act on activists of anti-communist opposition and those repressed for political reasons and the Law on Orders and Awards.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The bill under procedure is a parliamentary submission, which, I will tell you immediately, has obtained unanimity in the Sejm. The Act provides for a one-off payment of PLN 3 000 to any person who has the status of an anti-communist opposition activist or a person repressed. This amount cannot be occupied by the bailiff, cannot be taxed on income tax, must not be included in all criteria that affect the payment of certain social assistance funds. There was no discussion on the subject of this law during the proceedings on 10 December this year, i.e. during the deliberations of the Committee on Family, Senior Policy and Social Policy. We all thought it was a step in the right direction. We have just taken a resolution that is important to the Senate about the tragic accidents in the mine and tomorrow, as I know, the Senate delegation will be at the place of this tragedy. I think that when it comes to the symbolic one, because not too much money, which Members have given to those who deserve our freedom, we owe them at least that much. And it went through with the full approval of the committee, and there was even a motion to adopt a law without amendment. But there are legislative errors in it that are so vaguely formulated that they will cause difficulties in interpreting what this benefit is. The Senacca legislators pointed out these errors and said to you they had accepted the proposed amendments. In addition, during the meeting of the committee, representatives of the environment took the floor, who were also the authors of the bill submitted earlier, much earlier to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland supplementing the catalogue of rights due to them for another law, which they believe is important. This bill has been signed by over 200 people from the environment, people who are often on 2 sides of the political barricade today. But in this respect, everyone felt the same way. At least as far as those close to 250 people who signed the bill are concerned. So far, the Sejm has not dealt with this draft law, introduced by the environment, and has therefore been asked to take a legislative initiative to the senators. We have taken this effort, but also based on the very reliable work of the legislators, whom I thank most sincerely from this place, because the submission and amendments that we could have made as a possible addition to the one-off money delivery law went beyond the scope of the law. And therefore two things that were very important to the environment. The first is the possibility of applying for postmortem status as an anti-communist opposition activist or a person repressed by those authorities. Today, they could do as proposed. Those who work in non-governmental associations who work in ordinary associations and foundations are asked to do so. It's the world's usual memory of those people who didn't want to apply for this status for various reasons, but who, after death, want to honor their loved ones or their surroundings or their fellow citizens or opposition activists. They want to tell and remind everyone that Mr. X or Mrs. X, although they haven't applied for this status before, they deserve this status. We accepted this request in the committee, recognising that this proposal is good and that we should introduce it in the Article. 69. The second point is to extend the catalogue of people who can seek the status of anti-communist opposition activist to include cases that you know from this environment. Namely, it is about people who, for various reasons, most often very dramatic reasons, very often personal reasons Blackmail, requirements, threats, fear, and fear have signed a cooperation agreement with the services, but they have never undertaken this cooperation. So they signed the agreement, but often after such a signature they informed their superiors or colleagues from the opposition about it, and they never took this cooperation, i.e.. There are no documents at the Institute of National Remembrance that they have undertaken this cooperation. We considered that such a person could apply for the status of a person being repressed or an anti-communist opposition activist. By the way, I would also like to say that the President of the Institute of National Remembrance issues an appropriate certificate on this issue in the form of an administrative decision from which it is possible to appeal to the court. This is a submission that goes beyond the scope of the Single Witness Act, but we believe that thanks to the fast track it can complement this law and meet the expectation of the environment. I will say that this is not the whole expectation in the submission in the article. Sixty-nine we're fulfilling. We figured that stretching out all the privileges... Maybe I was wrong. ... All the duties, all the opportunities that people with the status of a repressed person or an anti-communist opposition activist can enjoy are not a very good and appropriate step for the family of those persons. We also found that it was not very fortunate to object to some of this environment. It is the publication or posting in the form of a notice of a list of persons who have such status. For what reason? From the fact that this status is obtained at the request, i.e. the desire to have such a status must be demonstrated. There are those who have never applied for this status, despite the great merits of fighting for a free country. And their will in this matter must be respected. We also declared during the committee's deliberations that if a country in a solidarity, post-solidarity environment comes to an agreement on this issue, we will work on this kind of solution. This is what the submission is about. I'm asking that we process them in Art mode. 69 Senate Rules of Procedure. And the Act on one-off provision of money to anti-communist activists or politically repressed individuals has gained unanimity from the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u131	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Robert Mammoth. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Associations have asked me to thank you for this initiative, but they cannot accept the fact that this status was granted to persons who were registered as a co-worker. In that case, today we are handing the case over to the courts, and earlier this was decided by the IPN. The activists of those years believe that this is a mistake of this bill. They thank you very much for the entire bill, but this point is mistaken. What does the senator think about this? Is it possible to make an amendment and remove it from this bill? [[I have a problem with that... may I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u133	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u134	I have a problem with that, Mr. Senator, because this group of people who came... And those people who, on behalf of nearly 250, 248 people signed under the project... They think it's a step in the right direction, that it's a step that... Well, I don't know if I'm entitled to mention... One of the persons whose name is quoted as the name of a person forced or rather one from whom a signature was sneakyly obtained as proof of cooperation with the services was working for the underground, and earlier informed all her colleagues that she had met with this kind of situation on her way. So, as far as this legislative initiative is concerned, more than 200 people believe that this is a good solution and this is a solution taken from their project. It is not for me to judge which side of the divided, like everything in Poland, environment is right. Hence the initiative, which each of us, having our own views, can vote as it sees fit. I've offered this solution, and I'm in favour of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u135	Thank you very much. Senator Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u136	Thank you very much. Me in a similar matter as Senator Mammoth. So far, there has been a rule that the person who obtained the relevant document from the Institute of National Remembrance has been present at the office whose head is here in our deliberations, and this office has given it the status of an anti-communist opposition activist. [[That doesn't change.]] I understand. Only the IPN did not issue a certificate to a person who, in parallel, maybe was also persecuted by the SB, but e.g. has cooperated with the Security Service. Thus, the legislator has now returned to the situation which was the case for the first status of the victim, because in 2002 and 2005 the status of the victim could only be obtained by the person who was clearly persecuted or had action taken on the part of the apparatus of repression of the Polish People's Republic. However, after 2005 there was a change and also people who, in parallel or earlier... [[Timer signal]] ...or later they took such action, may have obtained the status of the victim. Now my question is: why tear down this state that we have now, leaving to those people who want to apply for such status, the possibility of taking judicial action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u137	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u138	Mr. Senator, today about the status of a person, an anti-communist opposition activist, according to the provisions of this law, may also be sought by the person to whom there is one document in the IPN, one confirming that she has signed the agreement to cooperate, but there is not a single document to confirm this cooperation. You know that forcing such signatures under the declaration of cooperation had different colours, rarely nice, very often looked If you don't sign it, the wife... if you don't sign it, the baby... if you don't sign it... etc., etc. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I leave an assessment of those actions and the reasons for signing such a document. I'm leaving it. One thing is certain that if, after this one-time moment of weakness or the moment caused by concern for someone more than themselves, concrete actions have not gone, there are no documents on it in the IPN, then this person may seek the status of an anti-communist opposition activist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u139	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, I have 2 questions related to the amendments you wish to submit to this law, and 1 more fundamental question concerning this initiative, i.e. grey printing, marked S. Questions related to the amendments. One of these amendments actually makes an editorial change... [[Yes.]] ...takes one of the points from one place to another. I don't know if it makes any sense, but that's another question. Perhaps you can explain to me the meaning of this, namely Amendments 1 and 2 in total. Another of these amendments, the third and last, deletes the provision that, where this is not laid down in that law, the Code of Administrative Procedure shall apply. And in the bill, I'd call it, my mother, the anti-communist opposition activists... [[Timer signal]] ...a.k.a. also applies. Isn't there going to be inconsistencies here? We do not apply this in one of the specific provisions. Throughout the Act we apply k.p.a., and in the specific provision related to this Act we do not. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u141	The senator's finished. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u142	Senator, let me put it this way: these are very technical provisions, strictly legislative. Here I rely more on the opinion of your legislators, experienced lawyers than on my feelings. If they consider it obvious that the head of the combatant's office will carry out the tasks of this law and there is no need for additional provisions on this issue, I trust them, I have accepted these legislative errors as my own and I recommend that you adopt amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u143	Thank you very much. Would the senator like to ask you another question?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u144	Yeah, one more time, but I'd like to separate it clearly. Now the question of the proposed amendment, that is, we are talking about the grey printing, about printing 595. Well, here, in my opinion, the main problem is that we don't know who came to you, wanting to soften it up. That's how I'd put it. The provisions of this main law, the Act on activists of the anti-communist opposition. I will read what you propose in this special path, a special initiative, what you want to remove from this law. The point is that documents produced with the participation of a person seeking this status are also used for the operational acquisition of information by the State security authorities for the purposes of registration aids such as registration logs, archive inventories, registration cards and the Integrated System of Operational Records of State Security Authorities. I think it's just breaking the teeth of this bill. The introduction of this amendment will cause us to go in a completely opposite direction than we wanted to go. In the case of the main law, we wanted to honor those who acted in the anti-communist opposition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u145	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u146	Well, I don't really know how to answer that, because there wasn't a question in that question. Mr. Senator has spoken against the proposed records. As for those you are not sure about, the applicants were represented by Maciej Goliszewski and Kostrzewa-Zorbas. [[Was it an organization or just a group of people?]] Mr Senator, these gentlemen were guests invited by Mr Philip Libicki to the committee meeting. This is not the first time you have cooperated with the committee. It was their suggestions that, in fact, also the legislative proposals gave rise to the extension of this wise way of calculating pensions to those who were repressed or covered by a wolf ticket. The Senate unanimously adopted this in March this year. These are people who certainly have authority in their environment, we have not worked with them for the first time. I didn't check these gentlemen's files or their connections in any of the surroundings. I trust they came to us in good faith.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u147	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] I would like to remind you that, after hearing the request made by the rapporteur, Ms Kochan, the Senate, has decided to proceed to the second reading of the bill without first reading. We therefore proceed to the vote on the inclusion on the agenda of the item: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons and the law on awards and decorations. Who among your senators is in favour of the second reading of the bill? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? [[Please state the results of the vote.]] Please state the results of the vote. 58 senators voted, 35 for, 22 against, with one abstention. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, these are...]] Oh, I'm so sorry, it's a lack of experience in voting. [[Voice from the O.R.:...in the O.R.]] Yes. Once again: 84 senators voted, 47 were in favour, 35 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has completed the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons and the law on awards and decorations. This will be item twenty-eighth of the agenda. We will proceed to this point immediately after considering the 17th point. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Act on one-off provision of money for anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. The draft law was introduced by Members. Ms Urszula Ruseck has been authorised to present the position of the applicants for the draft law. Is the Member here? There is no Member. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to the meeting of Minister Jan Kasprzyk, Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. You're welcome, Minister. And I ask you senators who are not interested in this item to leave the room and be quiet, because there is a terrible reverberation in the room.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons welcomed this parliamentary project, voted out, as President Kochan mentioned, unanimously in the Sejm. And I am pleased that, despite these minor legislative corrections, the committee has also taken a positive position. I also trust that the High Senate will take such a position. This is an occasional payment, on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the introduction of martial law in Poland, of PLN 3 000 to those who already have the status of anti-communist opposition activist or a person who is being repressed for political reasons. I would like to remind you or to inform you that after 6 years of the anti-communist opposition activists' law, the status was confirmed for 15,000 324 people, of which 13,000 795 people live. Some people received postmortem status. In the current legal order, this was done at the request of families. Part of the persons Already significant, because 1 thousand 239 died after obtaining this status. This one-off payment, if you can say so, from the Polish state, in the amount of PLN 3 000 is, as I said, occasional, one-off, anniversary. But it complements the entire catalogue of powers, which thanks to the decisions of the Polish parliament the anti-communist opposition activists have. I would particularly like to draw attention to 3 amendments to the law, which were also dealt with by the High Senate Chamber in 2017, 2020 and 2021. Thanks to the amendment of the provisions of the 2015 Act, anti-communist opposition activists are largely aligned in powers with combatants of the war period, i.e. those who fought with weapons in their hands for independence, and with combatants of the post-war period, i.e. combatants of the armed underground of independence, which lasted until 1956. For the sake of order, also to be aware that this is not the only thing that the Polish state will now give to opposition activists. I want to remind you of the entire catalogue of rights that opposition activists already have. Every anti-communist opposition activist who has a confirmed status receives a lifetime monthly cash benefit of the current amount 'Cause it's valorized. 460 zł, regardless of the income held. This is the amount equal to the amount received each month by combatants of the war period. Next: anti-communist opposition activists may benefit from the right to monetary, one-off and periodic assistance granted by the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. Such help is given e.g. then And it's happening more and more. When an opposition activist has to adapt his or her condition to the needs of a person with disabilities. The right to use health care services and pharmaceutical services provided in pharmacies, as well as the right to use outpatient specialized services without referring a doctor to health insurance, is highly appreciated. Anti-communist opposition activists also have priority when it comes to obtaining environmental social protection, including a place in a social assistance home, if necessary. The local government may provide them with assistance in the areas of communication facilities, housing, cultural, health and education services. In addition, anti-communist opposition activists and politically repressed persons have, thanks to the amendments, a tariff reduction of 50% throughout the country for public transport journeys and 51% for journeys in national communication by means of public rail transport. The opposition activists also have the right to benefit from health insurance, which is paid directly by the head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, if necessary. It has also been possible to grant grants to non-governmental organisations which perform care tasks for anti-communist opposition activists. And I have to say, it's worked out pretty well. and it works during the ongoing pandemic. The opposition activists, like the combatants, were e.g. covered by the "Dinner for Heroes," so that last year and at the beginning of this year a warm meal was delivered to their homes to minimize their contact with the outside world and to ensure their safety. Last year, anti-communist opposition activists were granted the right to compensation in a situation where their pension is less than PLN 2.5 thousand, or twice the minimum pension. If they have a lower pension, the pension authorities shall pay them a compensatory benefit up to that amount. Moreover, it was possible to exempt the monetary aid granted by the head of the Veterans' Office from the bailiff's execution, and this unfortunately existed until last year. Besides, this one-off payment proposed by Parliament, as you rightly pointed out by the President, is also fired from any chamber executions. Finally, this year the State adopted the right to use a new way of establishing core capital in respect of periods deemed to be contributionable. This is also the law of anti-communist opposition activists. They also have the right to additional 5-day leave in the calendar year. Some of these people don't have a retirement age yet, such as those of the Independent Student Association. In addition, anti-communist opposition activists are covered by such programs, such as those for combatants, programs, which the head of the Veterans' Office is responsible for. We finance, for example, their stay in spas. The point is that a person going to a sanatorium or wanting to use a sanatorium doesn't have to wait two or three years for their turn. So he chooses a sanatorium, and for a stay in this sanatorium within the time limit indicated by the activist pays the sanatorium directly to the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. A similar mechanism is also used in the programme to finance the purchase of hearing aids for anti-communist opposition activists. As in the case of combatants, we finance the purchase of these cameras up to PLN 10,000 per ear, which means they are already high-end hearing aids. These are the laws that anti-communist opposition activists already have. After 6 years, as I said at the beginning, the number of people covered by this law or who are the subordinates of the office is almost 14 thousand. Of course, we welcome every form of support for our subjects and they also take with great joy this form of support. And that's what they think of the project we're talking about, the one-time, anniversary support project, if you can say so. It is also worth mentioning that these PLN 3,000 will be paid directly by the head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons without a special application by the activist. This will take place automatically, for those who have a status, this amount will be paid. Although this is not yet the subject of your discussion, I would like to remind you what it looks like, because it may be important if this project was examined by the President, the process of confirming the status of anti-communist opposition activist. The person who is interested in having a status is present to the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, who, by administrative decision, states that the person concerned has not been registered in the security bodies of the communist state as a secret collaborator, not to mention that the person concerned was not an officer of the security authorities. It was a record which, when the bill was born in 2015, was the subject of turbulent proceedings and the Sejm, and the Senate. Leading anti-communist opposition activists were also involved in the work and such a record was developed at the time. Then, having obtained this decision, such a person shall apply to the head of the veteran office for confirmation of the status. The role of the office is no longer to check whether the person cooperated with the state security authorities in any way, this is the task of the Institute of National Remembrance... Well, I hope that about what you're going to talk about, you also have the opinion of the Institute of National Remembrance, an opinion on possible changes, I hope that this opinion is. We in administrative proceedings check whether the person in question fulfils the conditions for being considered an activist or provides appropriate evidence for his or her activities, whether he or she has evidence of witnesses or documents relating thereto. We are really doing this without undue delay, and it is also fair to say that about 200 per month affected applications in the case of approx. Of these, 18% are negative because these people receive a certificate from the IPN that they did not cooperate with the services, but are in no way able to document their activities. These persons are of course entitled to an appeal to the court, and some of them benefit from it, although the case law of the courts in this matter usually upholds the decision of the head of office in the form of the c.p.a. And when a person receives confirmation that he was an anti-communist opposition activist or a politically repressed person, he becomes a ward of the office and uses this entire catalogue of powers I mentioned. I would also add that in the case of persons who are dead in the current legal state, a family member may apply for the status of such a person. Why was there such a record? Therefore, as I mentioned in the case of this process of x-raying by the Institute of National Remembrance, that in order to obtain the status, also postmortem, a process of vetting of a given person must be carried out. There is no provision that associations, foundations or other bodies may do so, for example because the decision of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance may be challenged in court. If there is an association or foundation This discussion was held in 2015 and who will then become a party to the decision of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance? However, as I mentioned to you, this status is posthumously broadcast, only at the moment it is at the request of families. I've had the privilege of granting 290 people this status. Like I said, some people died. If you don't mind, that's where I'm gonna end my speech. If there are any questions, of course I would be happy to answer them. The idea of this project was that these 3,000 zlotys should be paid, we are prepared for it as soon as possible. The amendments proposed by the Legislative Office are of course extending the legislative work and we will be paying the money next year, because it will still go to the Sejm. I think that's when we're gonna be paying those amounts from January. I just wanted to point out that the assumption was that we could pay such funds around the anniversary and before Christmas. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u149	Thank you. Minister, stay on the stand. [[Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons Jan Józef Kasprzyk: Good.]] At present, senators may report from a place of no more than a minute's duration to an authorised representative of the government related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're Senator Jerzy Czerwinski first.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first question is strictly about the law we are talking about, which is a single provision of money. Indeed, you have rightly pointed out here that any amendments will delay entry into force. This also partially changes the meaning of the bill, because it was to be paid for the anniversary. But one of these amendments has, in my opinion, in addition to the formal nature of the It is also of substance. Namely, it consists in the removal from the law of the article. 10, which at the same time commands the use of c.p.a. Since you will be the one implementing this bill, I have a question: will such removal help you, or will it prevent you from doing so? I think it's gonna stop, and it's not gonna help. I would ask you to dispel my doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u151	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u152	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, we have put forward our position at the committee meeting. They were also submitted by lawyers from the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. With full respect and appreciation for the work of the Legislative Office, we believe that these amendments are of such a nature that they do not project so much on the implementation of the law that they are necessary. But of course it's not up to me to decide. We have reported comments and doubts about this. As for what you asked, for us, as a later contractor of this provision, it is absolutely irrelevant, also with regard to the mechanism of payment of funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u153	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u154	Minister, I would like to ask you, in your hands, to thank you, and to you, and to your colleagues, for the day-to-day care of those who are being repressed. I'm aware that this is a difficult question. . whether the Minister or the Office has any estimate of how many authorised persons these applications could not have been submitted. I have heard of such two cases, Jan Litynski and Henryk Uncle, if of course this information is precise. But I'm curious if you've ever had a chance to make an estimate of what group. people we speak. It is about people who would have formally acquired rights and who have not submitted such applications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u155	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator! When the law was written in 2015, you will know best that Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, no one thought what a group of people would be. There have been talks of 300 thousand, including conducting certain surveys and surveys. The Institute of National Remembrance originally estimated that it would be about 100,000 people. It turns out, after 6 years, that perhaps the closest truths were editors of the Solidarity Encyclopedia, because they stated that the law would be covered by about 30 and 35 thousand people. Seeing certain dynamics in the submission of applications by interested parties, given that after 6 years and important amendments I'll talk about it at the end of the answer. We've got a bunch of 15,000 people... The dynamics of the application is roughly constant, i.e. about 200 applications per month, but increases e.g. the number of negative decisions, because these conclusions are unfortunately increasingly less documented or these are the conclusions of people who write directly: I was against the communist system, I went to Masses for my homeland. Well, it's not enough to get the opposition activist status of an anti-communist activist. And a more curiosity example: a person writes that in spirit she was against the communist system, spoke about it and did not receive permission to go abroad. To our question. 'Cause that's the procedure, our officials drive around asking questions. Did you apply for a passport, the answer was no, I never performed because I knew I wouldn't get it. I give examples of the first of the shores concerning those who receive negative decisions. I presume, Mr. Senator, that here really the closest truths were the editors of the Encyclopedia of Solidarity, speaking of the thirty-35 thousand. I would add that we thought that in 2017 and 2020, when an extremely important amendment took place, namely, in short, giving the opportunity to acquire the right, and following the law specific financial means... I am thinking here, for example, of this witness, to which all activists are included, if that is what they wish, or compensation, for retirement. We thought there would be a sudden surge of conclusions. The tide followed, but it calmed down and the impact of the proposals reached about 200 applications per month or one and a half per month.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u156	Thank you very much. Do you still want to ask the senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u157	May I? I'm very sorry. Minister, I would like to ask you if you believe that there is something that we should consider from the legislator's point of view, which is not in the projects that we are discussing today, and which we may need to consider in the future. It's about legislative solutions. Because even with these estimates, it turns out that not even half of the eligible persons submitted these applications. What would you consider reasonable to introduce, or at least what do you think should be considered, or should it not be introduced in the future? It is about solutions which will result in the fact that we will be able to thank effectively, in this symbolic way, a larger group of people who have been involved in the democratic opposition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, many ideas have different representatives of the anti-communist opposition community. The signatories of this letter, which you spoke about, Senator Kochan, are of course not the only environment. There is a Council for Actioners of Anti-communist opposition, in my presence, in which they are very widely represented, regardless of the current political dispute, various anti-communist independence formations. The postulates are different. One of them that would actually align anti-communist opposition activists with combatants It's just that they're saying that maybe this isn't the moment yet. It is the granting of powers in some part of widows and widows after activists of the anti-communist opposition, as it is in the case of veterans. It's just that the effect of that would be that in the case of... I'll use the cheat sheet. We have 56,000 860, and the widows and widows of the veterans At different ages, they're often people, I'd say, in the strength of age. We have as many as 83,000. And the penny that widows and widowers receive at the end of their lives could still get... Well, you know, that's what the bill said in 1991. It's a request. quite often occurring when we meet anti-communist opposition activists and oppressed people. He's under consideration, but I think he's following what they're saying. That maybe not yet. Let's try to close this set in some way. It's expanding all the time. . persons covered by the authorisation. Of course, there are a lot of ideas, but not all can be implemented, for example because of the financial possibilities of the state. Part of the activists It was quite a large group that thought that it should have a pension of the average national gross salary. Only here should we remember that a certain balance should be maintained between combatants and anti-communist opposition activists. If opposition activists were to... And she's still a little disturbed. I mean, this pension compensation, because combatants don't have compensation benefits like this. However, this pursuit of balance is extremely important because they fought for the same, for independent Poland. The ones with guns in their hand, the ones with no weapons. As I say, they fought for the same thing, so this balance in powers should be preserved. Although I can honestly say that the number of cases that we wanted to implement, including the office in 2015, we also listened to the demands of the environment, which were reflected in these three important amendments. In 2017... here a great bow towards the High House, because in 2017 it was an initiative of the Senate. Please note that in 2015 the provisions of the Act said that e.g. this benefit of PLN 400 is paid only to those whose income criteria are very low. It was you who initiated the legislative process And glory to you for that. This means that the revenue received is not affected by it. Someone receives this witness because he fought the commune, not because he is a poor man. Right? It's the same for veterans. The 2020 revision was a personal idea of sleep. Cornel Moravian. The idea was that opposition activists would have a pension higher than the lowest Ubeck pension, which means they would have at least PLN 2.5,000. And finally here I am honoring the environment that has been tabled by some of the amendments that Senator Kochan has tabled, which is an environment focused on Dr. Kostrewa-Zorbas and Jarosław Maciej Goliszewski. It is about this amendment this year, the re-calculation of initial capital and the amount of pensions. Time spent in prisons, non-contributory time, time devoted to fighting for independent Poland, the time resulting from this perturbation at work, is now a real basis for recounting pensions. So, as I say, these 3 amendments have, in my opinion, implemented most of the ideas of both the government and the environment. But, of course, there's still a lot of ideas, and I mentioned two.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have the following questions. Question one: If the bill had left the Senate without any amendments, I hope that the President would have signed it very quickly, that it would have been published immediately, then how much time would it have needed... How long would it be for these benefits to be realized? But what if we made these amendments? If it were the House's will, it would require the bill to be returned to the Sejm. In the Seym, it would probably be considered... I can't remember when, but I guess in early January, it wasn't until January. I just think... unless we pass this bill today, maybe the Sejm would consider it tomorrow. But that's just a distraction. Anyway, how long would it take? How long is the period foreseen here? I think this is important, especially for those who listen to our debate and wish to have such precise information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, the bill requires us to pay this one-off benefit by the end of March next year, which is strictly written down. The second point is that this law will cover those who will become activists by the end of this year until 31 December 2021. We as an office are ready to pay these funds right now, because it's a matter of running accounting, and that's it. Please bear in mind that it is us as office, not pension authorities, who pay this cash benefit monthly, so we have all the data of the people who receive money from us. There is no need to process any application here, it simply follows the automatic decision of the head of office addressed to the person concerned and follows the measures. So we're ready now. I don't know when there's a Sejm hearing that could be considered. As far as I'm concerned, it's probably January 12th, but I'm not entitled to... That's all it takes. Unless I'm wrong. Perhaps it's like you mentioned the senator or someone else, I mean. If it were voted out and the Sejm could take care of it right away, then immediately after the signature of the President and the announcement, we would have acted.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u162	I understand Senator Jackowski wants to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u163	I would like to ask you one more question. I understand that this benefit is income tax-free. [[Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons Jan Józef Kasprzyk: Yes.]] Will it be counted, 'Cause after January 1 comes the Polish Load... [[Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons Jan Józef Kasprzyk: No.]] It will not affect any contributions, anything, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u164	None. This was mentioned by the president, Senator Kochan, but, of course, I confirm. It is free from taxation, bail-out and all the things that would indicate that in connection with the receipt of these three thousand zlotys it will be a loss. This is just like the monetary aid that the State adopted in the amendment at one time: if the head of the office provides assistance to the anti-communist opposition activist, it is free of bail-out. Besides, we thank the senators very much for this amendment. It was processed last year. Unfortunately, many anti-communist opposition activists are in such a situation that the bailiff, as to say, is just waiting for some funds to enter the account. So fortunately, in this case I answer no, in the case of these 3 thousand zlotys I also do not. I would add that there are many such cases that one of the householders also has a benefit. So this is a financial injection for a particular person, often multiplied by two, because marriages worked together in opposition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u165	Thank you very much. You are asking the question of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u166	The rhetorical question to the Minister. Minister, do you know that after Thursday's recess the Sejm is meeting on Friday and can vote on this bill? [[Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons Jan Józef Kasprzyk: I did not know that. This, Mr. Marshal...]] All right. [[Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons Jan Józef Kasprzyk: That's good, that's very happy.]] That's the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u167	If so, then, please, for the sake of clarity of the comments of the Legislative Office, acceptance by the Senate and then referral to the Sejm will not diminish the deadline which is given to us for the implementation of the law. [[I think the club bosses can communicate on this, and I'm sure...]] [[Voice from the room: We have applied...]] I'll back it up. [[Voice from the room:... Act without corrections.]] [[I'm not talking about adopting a bill without amendments.]] [[Voice from the hall:... Then the Sejm could vote...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u168	Good. Senator Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As far as I'm concerned, I don't think there's any I.P.N. in the O.R. However, we would just like you to be closer to the issue of the amendment. It's that gray print, that's 595. It is about removing certain registration documents from evidence of cooperation between the person concerned. How do you feel about this recipe? Is this gonna help the IPN, or is it just gonna be that it's gonna become an object again, I'm gonna call it political friction? At that time, in connection with the forty years of martial law, I don't think that's very appropriate. But that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u170	Thank you very much. I too, Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, may speak on my own behalf. I lack the position of President of the Institute of National Remembrance here, because it is on him, not on the head of the office, who will be responsible for the decision that will enable the person concerned to become an anti-communist opposition activist. As I said, the Veterans' Office no longer conducts any further investigations, based solely on what it receives from the Institute of National Remembrance. I know very well and many of you know how hot the dispute was in 2015, when a position has been reached that has been in force for 6 years and is mostly accepted by the community of anti-communist opposition activists and those who have been oppressed for political reasons. I made my doubts at the committee meeting, and I can repeat them. I believe that, without the opinion of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, it is probably necessary to maintain some restraint over changes in these records. It is about extending the catalogue of persons who could apply for status to those who have signed the cooperation but who have not established it. Well, whether they've established or not, the president of the Institute of National Remembrance will decide. And it seems to me that his opinion, whether or not the institute will undertake such a work, is crucial. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the issue is not just about status. The issue concerns, as you will see, the granting of the Crosses of Freedom and Solidarity. The case also concerns the fact that the project includes a time in which the President of the Institute of National Remembrance is to review backwards all decisions taken in this matter. What led the environment, a group of two hundred and forty activists of the former anti-communist opposition who signed the letter, is, of course, my assumption, the sincere and honest will that the cases that were also reported in the media, the cases of people who undoubtedly acted in the anti-communist opposition, and who stayed, for example, because of their... I don't want to name names. Well, it's about people who were employed at a place where they had to sign a cooperation commitment, but immediately later they informed about it. The case concerns one of the leading activists of the Workers' Defence Committee, their colleagues and their colleagues, the information was made public in the Newsletter of KOR, etc. etc. So, as I assume, the intention is for such persons. I'm just saying one more time, Mr. Senator: I'd like to know the position of the Institute of National Remembrance in this matter. And when it comes to the second point, that is, the possibility of associations, foundations, I will honestly admit that in this project, which you have received, they have been deleted, I do not know why. and it is the omission of the project presented by anti-communist opposition activists Government and self-government bodies. Because if the intention was to, for example. Someone has been granted the status of activist, and this status could be requested by a voivode, a marshal of the voivodship or the president of the city, a mayor or a mayor to the president of the Institute of National Remembrance... That was also the intention of opposition activists. Well, at this point, you're discussing the bill from which it was removed. All that's left are foundations, associations. Now we can have a situation. And that raises even more of my doubts. In which association... Well, we assume there's a good will. The Association wants to commemorate someone by giving him the status of an activist. At the moment, the family might be asking for it. The Association applies to the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, claiming that it has a good intention to commemorate a given person. But really, it's an association... It's pretty general, too, because based on association law... So any association can go to the president of the Institute of National Remembrance just to see if the deceased was a co-worker of the security authorities of the communist state or not. [[Mr. Marshal...]] And now... [[That's what I'm talking about. Because I feel like we're not on the agenda here.]] [[Only the next one.]] [[Only the next one. I'll be happy to take part, because this is about this particular presentation, but right now we're talking about a one-off grant to those who are being repressed.]] [[The voice from the room: But the question was for this.]] [[So if...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u171	Okay, Senator, I appreciate your concern, but I do believe that the Minister has the right to answer the question as he thinks. [[But, as I understand it, I won't have to...]] [[The voice from the hall: About... This is not the point.]] But these points are connected. [[Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons Jan Józef Kasprzyk: Since the question has not been repealed, I answer that question.]] Please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u172	And ending... As I say, I can't answer that, because the real reason I'm running this office is because it's not gonna be my responsibility. The president of the Institute of National Remembrance is actually the most appropriate authority to answer questions related to this. All I'm gonna say is that any association and any foundation will be able to address the president of the Institute of National Remembrance. Suppose the President of the Institute of National Remembrance decides that the person concerned will not be able to obtain the status because he was a secret collaborator of the state security authorities. In the present order, a family may appeal against such a decision. Who's gonna be the organ that's gonna appeal this decision to the president of the Institute of National Remembrance? Association? Foundation? If they act in good faith, yes, but it may just happen differently. I hope it doesn't, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u173	Thank you, Minister. The next question you ask is Senator Antoni the Man in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u174	Thank you very much. Minister, while we're discussing this bill, which will be later, I'd like to ask you... Because I know the intentions of the applicants. I know what person this is about when it comes to emollishing the status of an opposition activist and a repressed person, as far as this record on the registration of a secret collaborator is concerned. I will definitely ask Senator Magda Kochan the same question at the next point. But I also have a question for you about this, because this is a very important, important problem. In the opinion of the applicants, the verification system needs to be harmonised. To standardize this system... Well, it has to be said that today's legal status is that there's a soft solution in the law on the judging of security officers, and here we've adopted a tough solution, exactly what the Senators of Law and Justice have requested today. I personally believe that if we harmonise, we need to amend the Illustrative Act and introduce a sharp solution in the Illustration Act, so that the very fact of registering a secret collaborator in it also determines that this person was a secret collaborator. Because today we have such a situation that many acts, that is, evidence that these people have cooperated, have been destroyed, because we all know how they were destroyed... [[Timer signal]] ...the Security Service Act at the beginning of the 1990s. However, all information could not be removed so easily in these registers. And sometimes such a condition may be hurting, certainly hurts one of our colleagues, about whom the case is very loud. That's why I think it might be necessary to do some special status, but unfortunately you can't only open wide gates for this one person when it comes to verification of secret co-workers or verification. Now, in a positive sense, Democratic opposition activists. This criterion must remain the same as in the Act on democratic opposition activists, this is a tough solution. Well, some people may be hurt, and one person is definitely wronged, she's hurt today, and we know about that person. But you can't just leave it... [[Mr. Senator, it's time to ask a question. We know what's going on.]] I will vote in favour of this bill, Mr. Marshal, on the condition that this rule, which you have asked Senator Czerwiński to remove, as well as the other senators, such as Senator Mammets and others, will be removed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u175	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u176	I don't think that was a question for me, Mr. Senator. I just accept it. The decision to unify it either one way or the other is your decision... [[Parliament, yes.]] ...as a legislator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u177	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u178	Minister, inspired by your response to the IPN, the Institute of National Remembrance, I have a question. It is often the case that from the documentation of the Institute of National Remembrance, which is not 100% certain, one cannot conclude whether the person has signed a commitment and has cooperated or not cooperated. Because it closes in the formula: no supporting material was found, which means that she might not have cooperated, but she could have cooperated. And now, hypothetically, if he's addressing you right now, In the current regulations, a person who has been informed that no documents have been found at the Institute of National Remembrance and who will present documentation that he was an anti-communist opposition activist, what is the pragmatism of your office's work in granting such status? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u179	If I understand correctly, Mr. Senator, this person will receive the status of activist because he will present the decision of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance that there are no documents in the archives of the Institute of National Remembrance that he has signed documents obliging him to cooperate with the security authorities of the communist state. This decision is the basis on which that person requests the head of office to confirm his status. But there's one more thing I'd like to say. Namely, it happens often... maybe not often, but it happens that in so-called. Meanwhile, after the status is granted, the documents are found. At this point in time, with the legal provisions in force, the Head of Office may, at any time, initiate administrative proceedings and revoke his own decision granting the status. If it turns out that documents were found as a result of e.g. A query. As you know, it is a matter quite complicated by the process of destroying files, etc., moving them from various MMA delegations during the functioning of the Polish People's Republic. And then that's the status. I say, these aren't common cases, but they happen. The decision of the Head of Office shall not be received, but the decision to confirm the status shall be revoked. This mechanism, of course, also exists. The decision of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance is a document which is essential to start the proceedings for confirmation of the status. We as officers of the Veterans' Office do not examine the archives of the Institute of National Remembrance. He's doing it according to the IPN Act. The result of these archival searches is a decision. If such a person is unhappy with her, she can sue her. She comes to us with this decision, and we're just investigating whether she was really active. And if there are doubts, then we use help e.g. Voivodship consultative councils appointed by the voivodships, which sit on the ground and give opinions Which is not binding, but most often so. The request of the person for whom they are, let's say, doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u180	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Chróścikowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u181	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I am an agricultural representative of the "Solidarity" and many proposals have been passed through my office. I know some people can't get it. Often it was that the activity in the village was very conspiracy activity and there are no documents to confirm whether it was by the security services... They were interned, but they were active in the '80s. Witnesses have already left, for example. There's one witness left. And if this one witness confirms it, the Institute of National Remembrance says, unfortunately, no. And besides, there's a recipe that says you have to prove that it's been going on for 10 months or so, and so on. And it wasn't legally, at a time when the relationship existed. 'Cause they think it doesn't count. But when the union was already suspended, at that time after martial law. That's what matters. Okay, so recognition... [[Timer signal]] Those who acted, so to speak, very harshly, were registered because there were protests and other things, they are not recognized. Is there any way to make sure that those people who really... I know the people who were in the action, they were working, but we can't testify to that. Is there any other solution that would give these real activists... I often repeat: they had a duplicate, but nowhere is it documented. They were so conspired that there were no documents in the IPN.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u182	The evidence of the activity is varied. These may be documents, but they don't have to. These are also statements of at least two witnesses. These are also the statements of the person concerned. We are trying, Mr. Senator, to help with really great care, but also with some confidence in those who apply. Well, one element is to listen to the person submitting the application. One of the elements of the evidence proceedings is the opinion requested by the Voivodship Advisory Councils. We try to do our best, knowing that many people's activities are undocumented, does not come directly from what the Institute of National Remembrance has gathered. However, I would also like to point out that the Act states that the action between 31 August 1980 and 13 December 1981, i.e. during the Carnival of "Solidarity', does not give rise to an application for the status of an activist. In this situation, 10 million members of the "Solidarity" would be granted the status of an activist. This is about acting in a situation where this activity was threatened by any kind of repression. [[Yes, but... may I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u183	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u184	Well, the situation can also be the same as the Zamość strike, which lasted during the martial law period, although it started in normal times. These are Siedlce, this is Zamość. People were taken out of there. They risked themselves, then they were harassed. Some were able to prove it, others weren't. Well, this is a case of people who really... Because I know these people, and I know they were walking, putting themselves at risk, on strike. What they were doing... [[Voice from the room: But they applied for status?]] Well, they did, but the IPN doesn't have any documents to prove that they were involved.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u185	I'd like to fill in the blanks. Please bear in mind that we are discussing a law on opposition activists or those oppressed for political reasons. Of course, repression is the easiest way to prove it, because it is usually reflected in the relevant records in the IPN archives. If a person has been subjected to various forms of repression as a result of his or her activities, the evidence of these repressions is usually in the archives of the Institute of National Remembrance. Although I don't rule out that what you're talking about is some particular case that maybe needs to be looked into. I'm at your disposal, of course, with the office.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u186	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u187	Thank you very much. I would just like to conclude by thanking you for the questions, thanking you for this initiative, and I will add that at 5 p.m. he is holding a meeting with anti-communist opposition activists, a pre-Christmas meeting. As I said, in the case of what will be mentioned in the next item, the most appropriate answer is the Institute of National Remembrance. If the Marshal is willing to release me from my presence... I have to go to this meeting, there are activists from all over Poland. But there are staff here from the office and the family ministries who will also provide all the answers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u188	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. First I ask Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka to speak. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u189	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This month we are celebrating a very important anniversary, 40 years since the martial law was introduced. This anniversary prompts us to consider the period of communist power and to fight against the system that strangled the freedom of Poles. We think of both victims and executioners. Sadly, these others have largely avoided responsibility, some are even now being promoted to high positions or functions. The victims most often didn't get justice. We have failed in this field, but we can still seek redress for at least some of the victims, those oppressed by communism. For parts, because too many anti-communist activists have left in a sense of total underappreciation. We must act very carefully in this area, we cannot drag it out in time. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on anti-communist opposition activists and politically repressed persons has been in force since 2015. The law was very expected by the environment of people who showed courage in actions against Peerellian power and who met repression and harassment in the family, social and professional dimension. Not all of them have been able to find themselves in a new reality, some who are lost have suffered even poverty. Sometimes, the only support they could count on were Christmas packages from old colleagues. Thanks to the Act, regardless of their property status, they received assistance in the form of monthly allowance of PLN 460. In the Opole Voivodeship, where I live, there are about half a thousand such people. This number is constantly changing, some of these people are dying. But many probably haven't checked in until today. Currently, sick people who need wheelchairs, glasses or hearing aids can apply for additional help. In April 2021, President Andrzej Duda signed an amendment to the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. It introduces the right to compensation for anti-communist opposition activists where the pension is less than PLN 2 000 400 gross. The benefit shall be granted in the amount which is the difference between the gross amount of PLN 2 000 400 and the amount of the pension to which the person is entitled. Today we are working on a one-off money provision law for anti-communist opposition activists and politically repressed people. The Minister said that we waited with this bill until Christmas to get these people a Christmas present, but it looks like they're not really getting this Christmas present, perhaps for Easter holidays. However, this is another step towards helping activists who fought against the communist regime for our freedom. The Act grants the right to a single payment of PLN 3 000 to persons with a confirmed decision of the Head of the Office for Combatants and People Repressed status of an anti-communist opposition activist or a person repressed for political reasons. The purpose of a single monetary contribution is to provide additional income support to these persons. This amount shall not be included in income within the meaning of the Individual Income Tax Act, in the context of the possibility of deduction that may be made per disabled person. It is not included in the income criterion that entitles you to a housing allowance. In addition, it shall not be included in the income criterion set out in Article. The 8th Social Assistance Act. The additional cash benefit will also not be included in the income criterion which entitles persons unable to self-existence to grant a supplementary benefit. The amounts of one-off cash benefits shall not be included in the income referred to in the Social Pensions Act. Nor does the right to family benefits referred to in the Family Benefits Act or maintenance fund benefit include the income of the family member referred to in the laws include the amount of one-off cash benefits paid to the family member. No deduction or enforcement shall be made of the amount of the single payment. A one-off cash benefit will be granted by means of an administrative decision. Therefore, it does not require justification, it has immediate enforcement and will be paid ex officio by the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, as I said, by 31 March 2022. They will not have to apply for a single payment, which is certainly a great comfort. In the case of an entitled person resident abroad, a single cash benefit will be paid in the country of residence to the bank account of that person abroad, the payment will be made in a convertible currency. The provision together with the cost of handling it will be financed by the State budget and the financial consequences of the proposed regulation are estimated at about PLN 42 million. The President of the Council of Ministers will have the possibility to transfer, by regulation, planned budget expenditure between parts of the State budget in order to ensure their transparency and due to the degree of implementation of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, the activists of those years emphasize that they lack the appreciation of those who died earlier. In this case, the allowance should go to the hands of the spouse This is most often the case for wives, of whom it is worth mentioning on this occasion. After all, when a husband acted in opposition, they had to care for their family, to be concerned about what else might happen. Children, depending on their age, were also indirectly under pressure when their parent was involved in anti-communist activities. Without a doubt, this subject is very complex and it is difficult to find solutions that will satisfy everyone. Nevertheless, such efforts are worthwhile. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, it's been 30 years since independence. I think that no one, after partially free elections, realized how his further fate would turn out, in which direction Poland would develop, whether it would be poor years, decades poor, or honey years in the European Union, crisis and pandemic. Time was rushing inexorably, and there was always a lot of things to do, to make up for. It seemed that we would still find a moment to settle the times of the People's Republic, to punish the guilty and to reward the deserved. Today we all realize that it didn't work out. Therefore, we need to correct our mistakes beyond divisions, and we need to do so as soon as possible, best and justly. Undoubtedly, one-off cash benefits will not significantly improve the quality of life of anti-communist opposition activists and politically repressed persons. This initiative will probably put a smile on their faces. The question is, did we do everything we could to make it a happy smile, not a bitter smile? To conclude, I would like to thank Senator Magda Kochan for the legislative initiative supplementing the current law on additional powers for anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed. Perhaps it will bring more joy. More justice, I'm sure. Thank you, Magda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u190	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think there's no doubt about the very idea of this bill. It is important to congratulate applicants, because this is a very good idea, especially since probably everyone who accepts in the Senator's offices meets with various activists from his district, who are often in a very difficult material situation, and such support, although one-off, but in a significant amount, as an expression of special recognition and respect, is undoubtedly a very, very positive solution. During this time we celebrate the 40th anniversary of the introduction of martial law, the dramatic events in the mine of In these days, several decades ago, these various dramatic events took place in our history. There are witnesses to those events, the heroes of those events. And I want to talk to you about something in the context of this discussion that has been going on here. Well, I was in one of the county cities, knowingly I didn't use the name "in my constituency" at the celebrations of the 40th anniversary of the martial law. There was a paper by a highly valued and reliable historian, and I'm not going to mention his name at the moment. It's gotten into unique materials. It turned out that in this city in the police station, the former police station, now the police, there were 10 files of martial law records, about this thickness, like from here on the floor, which was to be destroyed, and some coincidences were not destroyed. They were created by the Civic Militia and the Security Service. And these materials show, in a sense, that the preparations for martial law began much earlier than it is commonly believed that this famous document signed by Wojciech Jaruzelski in March 1981 about the main directions for the introduction of martial law... I do not quote, I do not remember exactly its name. But it was already, so to speak, the next stage of these preparations. And from the material stored in these files. you can see clearly that it was defined who was to be interned with, with whom to carry out warning conversations, what assets of informants, secret co-workers can be counted on and what the internment procedure should look like. And, ladies and gentlemen, there is such a bleak picture of this that these arrests were carefully programmed, that a security officer was planned, in what cover, at what time, at which address and who he was supposed to stop, what had to be done in a situation of difficulty. It was very detailed and detailed, it was not such a spontaneous action. That's one thing. Secondly, the number of secret co-workers who cooperated with the repressive structures of the Polish People's Republic is appalling. It's shocking, for a relatively small community, what it was like in the county city. I think that as far as cooperation or non-cooperation are concerned, it is not entirely true that no documents have been retained. There's a myth of burning files. Yes, there were crops that were burned, but it's not quite like that. And I think, in connection with what Minister Jan Józef Kasprzyk mentioned in his statement, when he was asked about a circle of people who benefit from the status of a person repressed or oppositionist from the times of the Polish People's Republic, that he is not so big, because unfortunately there are also people who are afraid to ask a question to the Institute of National Remembrance. This is a question that triggers the entire procedure for obtaining this status. The Minister made it clear that this status had to be obtained first, and then attached to the application documents confirming either opposition activity or the fact that the Polish People's Republic was being repressed during the period of the Polish People's Republic. We can't avoid this discussion. Do not be surprised that this discussion is undoubtedly very difficult. I realize that there were very different situations because I was a person... I have the status of a victim of the National Remembrance Institute. The 2002 statuses... The person who was a secret co-worker couldn't get that status because the bill was amended in 2005. It could also be that if the person who first was a secret co-worker, then broke off the co-operation and for example. She went to the opposition side, had a documented opposition activity, was persecuted, she could begin to become a victim. However, on the basis of the first testimonies, the statements of being a victim of a secret collaborator could not have obtained such status. This law was very repressive at the time, and I will remind you that it was passed at the time of the Government of the Election Action of Solidarity and the Union of Freedom. High Izbo, I am talking about all this so that we remember that in spite of all this, a certain moral separation is needed, who was who at a given moment. I don't want to judge the motivation of secret co-workers, there were very difficult situations in life. I know that. There's been some kind of breakdown. There were facts that someone signed a commitment, but they didn't actually cooperate, they informed about it. There were very different situations. However, in my opinion, it is not possible to create a law that would create such a grey zone. And from this point of view, I share such personal reflection with the High House. As for the bill, of course, I have no doubt. I hope we can make it as soon as possible. My fellow Members asked me when we would deal with this. Mrs. Marshal, couldn't we at least order a vote on this bill today so that the Seym can consider it on this current... [[This is that bill...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Yes...]] I'm talking about this one right now, about starting up, Mr. Marshal, the 3,000 zlotys, so that this opportunity will be here as soon as possible. I'm already considering the bureau of our High House. I think that everyone, with understanding, would approach such an action, and I think that Marshal Witek would not resist here either, to bring this into line with the current session of the Sejm, if there were, of course, amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u192	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Viktor Durlak, Janusz Gromek, Mariusz Gromko, Aleksander Szwed, Grzegorz Czelej and Eve Gawada made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Jerzy Czerwiński, Robert Mątkow, Marek Martynowski and Wojciech Piech. The discussion is closed. There's no government representative. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of point twenty-eight of order... [[Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, I'm here about the formal...]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u193	After your announcement of the closing of the point, I do not know which point was the closing point and which of the laws concerned the conclusions, because Mr. Marshal... [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: It was... I'm telling you, Senator...]] But if I may, I'll finish my sentence. The one-off benefit did not raise any controversy, but the way your predecessor conducted the proceedings led to the fact that the debate was in fact about the next item. And now I don't know which of those points your marshal closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u194	That's what I'm saying. We have completed the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Act on one-off provision of money for anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. And now... [[If your marshal will allow me... Mr. Marshal Pop...]] Senator, can I finish? You'll know right away. [[Good.]] We proceed with the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons and the Law on awards and decorations. I would remind you that the project was presented by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure and is included in print No 595. The provisions relating to the first reading of the draft law in Senate committees shall not apply when considering this project. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to present the bill. [[Mrs. Marshal on the matter of order... because Senator Kochan asked if the amendments had been tabled to 17th. That information, I understand, was about Senator Lover.]] [[Yeah, yeah.]] [[Because there was a formula that...]] Yeah, to 17th. [[Yeah, yeah.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u195	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Fellow Senators! I think it would be abuse or excessive scrupulousness to present for the second time in less than an hour the draft law, which is attached to the printing and which I propose to adopt in the form of an article. 69 Senate Rules of Procedure. In fact, all your speeches, the questions that Minister Kasprzyk answered, were more concerned with this submission than the previous item on the agenda concerning a single benefit. So if you have to answer questions, I am at your disposal, but I will not discuss the proposed changes again, if possible, Mrs Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u196	At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Magdalena Kochan to represent them. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I see Senator Jan Maria Jackowski... who's first? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Senator! I have a question for you. It seems to me that the attention of Minister Kasprzyk was correct to get to know some position of the Institute of National Remembrance, as I understand Now the burden of determining whether or not the cooperation has been undertaken will fall on the Institute of National Remembrance. Wouldn't it be useful to consult in this regard? Don't you think it would be helpful for the senator to consult on whether the Institute of National Remembrance will be able to implement such a law in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u198	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, here's what I'm gonna say. It seems to me that the Institute of National Remembrance is not only to collect, but also to verify and publish or to respond to the need for publication of certain documents. Therefore, in this regard, I do not agree with Minister Kasprzyk's view that the opinion of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance would have an impact on the quality of the law established by the right-holder in connection with the constitution and the way in which we have the legislator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u200	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! In the case of this additional law, this draft law has been used as a path which is acceptable in the Senate rules, but it is applied rather when there is no dispute about the reasonableness of the proposed amendments, in addition, outside the mode of normal examination of the law, when there is simply no political sport. And here's a political dispute. We have witnessed this both during the vote and during the presentation of the speeches, also with regard to the statements of Minister Kasprzyk. I wouldn't dissuade him because he has experience, he's always dealing with these procedures, and we don't have that experience, at least not that big. [[Timer signal]] Then I will ask you if it is not appropriate, if, of course, you wish to insist on giving up this extraordinary path, because this is a form of an emergency path, and to report it as a normal legislative initiative. Then we will have reasons, appropriate opinions, etc. I'm just suggesting not to tear it down. I don't know what to call it a consensus in relation to the previous law, although he, I think, will be preserved.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u202	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u203	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to say that under no circumstances And if someone understood it that way, then I don't take responsibility for it. I do not confuse Minister Kasprzyk's statements. I simply do not agree with such a statement, with a minister or high-ranking government official, and the head of the Veterans' Office has the status of minister, who has a different opinion on this, because I believe that legislation belongs to senators. The Institute of National Remembrance was called to preserve national memory in these good and bad views. It seems that the Institute's opinion on a case such as the possible granting of the status of such a person or confirmation of its cooperation with the communist security services... It's just what this institute is for, so to speak. And the opinion of whether or not we're gonna give him a job or if we're gonna add a job... I don't think this is where I should be asking for information. So, in my opinion, this is not a confusion of the Minister's statements. Secondly, as to whether or not we applied this mode... We applied it with the permission of the committee and at the moment with the consent of the Senate in gremio. I'm not backing out of those records. They were proposed, initiated, once again, by a group of people representing 258 signatories of such solutions. We talked to this community during the meetings of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee and there I made very clear why specific issues were not introduced by the initiator on their basis, based on the inspiration of the masters, or actually the draft law... It was about which records I can make through the Sejm and which I can't. And the gentlemen agreed with me. This is not the idea of the Senators of the Civic Platform or the Civic Coalition. This is the initiative of a group of solidarity activists. I thought this was an important initiative, and this is how I present it to you. This is not the idea of legislation and solutions applied by. Once again I will say this to the Civic Coalition, it is a set of proposals, which in the form of a complete document were brought by representatives of the environment, and under this initiative is signed by 258 activists from very different backgrounds, often standing on different sides of the political stage today. No, I don't think that's a mistake. I am asking you, in accordance with the decision and commission, and now the entire Senate for the examination of this draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u204	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Anthony the Man remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u205	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator, as rapporteur here, you are merely a relay of the will of the 258 signatories who sent this project. I must tell you that we need to think about this solution in terms of this co-worker status, in terms of what it looks like in the illusory act. With us it is used in a positive sense, because it is a democratic opposition activist and there is a negative one, because there are other criteria. And I want to make one thing clear to you. As for a certain person whose case was very loud about filling her as ambassador in Germany, the opposition is screaming... He just signed a statement of cooperation, too. There's no evidence of cooperation. He was first assessed by the court of reckoning, and then, on a principle of... In light of what the judging court ruled, the ruling coalition believes that he was not a secret co-worker... [[Timer signal]] ...just because of the judgment of the magistrate. But the opposition is screaming about him being a co-worker, and in the public debate... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, question.]] This is not just a political debate. In the public debate it appears as such. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, question.]] Do you not think that... if we are to support this project, at least this one thing must be fixed, otherwise formulate this amendment and then support it. Because otherwise I won't be able to support the entire bill, even though my colleagues have formulated it. Are you in favour of... will you be able to make such an amendment with the Legislative Office? is it my question to make such an amendment so that there is no doubt? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u206	Thank you. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, the proposal contained in the bill brought to us was also very widely and very closely examined by the Senate legislators. I know the senator's point is whether or not I'm in favour of the solution that's included here. Yes, I am. I think if because of one signed document... If there's no evidence or evidence of co-operation with the services, well, such reliable co-operation, taking money, coming in with information, selling information about colleagues, that's one thing... I think you and I remember those times. I know how easy it was to break a man, and how hard it is to confess to the next generation after that one document. Therefore, I believe that if we can spare this one, two or three people, and reward one for what she really did, contrary to this document, the only one who is... I'm in favour of helping these people in this way. Even if it is one case, it is worth changing the law in this regard. That's my opinion. Every thing that's written here, every sentence is a sentence that I don't think we should change.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u208	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Is the government representative... Are you the Minister? Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: No.]] No? Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion... [[Senator Czerwiński has a question.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, I didn't notice. [[I'm used to it, Mrs. Marshal.]] You, Senator, are usually obstructed by a person on the platform. Excuse me. [[There's no need to explain.]] Now there's no one on the platform... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a quick question. Does a government representative have authority, and if so... how does he feel about this bill, whether he supports it or not? Come back, about the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u210	Minister, if the answer is short, it's possible. [[Voice from the room: But this question has already been asked.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I don't have the authority because it's a project and there's no government position. We will refer to how this initiative will be adopted by the Senate. One of the decisive voices must definitely have an Institute of National Remembrance, because he is at the moment competent to judge all these issues. It's pretty controversial, I'm not hiding, which is why it takes time and thought. In these few statements, even if you were Senator Man, there were some doubts, too. Well, that's something you really need to think about. So I can't speak for today because I don't have the authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u212	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u213	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! First of all, I would like to remind you that in March, at the initiative of the same group of people, opposition activists, whose representatives were Mr Gliszewski and Mr Kostrzewa-Zorbas, we passed a bill introducing conversions for the period of illegal activity, underground activities or democratic opposition. These conversions are much more beneficial. The previous timer was zero. So the previous law included activities in the opposition when you were being repressed or hiding, or... well, it was working for independence and democracy, and there was no formal employment. Previously, only this time was taken into account, i.e. the working time needed to obtain pensions. In March, we adopted a law which provided for the average remuneration as the basis for the contribution to be paid during this period of operation. But there's one problem. People who have a pension and who have worked should apply to the Social Security Office themselves. If they don't, they won't get this more favourable conversion. According to my information, authorized persons don't come forward with applications because they don't have knowledge. So my speech on another matter begins with this appeal: you have to write a request to the Social Security Office to recalculate your pension if you have the status of an opposition activist or a repressed person. It's an introduction. As for the bill that comes out of the Senate, I would like to say that this law is not fully implementing the proposals that have come to us. First of all, it doesn't extend its status and this supplement... It's not congratulations, it's a level playing field for people who worked, didn't work, were repressed. It's not a bonus. This is an equalization which the Polish state decides to implement. And if so, it seems to me that the situation is not such that it can be extended to family members. Why? For a different reason. Very often and most often, if the husband acted, did something, printed, organized, sold, the wife did the same. Therefore, she may apply for such status individually. However, as I say, this is not a family benefit. This is a witness addressed to those who acted, risked themselves and, as I say, also had legal consequences because they lost their freedom because they were thrown out of work. This isn't about a one-time situation either. If someone went to the demonstration and was arrested, then he was repressed, of course, but if there was a situation that he had a newspaper, handed over a newspaper, etc., once... Well, the bill says you had to act continuously, not once, with the jump. I think it's right. And now I'm going to refer to the case of a false illustration, because the illustrious act is a completely different act, it concerns a collection of other people. But if, in accordance with the Illustration Act, a negative assessment or statement that someone was an agent, as if he were marking a man for life, and if, according to this law, a solution is applied to appeal to the court and a solution that says that a one-time record alone is not enough, because there must be cooperation... This bill was functioning and functioning. The more important act, according to which the effects are more significant, applies different definitions and the possibility of appealing to the court, and here only the IPN decides and cannot be appealed to the court. You can't. And here's the definition: there's some material that says someone worked together. And it's over, you're here, man, cooked, and the case is over. And how it is, and it wasn't... That's what happens to my friend at the Workers' Defense Committee, the man of great credit that he signed is material. And after a week, he was deregistered. He told us about it, told us he signed it right away. When I was discussing this with the president of the IPN, he would spread his hands and say: there is nothing I can do because, according to the law, there is no possibility of further procedure, there is no possibility of appealing also to the court. What can this poor man do? Nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, I have some experience in this matter and I will tell you that I know very well the cases of the five people who signed, told me, informed me about it, and then cooperated with me for many years. I kept the archives with one of the people, and that's how I got the archives today. Another person is an employee of the port of Gdansk, who is now completely on the other political side. He wanted to make money, he drove the Swede to Krakow, unfortunately he did it during work... [[Voice from the hall: Not the minister.]] [[But not me.]] ...was tracked down and told: man, art. 52. It's an article that's a wolf ticket. And he signed it because he had no contact with the opposition before and so on. And this is one example. I know five such examples of people of really great courage, people who have sacrificed themselves and about whom I have full confidence. I believe that this solution is not only necessary but also necessary. Because if I have five friends that I've been working with, then others have. The example of this man from the NRA should really show that not only is it written in the archives of the NAP... 'Cause these are sometimes those records... Something more has been preserved, for example. the signature of the statement, etc., but sometimes there is only a record in the book Therefore, it is necessary to be able to appeal to the court. Otherwise, we're gonna hurt people we shouldn't hurt, and we should reward them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u214	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u215	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It is profoundly symbolic for me that it is probably one of the shortest, if not the shortest of my speeches in the Senate, that I can speak after the Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, for me one of the most beautiful symbols of fighting for free and democratic Poland. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much and very much. [[Applause]] I would like to thank all those involved in the activities of the democratic opposition, for the activities of Solidarity. I am consciously speaking on these two points, because I welcome every project that allows us to thank democratic opposition activists. I still think that all of our actions are modest gestures to what these people risked, fighting in the interests of all of us. After all, as was said here, certain decisions, legislative solutions are compensation for what they have lost or opportunities they could not benefit from. And I have to tell you, I'm even a little embarrassed. Because what is the sum of PLN 3,000? I can tell you that I only take this as a symbolic summary of all that you've done, your risks, what you've given and what you've fought for in those most difficult times. And so far, I will support all such initiatives. I agree with the marshal that, in the case of these most difficult and often dramatic situations which come to be assessed by administrative decision, often blind, a court which weighs certain evidence and circumstances should decide. And I'll end with wishes. I wish to all those who acted in the democratic opposition, to those who acted in Solidarity, that you would have the conviction that the insurgents in January in the Second Republic had. That the Polish state honors you, appreciates you, can take care of you and remember you. Because in fact this Polish country, through the memory of you and respect for you, shows respect for its own statehood and whether we will remember those who gave themselves most to this country. Thank you very much again. Thank you for what you did for Poland and for us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u216	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Invited guests! Perhaps the first point of clarification, because those who observe our deliberations from the outside may have the impression not so much of a kind of chaos but rather of misunderstanding. The project came into the Senate. It's not a project, because it's already a bill. From print No 575, the Act on one-off provision of money to anti-communist activists and politically repressed persons. There is a general consensus in this House that such a one-off benefit should be paid. I think we will also demonstrate this universal agreement later in the vote. We want to vote this out as soon as possible. The Commission has proposed to introduce in this short text a total of 3 amendments, but formal, legislative ones. It appears from the words of the Head of the Veterans' Office that they are not necessary, that these are legislative amendments. If we pass this law without amendment, I'm still talking about this one-off benefit. He'll be able to pay off this benefit at ease. Because we want this to happen around the 40th anniversary of the introduction of martial law in Poland, I would ask you to That's the proposal we made, that's the first conclusion, there were problems, controversy. To adopt this law without amendment. Because then she goes straight to the president's desk, we skip one step, we don't prolong it. And we heard clearly the statements of the head of the Veterans' Office that he would try to do these technical things as soon as possible. And it's kind of a request for the previous point, actually. But now we're dealing with a proposal that the committee uses in the Senate's Rules of Procedure. The rarely used but applied, mainly by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, by the way, presents to the High House. It is about introducing, like in addition to this obvious law, new provisions on the mother's law Oh, that's how I'd put it. The Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons. What is it? This proposal will not go through, I would call it a full legislative path in the Senate. Because normally this should be the case: the project, the justification is attached to the project, little of it, the positions should of course be gathered, the environment concerned should be spoken, not only 250 people. Meanwhile, this project raises very far-reaching controversy. And the controversy was already in this room. So, yes: we do not allow discussion, the discussion will be short, we do not allow the most interested persons to speak out, and we add it in such a crash mode to the act about something completely different, about a one-off supplement. Isn't there something you're... Doesn't that ring a bell? After all, you are so often accusing Members of second reading in the Seym 'Cause that's what they usually do. They propose some amendments not related to the original matter of the bill. So please note that these amendments, which you are proposing to the mother's law and which are not at all related to one-off service, are very far from interfering with the content of this law, are controversial. So all the more they need to think, analyze, and certainly get a position of office, which will be this project, when it becomes a law, executes, or Institute of National Remembrance. But we don't have that position. We don't really know, at least I, how the process of verifying whether a person who wants to get the status of a repressed person or an anti-communist opposition activist can get this status, because, let's just say, she didn't report. We don't really have anything, we just want to do something quick. And it's not gonna be settled, 'cause he's just gonna go to the Sejm. If now, after this debate, you will ever speak, saying that it was thrown into the Constitution at second reading in the Sejm! And we often have opinions like that. That's it. That's it. What are you doing? [[We learn from them.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you can do that, of course, because it's within the Senate Rules of Procedure. [[But they're throwing things in as amendments.]] But is that right? Is that right? [[Well, it's manipulation, really.]] And to refer to the text of this proposal, this project so far, I will say that there are, of course, less and more controversial provisions here. In my opinion, the most controversial one is the one that removes from the mother's bill the possibility for IPN to examine documents. I'm going to quote that exactly so that those who didn't sign up as one of those 250 people, and who have the status of a repressed person, know what the senate majority wants. The possibility of examining documents produced with the participation of the person concerned is removed from the mother's bill, in the operational acquisition of information by the state security authorities... [[That's not true!]] ...such as registration aids, registration logs, archive inventory, registration cards, Integrated Operational Card System. This is an open directory. Of course, all of this is produced by state security authorities. [[Where'd that come from?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know on the basis of which documents IPN is to work now, since all this is to be removed as a basis for a decision or actually giving an opinion, taking a position. And we're supposed to bring it in quickly, because it's important too. I will no longer talk about other regulations in this project. It is also controversial for me, but perhaps less, to allow organizations, foundations, associations to act on behalf of people who are already dead. Family Yes, the person concerned Yes, it is. But why organizations? In addition, it is not stated anywhere that the person whose status is to be examined would be a member of this organization. This can lead to any organization, may make a request. Ladies and gentlemen, we can do this again, and I am not saying that no, maybe we can start a new discussion about it, but dealing with it in such a way, in such controversy, on such a date and in conjunction with this obvious law, which works in favour of the oppressed and anti-communist underground workers, in a sense I consider abuse. It's like it's ruining the taste. This is a teaspoon, maybe not in a barrel of honey, but a spoiling taste of this portion of honey that we're giving this bill. Behind this first bill. Of course, we did, so we applied for it without amendments as soon as possible. As far as the latter is concerned, on behalf of the same senators, I am filing for the rejection of the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u218	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Please take the floor, remotely, Senator Anthony the Man.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To what Bogdan Borusewicz said about this member of the KOR, who was affected by these inconveniences I can add that I really am even more convinced of the innocence of this person, and even I am probably proof of her innocence, living proof of her innocence, because in the 1970s I worked with this person and if this person were a secret collaborator, I could not carry out the mission that I carried out, namely the transport of paperwork from Warsaw to Gdańsk. I did it very often and in large quantities, and I never stopped by. I've always picked up this paper from the person they're referring to. I'm fully convinced of her innocence, and I'm even proof of her innocence. However, I believe that we, as parliamentarians, must act logically, with common sense. We need to be fully aware of what the study on cooperation with the Security Service looks like today, this is not a study on archives, but on the remains of these archives. I believe that this gateway to the acquittal of many co-workers can be opened too wide. If there is no amendment amending this provision, which Senator Czerwiński has said a little more about, then I cannot vote in favour of this law, because I believe it is necessary to act responsibly. I know, because from the initiators or even the authors of this bill, this broader bill, I get information about what debate is going on in my environment, in the environment of the democratic opposition and the former activists of the Solidarity. They just compare me to Lenin, they say I follow the communist rule that you can sacrifice a unit in the name of a case. Like Lenin in the name of communism, it's me in the name of judging purity. But I'm absolutely not, I don't know, a gourmet or condemn... I'm really very gentle with ex-collaborators, with a lot of ex-collaborators, knowing their situation... Bogdan was talking about the innocence of those five people, and I'm here... even if they were guilty, they were harmless or harmless. I remember exactly how they behaved. I'm still friends with them, there's no hostility or obstruction with those people who were co-workers. I believe that the Senator and the Member can function in accordance with the opinion of the authorities, indeed these 258 people, most of them, which I associate, are authorities for me, maybe all of them, but the authority should not control reason, that is, logic, common sense and knowledge that I have. I will never vote against my own mind. I can vote against authority, I can vote against even my beliefs in some matters in the name of other values, but I can't vote against logic and reason. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not change this provision concerning the IPN documents when investigating the matter of cooperation, i.e. We will not reverse the castration of the President of the IPN or the IPN itself in relation to such cases, because this, according to common sense, can be compared to intellectual castration, is simply not going to vote in favour of this law. I think it's a case like this that needs to be taken, but it really must be cases like this... Because that person in general's opinion... There is probably no person, I do not know the person who would tell me that this person has signed, so maybe he has something on his conscience, because her entire life story even shows that her thesis of cooperation based on this signature is contrary to its functioning and in the years of the democratic opposition, and in the years of solidarity. She's never cooperated, and she's done a lot of damage. As far as the paper is concerned, it was certainly the most fertile person in the community of former opposition activists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u220	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take... Would the marshal like to... [[No, no.]] Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u221	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I am merely referring to these allegations from which we give up these documents in the new proposals for laws. Do you suspect that in any of the 258 people involved, with the status of opposition activist or repressed person, there will be the thought that the others who are seeking this status will be relieved of everything they have experienced until they have obtained the status? Would it ever occur to any of you that among these activists there will be a decision... that they will say: you know, the next ones who will seek status, let's release from all these requirements, let's not reach the resources of the Institute of National Remembrance, let's eliminate all the necessary documents that we used to use? After all, this, ladies and gentlemen, is really either unreasonable thinking, or thinking very unfair to these people, or manipulating, because I don't know what else. The point is that we now refer to the Act on the disclosure of State Security Authorities documents from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents. What documents will he have to submit to the person who is applying for the status? The State security authorities' documents within the meaning of this Act are: any media of information irrespective of the form of storage of information, including in particular files, files, registers, computer files, writings, maps, plans, films and other image carriers, sound carriers and any other forms of recording, as well as copies, copies and other duplicates of such media; necessary for the analysis of information supporting measures, and in particular programs for automated data processing to be transmitted to the IPN archives under the provisions of the Act of 18 December 1998 on IPN Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 177. The documents of the State Security Authorities within the meaning of this Act shall also be subject to the transmission to the IPN Archive of court files and judgments given by the courts in any case which has taken place in connection with the documents referred to in paragraph 1. 1. The document relates to a person within the meaning of this Act if he contains information, in particular personal data, which allows him or her to be identified on the basis of these or other documents. That's all I'm saying to correct. Nobody's slowing anybody down. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz said something that all of us should have behind our heads: to hurt always the easiest, to help much harder. Anger, anger, dislike or dislike of a senator may cause one or another reaction, but it will not affect me or the members of the social policy committee, it will affect those who simply deserve such status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u222	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Jerzy Czerwiński, Marek Martynowski, Robert Mamytkow and Wojciech Piech. The discussion is closed. I propose that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft law still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Law amending the Public Health Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 572, and the report of the Commission In print No 572 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u223	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present a report by the Health Commission on the Law on the amendment of the Public Health Act and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 17 November 2021; Senate Print No 572 A. On 18 November 2021, the Senate Marshal referred the bill to the committee. The bill was examined by the committee on 9 December. The Commission requests and asks the High House to adopt the Commission's position, to adopt the law together with the amendments adopted. High Izbo! This revision of the Public Health Act concerns actually one issue, namely the establishment of a centre dealing with addictions from 2 existing entities: PARPA, an institution dealing with the treatment of alcoholism, and an office dealing with drug addiction. What was the purpose of the merger for applicants? It is clear in the explanatory memorandum that the aim is to ensure that all activities in the field of prevention, solving both alcohol and drug use, i.e. addiction, are concentrated in 1 institution. We can discuss here for a long time whether this is a good direction or not, the sentences will probably be divided. But we take the idea that maybe this combination of two units into one makes sense. During the meeting, the senators looked very closely at the records and clarified certain issues as well as asked about certain issues. First of all, the senators were very interested in what effect we would achieve by combining these two institutions, because it turns out that although these institutions are organized, in terms of the preservation of buildings, administration, management, etc. Everything remains intact. So the question is what is really going on in the combination of these two units. But like I said, there could be different concepts. Some are in favour of combining and expanding certain institutions, others are in favour of separate activities. During our work, when we were very careful with the various provisions, we found that a few amendments should be made. These amendments aim to clarify certain issues and to make them clear so that they no longer raise any doubts. The substantive amendments concerned mainly 2 areas, namely the Council... What was that advice called? Advice on Anti-Addictance. We have made some adjustments here, for in the following article the tasks that this council is to carry out are very precise. Therefore, we believe that in order for her to be an active body and to be able to carry out these tasks also in the field and not only centrally, this needs to be clarified and added to certain persons who will be able to carry out such tasks. And the second area that raised a lot of doubts is the equalization of addiction specialists. There are addict psychotherapists who have either a specialty or a certificate. The discussion on this issue was quite long, because we were absolutely in agreement with the position proposed by the Ministry to align these two professions, but we were clarifying certain provisions so that, for example. in the light of the contracting of services with the National Health Fund, there was no doubt. Finally, the committee adopted a number of amendments. Amendments 1, 2, 4, 7, 12, 18, 25 and 28 are purely technical and legislative, clarify the rules and eliminate punctuation doubts. Amendment 3, as I said, is aimed at modifying the composition of the Council, which means we agree that such advice should be, absolutely, but we are slightly changing its composition, in line with the tasks to be carried out. Amendments 8 and 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 24 and 29 are intended to postpone the date of entry into force of the Act. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed that the law should enter into force from 1 January 2022, i.e. in 2 weeks' time. It seems impossible for us to do so, unless the President works on Christmas, but above all impossible because these offices have to merge, they have to start working together. That is why we propose that this date be postponed to 1 March 2022. Not 2023, as it was understood in the committee, but 2022. The next amendments, namely Nos 14 and 16, address the issue of equalising these certificates of psychotherapy specialists. The amendments also aim to remove the regulations that allow those who hold a certificate to join the State Specialisation Exam because the wording in which it was adopted is unjustified and differentiates the situation of those who hold the certificate and those who have completed the specialization training. Once again, I stress that we were in absolute agreement with the line of reasoning and thinking presented by the Minister. Amendments 26 and 27 provide for the extension of existing municipal and voivodship programmes for the prevention and resolution of alcohol problems, as well as anti-drug programmes until 31 December 2020. The point is that there's a long enough time for these programs to be properly prepared by local governments. The aim of the amendments is also to require the management of voivodships, mayors and city presidents to draw up annual reports and information on the implementation of the programme of prevention and solving alcohol problems and the prevention of drug addiction only in 2023 and not in 2022. In conclusion, the committee has given a positive opinion on this law and asks the High House to adopt it together with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u224	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go. First former Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u225	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator, please tell me whether at the committee meeting any particular advantages of the proposed solution were presented in connection with these two institutions and whether, from your point of view, the person who was, so to speak, the author of the establishment of these institutions, but as two independent entities, this merger is beneficial.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u226	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u227	Thank you very much, Marshal. During the meeting, of course, we discussed the purpose of implementing the law at this point in time. It turns out that the bill had already been prepared much earlier, probably even a year ago, and actually the work in the Sejm lasted for several months. In our sense, in the Committee on Health, the time to discuss the combination of the two existing, working, having the effects of individuals in one is sometimes unhappily. But that was the decision, which is why we've been investigating this bill. And if you're asking my personal opinion... I didn't create units, I wasn't the person who opened the PARPA or the National Bureau for Drugs, I was just drafting a bill. My opinion is that the Act has been implemented to a very small extent since 2016. And I believe that now, after these six years of non-fulfilment, in fact most of the provisions of the law, the law should be amended, but much more widely. There should be some systemic issues that are not resolved, rather than focusing on creating just such fragments as for example. the establishment of an addiction centre. On a subject of agreement, I just think that we should look at the public health problem much, much wider. And I'd be more in the direction of creating a whole office or a public health area to which all individuals would be subject, rather than focusing only on such centres. But this is, as I said, a point of view depending on what you really want to get from the implementation of this law on public health.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u228	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u229	Just so there's no doubt, I'll say I'm in favour of a call. I think it'll save money, maybe build some more effectiveness. But I have a question about the fact that he's actually setting up a new institution to deal with addictions. Will she continue to deal solely with drugs or alcohol addictions? Or, for example, medicines or gambling addiction will remain outside the competence of this institution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u230	Thank you very much. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u231	Exactly, Mr. Senator, you've diagnosed the problem very well. In fact, I'm not against these two units connecting either. It's just a question of what effect we're going to get from combining these two existing units. From my knowledge, from what we've learned, nothing changes in terms of staff, nothing changes in terms of administration, nothing changes in terms of the number of buildings. Well, actually, nothing changes except that two units connect and form a center. If this addiction center were to deal with all addictions, including cigarettes or drugs, then we could say that this is a real addiction center. And here we simply combine 2 existing institutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u232	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have any... No, not this time. Thank you very much. Thank you, ma'am. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u233	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the very thorough presentation of this bill. Thank you very much to the Committee on Health for submitting its comments, in particular legislative comments. We agreed on most of the cases. In several cases, the Legislative Bureau has recognised our rations and this law will certainly be better, of course, if it is adopted. As far as the substantive amendments are concerned, some of these amendments have been repeated, and we argued quite strongly about them in the Sejm. It was related to the shape of the Anti-Addictive Council. Our position was negative there, and here we also presented a negative position as a government. It was also about technical matters. We agreed that a specialist's certificate is clearly equivalent to a specialty, but it can't be... Well, it's equivalent, but someone like that isn't a specialist under the Health Care Specializations Act. The deadline will be respected because the legislative process... It's still to be voted out in the Seym. As these two structures were preparing for this process, we are ready. These are small units, each with about 40 people. We believe that this combination will strengthen the management of addiction treatment. And I answer Mr. Bogdan Zdrojewski's question. The Act extends the tasks of these 2 units, because the tasks of these units, namely the National Office for the Prevention of Drug Addiction and PARPA, concerned only drug addiction and alcohol prevention, were related to alcoholism. And now we're also adding other addictions here, including the behavioral ones that Mr. Zdrojewski was talking about. So that's all... We believe that this is a matter of management system, that these 2 units should be connected, that this will be much more efficient. Both units are overseeing, therefore this is the sort of ordering of individuals that carry out the tasks of the Minister of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u234	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u235	A very short question. Will the running costs of this institution be increased and will there be additional resources to combat addiction in the future, 2022? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u236	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u237	Thank you. As far as costs are concerned, there are no increased costs in the impact assessment. At the same time, we believe that the funds will be better spent, for example in connection with the premises or the transfer of some workers to other tasks, because these tasks are expanding despite the same number of people. So that this institution will be more effective. As far as expenditure is concerned, the Office has not only the resources which the Ministry sends directly from the budget of the Minister of Health, but also the resources resulting from other laws. The Office carries out many tasks of the National Health Fund, from which it receives funds and these resources vary in a given year, but they have increased in recent years, especially this year and next, due to new tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u238	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Alicia Chybick has spoken, but I don't know if it's remotely... [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] You don't have a senator, so unfortunately... [[Voice from the room: It's remote.]] There's a sentence, right? Senator Alicia Chybick. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! I must say that I have a lot of doubts about whether this connection will bring anything good to the people in Poland who are addicted. Why? Because the budget isn't increasing, people will be the same, the seat will still be gone, and in fact this care, which is at the moment, especially for children, for young people, for care that... Most often psychotherapy is required, for most addictions the underlying is mental. There are about 700,000 alcoholics in Poland. Alcoholism is one of the most common addictions, the other is drug addiction. That is why these two offices have been created and have struggled so far to cope with what they have had to do, to get people out of this addiction, which usually leads to healing, but very rarely to cure, i.e. that it will never happen again. But, ladies and gentlemen, besides these addictions there is still gambling, there are behavioral addictions, i.e. syndrome of symptoms associated with repeated repeated activities or group of activities to obtain such emotional conditions as pleasure, euphoria, relief, feeling satisfied. I have read this because it is similar with the use of drugs and alcohol, which leads to about the same situation, and the situation is perhaps so much easier for those addicts that alcohol is one thing and drugs is another thing. A more complicated case is in the case of behavioral addictions, but they are equally dangerous. And these types of addictions include e.g.: purchasingholism, pathological gambling, compulsive overeating, ortho-reactivity, that's an excessive concentration on healthy food, sex addiction and workaholicism, cyberholism, increasingly common. The tragic thing is that our young people, our children, from morning to night, sit by computers, scavenging on the Internet, learning remotely, which is generally, especially in the pandemic age, stay in front of the computer from morning to evening, and this is undoubtedly scary and makes us ask if there will be cyberholics as a result. In addition, there is also phonoholism, which is a cell phone addiction, which we often observe, because someone like that is actually everywhere and running with a phone at any time. There's also kleptoholism, which is an addiction to stealing. Finally, there is bigorexia, i.e. excessive care for your body through exercise, restrictive diet, use of anabolic steroids. There is also an addiction to aesthetic medicine and plastic surgery. In fact, in this bill that we supported... I am a member, Vice-President of the Committee on Health, and we support this law, hoping that in terms of everything that I have just said will be taken care of by this new Council. Because so far, these children, and adults, are actually struggling with a lack of help, a lack of psychologists. Psychologists and pediatric psychiatrists are for a cure. There are no appropriate places where such addictions are recognised and treated. And I'm counting on it, Minister, that it wasn't done for nothing. Because really, seeing as there's no new money, there's no new headquarters, and there's no new jobs, because it's just supposed to be... You said it might include... But you can see how much there is. I am very curious, and I would like to get a written answer to the question of how many behaviorally addicted people are in Poland in the different subtypes that I mentioned, I will no longer repeat this. So that despite the amendments made, dealing with addicts in Poland leaves a lot to be desired and there is still a lot to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u240	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would like to remind you that the 19th paragraph, the Act amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Humans and some other laws, has already been considered. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the Law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 573, and the report of the Commission In print No 573 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Halina Poora, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report from the committee on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. In this act is amended several, you can say, various, as indicated in the title, laws. Changes affect different areas of our functioning, such as: amendments to the Law on Government Administrations, Water Law, changes in investments in external ports, renewal of the travel voucher, as well as support for infrastructure in educational units. At its meeting, the Commission unanimously adopted a positive opinion on the subject by introducing a 1 amendment on the replacement of the words "teaching body' and asked the High House to adopt the law together with the 1st amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u242	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Joanna Sekuła. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the Minister. My question concerns Art. 5 in which this Article extends the paragraph. 28, which in turn gives the Council of Ministers the opportunity to create development programmes... Well, the education system probably, that's the intention. Could the Minister give me the idea of this fund and the whole programme proposed in this article, and explain to me whether it is really necessary at the moment, or if it is confirmed by reports from local authorities which expect support in relation to the investment tasks that have probably begun? I understand that the bill is designed in such a way that it has an influence. It's kind of backwards... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u244	Thank you very much. Minister, you can answer from your seat. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u245	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator, I don't know if she's gonna be able to go backwards... Probably not. The creation of this amendment is based on further emerging local authorities, mainly in education, the effects of work and remote learning. Improving the educational infrastructure we can use... The government, the Ministry of National Education, is about to make amends, to compensate for all the losses that are suddenly... It is about works, tasks that suddenly appeared in educational institutions, especially public ones, but also others. The Directorates, teachers, had to react abruptly to the obligation to learn remotely as much as possible to enable and disseminate this learning system, which was a novelty. And that was the basis for writing into the covid bill, which, as I say, is intended to compensate for the socio-economic consequences, such a fund and such a possibility.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u246	Thank you very much. [[Can I ask you a question?]] Senator Joanna Sekuła. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u247	Tell me, are there any concrete projects that you see as necessary to implement in order to achieve the effect that you are talking about? And the other thing. I'll read you the recipe I mentioned. Art. 9 states that these may be tasks undertaken before the date of entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u248	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u249	I think this is about the shopping billing period. Here we say that local education units in 2020 received public support for the purchase of equipment and teaching aids. The remote school, the remote school and the active table were for the years 2020 and 2024. This is probably just a continuation of these programs, because it is not known how long the remote science will last and on what scale we will have to react. Are there any specific programs? I just mentioned... I just don't know what specific programs you're asking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u250	Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u251	Minister, we didn't write this bill, and I can't answer your question about the programmes of the ministry. You're the stakeholders, and I'm sure something was inspirational. However, if we are talking about the investment tasks that municipalities are taking, i.e. local government units, I understand that if you are planning an investment, according to the spending rule, you have secured money for it. It is difficult for me to imagine that my municipality Sosnowiec will undertake a task for which there is no funding. Therefore, it is necessary to manually control the completion of the investment by creating a provision that will give the possibility to finance tasks launched in other programmes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u252	Thank you. Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u253	I will answer briefly that manual control often takes place in local governments. But these specific programs I was talking about, remote school, active board... Well, the experiences of these 2 years of school, when the students spent a fraction of their time on remote learning, showed that aid under the conditions of successive violent waves of epidemics, implemented within the framework of standard government programs due to their formalization and legislative procedures is not... They do not give the opportunity to respond quickly to the needs of students and teachers. Hence the need to create such a fund or make it more flexible to help school heads. Well, more than that, Senator, I don't think I can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u254	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask Senator Janusz Bubbler's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u255	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a slightly different problem. I fear that it will not be the same as in the case of very large amounts of money mobilised for municipalities, more than 4 billion PLN or maybe even 4 billion PLN for investments in the field of sewage. If I'm on my own turf, the mayors and the mayors are pointing me to this problem. They've done a great deal of plumbing and have a 95% level of plumbing. And these 4 billion are meant for those who haven't done it so far and are below 90% or 92%. And they get the money, and they don't get the money. The same is true of this vaccination incentive scheme. Municipalities that had an increase, let's say, by 6%, with a level of 30%. ... [[Timer signal]] ...they get 1 million zlotys, and those that were 50% And they did 5%. increase, they didn't get the money because they've already encouraged their residents. That's what I'm afraid of here. The question is, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u256	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u257	Yeah, I just don't know what topic you were referring to. But it's true, indeed, in connection with the National Urban Waste Water Treatment Programme, it concerns another law, water law issues and these areas are diagnosed. However, here, in this area We are bound by the EU Waste Water Framework Directive. And we, as the Ministry of Infrastructure, are flexible in our approach to local governments and are more encouraging than punishing them if one of the local authorities fails to carry out the obligation to examine its local authorities in time. But that's not the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u258	Thank you very much. Senator Janusz Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u259	Mrs Marshal and Minister, just to complete what we're talking about today. When it comes to this money, isn't it gonna happen again that schools or municipalities aren't gonna get it because they didn't try and get it where the students don't have it? Those who struggled and did something, they won't get anything because that's how it's gonna work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u260	Thank you very much. Minister? Minister, do you answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u261	Oh, no. Mr. Senator said this might be the case. We're gonna do everything we can to make sure it doesn't. Indeed, the example of analyzing is adequate here. However, when it comes to educational establishments and local authorities that run educational establishments, they have so much experience that they should not have a problem with this, they have a lot of experience in acquiring and spending such funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u262	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I mean the extension of the possibility of implementing the Polish Tourist Bonus, it is only for six months extended. Wouldn't it be easier to simply abandon the deadline to which the Polish voucher could be implemented? Are there any contraindications to do that? Of course, the number of people entitled to this will be low. Besides, we in this law, in this novel, do not increase the subjective scope. Here are some time forks that can be used for children. Nor do we move time to a possible performance of the voucher... i.e. not for the performance of the voucher, but we do not increase the subjective range, i.e. number of children... number of families entitled to benefit from the voucher.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u264	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u265	Thank you, Senator. Well, the Ministry of Sport, now the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, which initiated this amendment, argued that the deadline for making payments should be extended until 30 September next year, so that it is like the first natural deadline for the end of the holiday period, when we can see whether the funds reserved for the operation of the tourist voucher will be fully or at least used mostly. I do not know whether there is a possibility, or whether the prospect of an additional extension of the term of the tourist voucher will be considered. Nevertheless, the statistics say that at 13 December of this year the sum of payments made using a voucher is about PLN 2 billion, so even half of the funds planned to be used. Therefore, in response, the Ministry of Sport indicated that the end of September would be an optimal deadline to see how this would continue to work. It is similar in the case of the whole matter of the law, the amendment of the act on countering the effects of COVID-19, where we move in a situation in which we do not decide, but unfortunately the pandemic and the economic consequences. That's why the longer... Let's see how tight it's gonna be, see how long it's gonna take. The most important thing is that the hotel industry, the tourist industry in the winter season and the summer season have at its disposal... i.e. The inhabitants, the society have at their disposal, of course in Poland, a tourist voucher.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u266	Thank you very much. Senator Joanna Sekuła. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u267	Minister, I think this is the last question. It is clear here how this programme will be implemented. I understand that there is a planned amount for the implementation of the programme. Will the Minister be kind enough to give me that amount?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u268	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u269	Unfortunately, I don't have that kind of knowledge. The Ministry of National Education is the host of this amendment and these solutions. Of course, I'll answer the senator in writing. [[But we, Minister, will be voting on this now.]] I understand, but I don't have that knowledge because I'm from the Ministry of Infrastructure that runs this project, and there are also national education solutions in this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u270	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. For the record... [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Excuse me. Does the senator want to sign up for the discussion? [[No. I just wanted to make amends.]] For the record, Senators Janusz Pęcherz, Mariusz Gromko, Alexander Szwed presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the legislative proposal has been submitted in writing: Senator Joanna Sekuła, Senator Władysław Komarnicki, Senator Jacek Bury and Senator Wojciech Necessary. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I forgot to ask if the Minister would like to respond to this request. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Grzegorz Witkowski: No.]] No. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Law amending the Public Procurement Law and the Act on certain contracts concluded in connection with the execution of contracts of fundamental importance for State security. The text of the Act is contained in print 584, and the report of the committee In print No 584 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on National Defence, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 2 December on the amendment of the Law Two proposals were submitted during the discussion at the committee meeting. The farthest motion, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to reject the bill, was not accepted, because 10 votes were in favour and 10 votes against. But the motion to adopt the law without amendments was not accepted either, because 10 votes were in favour and 10 votes against. The law itself consists of 2 articles. I'll quote them. Art. 1. The following amendments shall be made to the Law of 11 September: Article. Paragraph 12 shall be repealed. 2. Article 2 shall be repealed. 15. Art. 2: In the Law of 26 June 2014 on certain contracts concluded in connection with the execution of essential contracts for the security of the State, Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is replaced by the following: The Ordering Party shall immediately inform the Minister of National Defence of its intention to initiate a procurement procedure for the production or trade of arms, ammunition or war materials referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 (b) TFEU. The information shall include at least the subject-matter of the procurement procedure and a document assessing the existence of the essential security interests of the State. And the bill is to enter into force 14 days after the announcement. The amendment of the Law 12 and Article 12 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 15. According to Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (2) of the Law on Public Procurement does not apply to contracts relating to the production or trade of arms, ammunition, war materials as referred to in Article. 346 Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, if required by the fundamental interests of State security and the award of a contract without application of the law not adversely affected to the conditions of competition in the internal market for products which are not intended solely for military purposes, in so far as the protection of the fundamental interests of State security cannot be otherwise guaranteed, in particular by the application of the provisions of the Law on Public Procurement in the field of defence and security. On the basis of the deleted Article. 15 The Council of Ministers was required to determine, by means of a regulation, at the request of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Home Affairs, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs and the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs, the procedures for the assessment of the existence of the basic interest of the State and, consequently, such a regulation had to be established. During the discussions at the committee meeting, no more comments were made on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u272	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u273	Mr. Senator, I have a question about this article. 15, the consequences of this solution. Do you know any other cases where, in short, the Council of Ministers would be subject to a decision, the Minister's proposal, in this case the Minister of National Defence?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u274	No, I don't know these cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u275	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Radosław Fogiel was authorised to present the position of the applicants for the bill. There's no envoy. Is the government representative, Minister... [[Voice from the room: Minister Skurkiewicz...]] Excuse me, sir. The senator has sat in his seat, and that's why I didn't notice that... [[According to your previous suggestion, your marshal.]] Thank you very much. You did the right thing. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to add just a few sentences of comment as to the draft amendment of the law on public procurement. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been many controversy and comments regarding the resignation of the article. 15 of the Law on Public I would just like to point out that in this case we are talking about an article. 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which gives the possibility of exempting defence contracts from the application of the law on public procurement in certain cases. And this art. 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union refers only to the purchase of arms, I repeat: only to the purchase of weapons, which is used by the Polish Army today. This overregulation, which is contained in Article. 15, which states that the Council of Ministers will, by regulation, determine, at the request of the Minister for National Defence and the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs and the Minister responsible for the economic affairs of these proceedings, the assessment is clearly overregulation... This was also clearly indicated by the Senate Legislative Office. When these two entries are withdrawn, the Article shall apply. 15, as well as with Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, virtually nothing unusual in the legal space will happen. That's one thing. Secondly, I would also like to point out that the question of whether this fundamental interest of state security in the execution of contracts by the Minister for National Defence is being further regulated by the detailed rules which have been in the legal space of the Ministry of National Defence for a number of years, as this is already regulated in detail by Decision 92/MON of the Minister for National Defence of 21 March 2014, and this is the applicable provision, as well as Decision 367/MON of 2015. They shall specify in detail the procedure for the performance of the orders for the Armed Forces and for the execution of defence contracts in correlation with the existing or essential interests of State security, as well as in relation to Article. 346 Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. So I ask the High Senate to accept these solutions proposed by the Sejm, also by a group of Members, without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u277	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u278	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the Minister. I do not question the need to resolve a certain problem that arises in connection with the article. 346 treaties, but my doubt, which occurred not only at the committee's meeting, but also at the reading of the whole document, was that only in this way, in the way of the law, and not in the lower order, could this problem be solved.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u279	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Senate! We, during the work on the Law, on this major amendment from the year 2019, during the work on the Law Well, that correlates with art. 346 Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Today, on the basis of this practice, which has also been implemented in recent years, we have shown that these records, which are... They're either dead or they're clearly pointing to overregulation. This has been demonstrated in relation to Article. 15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u280	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u281	The Minister has slightly missed the answer to my question. I am aware that the procedures for this article, as well as the exclusion from the provisions of the Public Procurement Act of certain contracts, are possible It even took place. But the problem is the following. In addition to this bill replacing... In short, could this problem be solved by a lower order of law, a regulation of the Council of Ministers? Many countries referred to this article precisely through such acts, not excluding this in its entirety, but giving an opportunity to exclude in specific, well-defined cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u282	Mr. Senator, we haven't tried this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u283	Thank you very much. Senator Janusz Bladder. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. Do we have the opinion of the Public Procurement Office, more specifically the Public Procurement Council, on this law? Did the public procurement authority give such an opinion?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u285	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u286	The meeting of the Parliamentary Committees, the Joint Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, was attended by the President of the Office, who indicated that his position in this area was clear but looks forward to the final opinion of the Council. I have no idea if such an opinion has been issued.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u287	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I made a motion at the committee meeting to reject the bill by the Senate, and I want not only to justify it, but also to share two important reflections. Well, I do not deny, Minister, that there is a need to solve this problem, which is not a new problem. He's been performing for some time, you can say, he's layering. I have worked in the European Parliament's defence committee and I remember many concrete examples presented by the defence ministers of individual countries, but also by representatives of the arms industry. The idea was, in some cases, to exclude these matters from the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, rather restrictive, difficult. This concerned certain contracts, and this was called security. Not all elements of tendering procedures, in short, must be public. Well, they shouldn't be public. In some cases, when it comes to encryption or special devices, these needs are specific. I understand all this, and I believe that it is really important to approach this problem with great responsibility, with respect to these needs. Nevertheless, my basic doubt, as well as the opposition's doubt in the Sejm, was related to the fact that this exclusion is such a large quantifier. It comes down to the fact that in cases of ordering a variety of weapons Mr. Minister's right. In short, a multi-billion-dollar commitment can be made. I want to make this clear. Well, I wouldn't, on the one hand, like to question the need of the army to make certain purchases outside tendering procedures, which are included in a very complicated public procurement law, and on the other hand, I wouldn't want to lead to such a situation as to free the Ministry of National Defence for its own good from tender procedures. And that's one point. And I have a second point. Well, the mode was used. This was my question to the Senator of the rapporteur. In which the Council of Ministers is conditioned not only by the request of the Ministry of National Defence but also by arrangements which may not be made. Therefore, we will have an extraordinary situation in which, throughout the next year, arrangements between different ministries will continue to be made to the Council of Ministers, in short, to make a request to the Council of Ministers. Without this proposal, the Council of Ministers shall not move. In order to achieve a certain resolution which is extremely crucial for public procurement, multi-billion-dollar contracts, I stress. And the last thing is my reflection on the use of funds that in the European Union are intended for precisely the equipment that should be created in the cooperation of a minimum of 2 countries. We tried very hard to make it 2 countries, not 3 because then it is known that the strongest ones, Germany, France, and even before the United Kingdom, would dominate this market. And my concern is that if we do not apply a specific mechanism that will guarantee the transparency of tendering procedures, such high reliability, even though these conditions for purchasing are fulfilled, we can, in short, not so much lose these measures as not to receive them. I would like to make this clear that, although I am in favour of thesis, that we are dealing with an unfortunate solution, the problem is generally real and should be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u289	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u290	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! Public procurement law imposes a number of rules which are burdensome. There's no denying that. However, it has an extremely important role in protecting against abuse. Unfortunately, the truth is that it is not easy to prepare a simple and safe law. Always putting priority on one dimension means weakening the other. If the rules allow us to do so, we can look for a golden measure that will allow for maximum simplification of the rules with an acceptable level of protection against errors and abuses. The authors of this text consider that security issues currently have a clear advantage, which translates into complex and low efficiency public procurement for equipment specifically designed or adapted to military needs and intended to be used as weapons, ammunition or war material. It is therefore a matter of Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] shall apply. 15 public procurement rights which relate to tenders, contracts and purchases carried out in the event of the need to protect the fundamental interests of State security. When the provisions of the 2004 Directive were implemented in Polish law on 20 February 2013. The bureaucracy of the procurement process has increased significantly between the European Parliament and the Council. We have been eager to achieve the goal of eliminating the phenomenon of mismanagement of property and other abuses. And it worked. Compared to the past, today we rarely hear about situations where, on the basis of current public procurement law, transactions lead to damage to the state's cash register. Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, today's law can therefore be called deregulation. It involves removing 2 provisions of public procurement law, namely the said Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member This is done under the pretext of adapting the Polish right to regulation arising directly from the EU treaties and so-called. the European Union defence directive. Art. 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that "I quote "any Member State may take the measures it considers necessary to protect the essential interests of its security and which relate to the production or trade of arms, ammunition or war materials. Such measures shall not adversely affect the conditions of competition in the internal market for products which are not intended solely for military use. Referring to this article of the Treaty and under the motto of simplification of procedures, it was decided to remove from the Act. Public Procurement Law adopted on 11 September 2019, which entered into force on 1 January this year, the conditions which EU law does not require. The aim was to provide far-reaching flexibility in such difficult situations as e.g. Hybrid war at the Polish-Belarusian border, because the need for a ministerial regulation is supposed to extend and complicate the bargaining path and constitute a barrier to the rapid purchase of military equipment for the army. I'll admit the stories we've been hearing lately in the Senate about our government's regulations are appalling. This is another one of them, after the first one that... I have heard that our government is negotiating its regulations, the Polish regulations with the European Union. I don't know what's going on in this government. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, there is no doubt that we are dealing with a curiasal, hasty and opaque change of rules that have been introduced by the government so recently. The rejection of a competitive procedure should entail proving that a particular contract was genuinely concerned with the essential interests of State security. Unfortunately, the amendment of the law removes and sanctiones the long-standing practice, according to which many large defence contracts have been concluded without the principles of competitiveness. It is impossible to remain silent on this point because circumvention under any pretext of the Public Procurement Act is hitting the foundations of a fair and fair state. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, the Public Procurement Act was created to ensure that taxpayers' money was respected, secured and not issued on a highly discretionary basis by officials and politicians. Today's new law introduces almost a total lack of transparency in spending money on defence-related purchases. After all, there will be no reasonable, in-depth assessment, no control over who will buy the goods from, check their quality, whether the best offer has been chosen. This raises concerns that part of the expenditure can be incurred in a negative way for the Polish country, especially as examples of corrupt purchases multiply and multiply. I mean, it's based on art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 public procurement rights for the procurement of military equipment purchased with regard to the fundamental interests of State security could partly be applied by public procurement law on the basis of the principle of proportionality To the extent that it resulted from the assessment of the existence of a basic interest made pursuant to the Regulation. I also consider the argument that the European Union does not have an obligation to formalise these contracts as we ourselves can maintain a high level of regulation. Rather, we should press for other countries of the European Union to follow in our footsteps. I'd like to repeat what's shocking again. Listening to the government or the politicians of Law and Justice talking about the European Union and its demands, imposing something or forbidding us, I increasingly feel that both government and politicians do not know completely what it means to be a member of the European Union. The repeated comments that the European Union is imposing something on us are completely unacceptable. The European Union is 3 institutions: the European Commission, the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament. We have representatives in all institutions. Most of the Polish members of the European Parliament are politicians of Law and Justice, whom I know only because they complain and scream. I have not heard that they have prepared a draft of any directive, any regulation relevant and important for Poland. We have a representative in the European Commission Commissioner for Agriculture. I didn't hear him do anything for the farmers. In the Council of the European Union we have all the ministers and prime minister who come and complain every time. When will you get to work and when will you understand what membership is in the European Union? When do we start using this membership? When will we lead to the situation that took place before 2015, when Poland was in third place and when was Poland counted? He's in third place today, too, but from the end. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u291	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Mariusz Gromko, Janusz Pęcherz and Władysław Komarnicki made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. You're welcome, Minister. The Minister has also asked for the floor to clarify one point.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u292	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator Jazłowiecka was not at the beginning of the discussion and my speech, so, Senator, I would like to inform you personally that no one removes the obligation to apply internal acts from the Minister of Defence. I repeat: Decision No 92/MON of 21 March 2014. As a living then Law and Justice did not rule As well as Decision No 367/MON of 2015, also from a time when Law and Justice did not rule. That's one point. I would also ask you to look into your eyes and not be so blind that the Law and Justice always have something on their conscience, something they want to hide or do something wicked. I don't agree with the rhetoric you presented here from this platform. There's one more thing. Perhaps the senator has escaped because you have not read into the documents and the entire legislative process concerning this bill. On 23 November, in one of the paragraphs of the opinion on the parliamentary project, the Sejm Analysis Office indicated that the parliamentary draft law amending the law on public procurement and certain other laws is not, is not, I repeat, a draft law implementing the law of the European Union. You had every right not to know that. You may not have been involved in the legislative process that was related to this law. And one more important thing, because I don't think that's what it sounds like. Perhaps this is due to my mistake, which I made at the Senate Committee on National Defence, because I clearly wrote it in the Sejm. These regulations, this law absolutely, as I stress it with full force, do not exempt the Minister of Defence from the application of the law "Public Procurement Law." Please be aware that 80% contracts carried out by the Minister for National Defence already under the jurisdiction of this new law, which is in force, as you yourself have admitted, since 1 January, is implemented on the basis of the Law of Public Procurement. 80%. But don't expect the Minister of National Defense... I agree with Minister Zdrojewski and his statement that on strategic issues, on issues which affect the safety of our homeland, we must be able to exclude. In this case, it gives us an art. 346 Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. That's what he's using. Sporadically, however, it benefits The Government of Law and Justice. And he used it, too. Occasionally, but used the Civic Platform government. So please don't accuse us of any wicked, false actions, because I absolutely do not accept such rhetoric. I'll say it again: 80%. procurement carried out by the Ministry of National Defence is carried out on the basis of public procurement law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u293	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator wanted to ad vocem? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u294	Minister, I'm sorry, I'm actually late for this point. But I have to tell you, all the records you've offered... Resignation of the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council And, Minister, the fact that we have doubts is due to the fact that more than half of Poles do not believe this government. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Read your analysis, your grades. Not only do you meet with the voters of Law and Justice, but with all Poles, and you will hear the truth about this government. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u295	Calm down, gentlemen. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the law on amending the act on combating doping in sport. The text of the act is contained in print 583, and the report of the committee In print No 583 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Wojciech Necessary, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u296	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 2 December and sent to the Senate on combating doping in sport. The Commission met on 13 December 2021. In the course of the committee's work, the main principles of the law were presented. One of them is that our anti-doping policy needs to be adapted to the international rules that assume this primarily concerns the amendment of the law. That laboratories to track and detect doping must not be subordinate to the minister who manages sport, the Minister of Sport. By decision of the government, this subsidiary will be transferred to the Ministry of Health. There was a discussion here, because the bill should enter into force on 1 January in order to fulfil all its objectives, so the constitutional terms that belong to the President will not be respected. Except that the rules are uncontroversial, they serve those regulations that I have spoken of. There's an assumption here that the President will be able to sign it. There was another controversy about the article. Article 57 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 because, although these laboratories will operate within the Ministry of Health, the body competent to monitor the use of the expenditure limit referred to in paragraph 1. 1, is the Minister responsible for physical culture. There is an inaccuracy here, because these laboratories will work under the supervision of the Ministry of Health, but because the Ministry of Health has no authority to control, to monitor these expenses, this limit, it will be run by the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. I think it's going to be further refined in some way. In the course of the committee's work, legislative amendments were tabled, although the proposal for a law without amendments received a majority: 5 votes were in favour, no one was against, 3 senators abstained. Therefore, I can say that the conclusion of the report is: The High Senate will approve the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u297	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator, come back, because I can see that there are questions. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u298	Mr Senator, we have participated together in this committee meeting, we have listened together to the justifications for this range that you have so easily slipped through, I am talking about the gap between the powers of supervision, the substantive supervision of laboratories and the powers of supervision of the ways in which financial resources are spent. What is the result of this span? Why were such solutions left behind?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u299	In my opinion, this is the result of the discussion during the committee's deliberations... Although there was plenty of time for this matter to be carried out without such controversy, the Minister of Health was not given the authority to set such limits. It's just, if something's under the Ministry of Health... The Ministry of Health does not set such precise limits for certain areas and then it is not possible to control them. There were examples of such tests as magnetic resonance imaging, including others that are unlimited. Therefore, there is no mechanism for such control, there are no such provisions. Well, it is undoubtedly a transfer of some of the duties to the ministry, which is not to be dealt with. This was explained by the fact that there is no more time, we need to be quick about it. And sure, as I said, this case will be taken because it needs to be regulated. There is no further explanation for this situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u300	Thank you very much. No further questions? Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Sport and Tourism has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u301	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to sum up, first of all, what is the amendment to the Doping Act. It provides for a change of the entity supervising the Polish anti-doping laboratory, which is currently the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. Since 1 January 2022, the WADA accredited anti-doping laboratories will not be supervised by the resort responsible for sport in the country concerned. It was therefore decided that the health minister would take over the surveillance of the laboratory. I would like to thank the Minister for Health from this place for accepting these responsibilities. The second amendment envisaged by the amendment is to adapt to the rules of the WADA, the World Anti-Doping Agency, on which I have the honour to sit, the period during which the powers of anti-doping controllers are granted by the director of the POLADA, the Polish Anti-Doping Agency. After the changes, the powers of controllers will be allocated for 2 years. Referring to the doubts that you have had, by your senator, as well as the rapporteur raised regarding the article. 57... this is where there's been a misunderstanding about the substance of this article. Art. 57 in the version proposed by the Act concerns only expenditure incurred in part 25.Physical culture, i.e. expenditure on grants to the Polish Anti-Doping Agency and expenditure on contributions transferred by Poland to international organisations active in combating doping in sport. Only those expenditures may be covered by the correction mechanism referred to in Article. Article 57 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. Art. 57 therefore does not concern expenditure on subsidies to the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory, which after the entry into force of the Act discussed today will be borne by part 46 of the health of the state budget. The Minister of Sport and Tourism will therefore have no impact on the expenditure incurred by the Minister of Health in connection with the supervision of the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory. I would like to thank all of you, Mr Marshal, Mrs Marshal, the High House, the Senate Committee very warmly for working on this bill. The fight against doping in sport is a priority for our ministry and the Polish government. I am pleased that it is also a priority for your parliamentarians, senators. That's why I'm asking the Senate to adopt the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u302	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Zdrojewski first.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u303	I have a simple question about not this information when it was decided that laboratories in Europe must be subject to the Minister of Health, not the Minister of Tourism, because this date we know exactly, this is September last year. Much, much earlier I was a part of one of the debates and I know that the information that such an agreement is prepared was much, much earlier. This is very important to me because it is December, and the law must enter into force by the end of this year, so that we do not lose, in short, our laboratories, our competences, our EU competences. Since when did you have information that such a submissive would occur? Since when did you have that information? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u304	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator, You're confusing the 2 amendments. A year ago we were dealing with another amendment, with an amendment which also adapted our law, the Polish law to the standards set by the World Anti-Doping Agency. And we learned about the need for this amendment at the end of last year. Therefore, that amendment, which had been known much earlier, had also passed the procedure before, was passed both by the Sejm and by the Senate, and was signed by the President and this law is in force. We learned about this regulation at the end of last year, we knew about the need for such regulation at the end of last year. During this year, inter-ministerial arrangements were in place. Originally, it was considered that the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory should be supervised by another Ministry rather than ultimately by this regulation, so we had to devote some time to inter-ministerial analyses and arrangements. At this point everything is already agreed, the bill has been accepted, passed by the Sejm and is now being proceded in the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u306	Thank you. Senator, again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u307	I would like to point out immediately that I am not mistaken because we are actually dealing with two regulations, both from last year, one from standards, the other from subordinates. Only the whole problem is that the World Anti-Doping Agency described and negotiated the conditions of the laboratory within the European Union before September, but not only within the European Union, because it is known to be a global organisation, and rather quickly suggested, agreed before these decisions took place, both. However, we are currently in such a situation that we must conclude this regulation with the President's signature by 1 January 2022 with particular consequences. My question was when we had information about these two regulations, because it certainly wasn't December last year.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u308	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u309	Of course, it was not December last year, because in December last year this earlier amendment was adopted and we knew about it a little earlier. However, as the senator, the minister noticed... [[That's enough for me. Thank you very much.]] ...the decision of the World Anti-Doping Agency is only binding for us. This provision responds to this very decision setting new standards.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u310	Thank you very much. Senator Necessary. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u311	Thank you very much. However, at the committee meeting, the Minister presented another explanation for this article. 57... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sports and Tourism Anna Krupka: Absolutely not.]] Well, it was. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sports and Tourism Anna Krupka: Please listen to the recording of the committee meeting.]] [[Okay, Minister, don't argue. There'll be a question. You'll answer. There you go, Mr. Senator.]] I mean, you're not expecting the state here. no changes, you will not need to update anything, change the competences of the Ministry of Health. Everything will remain as it is now, and no changes will need to be made. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u312	Yes. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u313	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions to be asked. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sports and Tourism Anna Krupka: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! I'm just gonna talk my way out of it to cut back on time. Firstly, I would like to express my appreciation for our laboratories because they are working at a truly European, good level. Recently, we have also noted a number of additional successes in chasing those who do not comply with anti-doping regulations. I, generally speaking, would be willing to support this bill, even without amendments, because they were insignificant, and the most important thing is that we do not lose this end of the year and not cause any danger in terms of the formal status of our laboratories. That's what I'd like to stress. I remember and I'll be back by then. As with Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, we sat here with Jerzy Smorawinski, then a very important figure for the anti-doping movement, but not only. It seems to me, referring to these achievements, it is worth noting that those of our athletes who unfortunately used doping, fortunately there was not much And I would like to draw attention to that too. I consider the dependence of laboratories under the Ministry of Health to be the right direction, because doping is increasingly associated, in short, with health, with manipulation on the body, on the efficiency of this organism. And something that is very important and important: I would like all the consequences of this law to be actually brought to an end, but it seems to me that all the other competences, with one exception, can also be regulated for the financing of laboratories next year. And that's what I'd like to say for the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u315	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Wind. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u316	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm very short. Firstly, I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport that here, despite some turmoil, because there were some ambiguities about these records and there was such a large dialogue on this matter... And I do not hide that the rapporteur has only been the rapporteur because he has helped us to understand certain concepts that were closely related to the health department, if that is true, and he explained it here today too. However, one thing that came up in the report, and it was vague, I would like to clarify. It is true that the Legislative Office has developed two amendments, but they have not in fact been tabled. I'm saying this because this is where it comes in to say that they've been reported, but the committee has adopted a law without amendment. No, no one took over these amendments, so they weren't reported. The only request was to adopt a law without amendment. And these comments, which Senator Zdrojewski was talking about, took place and had their circumstances, and they also had a consensus on the committee, for which I thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u317	Thank you, Senator. Senator Zdrojewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u318	I'm really sorry, I think that'll be an excuse. I participated in this committee meeting remotely, I had trouble at the end of the meeting, so I did not hear that these amendments had not been taken over at the end of the day. Once again, if they were put to the vote, I would hold back because I think the good of the matter is more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u319	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Świlski, Bladder, Gromek, Łuczak, Gromko, Szwed have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. Oh, Senator Kołacz-Leszczyńska did the same thing. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Act on the amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Poland and the Act on the Criminal Code implementing it. The text of the Act is contained in print No 577 and the report of the committee In print No 577 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I would like to present on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Finance a report on the work on the Act amending the Act on the National Bank of Poland and the Law on Criminal Enforcement. The law is short, there are 2 substantive articles and articles. 3, which refers to the date of entry into force of the rules. At its meeting, the Commission considered a proposal for an opinion on this Law. A few words about work on the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, Art. 1 concerns the implementation of the petition which entered the Sejm in 2019. A similar petition entered the Senate in 2020. It concerns the clarification of cases relating to proceedings in the case of counterfeit money, i.e., in a nutshell, counterfeit money that appears on the market. It was that these cases were regulated by the President of the National Bank of Poland after consulting the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The petitioner rightly pointed out that this document should have the rank of a minister's regulation under Parliament's authority. The relevant bill was incorporated into the Sejm, the Sejm passed the same article. But during the second reading, a second article was introduced on the amendment of the law relating to remuneration for the work of the convicted person. According to it, 51% will be deducted. salaries, not, as yet, 45% for the purposes of the Fund for Professional Activation of Convicted and the Development of Prisonal Works. I would like to point out what was the subject of the debate at the committee meeting. We have discussed the comments made by your legislator for a long time. Let me just quote a passage: in the Parliament, this amendment was tabled at second reading. He was attached to a project that he treated about a completely different matter. The project does not have any arguments, reasons and purpose to justify this change. Nor have the effects of the regulation been presented. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the discussion was a problem that I had already mentioned yesterday and today. Please note: a new subject is brought to the Act on the National Bank of Poland at second reading, i.e. the omission of correct legislation, namely the regulation related to the remuneration of prisoners. I will say that this is an adjustment of the recently introduced resolution of the Polish Sejm and Senate Act on the Polish Łada. As you remember, there are virtually no laws at the meetings of the Committee on Budget and Finance that would not be subject to any kind of amendment. But how are they brought here? Amendments relating to prisoners shall be made to the National Bank Act and to the regulation of cases relating to the detention of counterfeit money. [[Voice from the room: Well, that's right.]] Yeah, well, some people have commented that there's definitely some people who are sitting in connection with money counterfeiting, and that's some kind of substantive connection. But these are free jokes showing how, in a messy way, without thinking, we build law in Poland, in various laws. As President Kleina said during the debate, in the Veterinary Act we will bring elements concerning Polish mining, and the topic of the steel industry will be in education related laws, etc. Such examples may be given. That was the discussion. Of course, the Deputy Minister of Justice justified that, in short, everything is okay, okay, that it does not violate the constitutional principle of three readings, which is the subject of the opinion of the legislator. Following this discussion and taking into account the suggestions made by the legislator, the High Commission has decided to make 3 amendments. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 is a purely legislative amendment. The words "refund' or "payback' or "payback' are replaced by "refund' or "payback'. Article 4 is deleted. 2, the one abolishing the rules on the remuneration of prisoners, as non-constitutional, and in Article. The words concerning the entry into force of this Article 3 shall be deleted. 2th in effect. If we're gonna delete the article. 2, then we also delete the date. At the same time, I would like to make such a minor amendment, which is also in the title... it is our fault, we forgot to delete... Now, the title of the Act should be the Act amending the Act on the National Bank of Poland. It is necessary to delete the law and the implementing penal code, because this will not be the subject of proceedings. This is what the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance calls for, Mr Marshal, High Izbo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u321	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Zdrojewski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u322	Mr. Senator, I was convinced that as far as the issue of prisoners' wages is concerned, they were regulated by lower-ranking acts than the law. I don't understand how they got into this act at all, in the proposal for a legal act.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u323	As far as I know. I say, as far as I know, this is not an axiom. It follows that cases concerning the size of deductions from the remuneration of prisoners are governed by the law. This change is that as a result of the introduction of the Polish Order... This was done in a clear way, in a long discussion, after analysis. And it has been forgotten that the new payroll laws... that, due to the introduction of the new tax-free amount, the tax-free amounts for people working in prisons are also increasing. Therefore, in short, prisoners would earn more as a result of the introduction of the Polish Deal than before the introduction of the Polish Deal. Someone came, read the same document only after it was passed, and decided that it was not necessary for prisoners to be deducted after 45 and after 51 to earn the same amount. So here's what's valid... It wasn't absolutely under discussion, but from a constitutional point of view, it's... [[Unacceptable.]] ...unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u324	Are there any more questions? No. Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Jacek Świat has been authorized to present the position of the applicants for the bill. There's no envoy, is there? [[Voice from the hall: Minister is on his way.]] At present, senators may report from a place lasting no more than a minute of inquiry to an authorised representative of applicants... No, no. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. The Minister of Justice, the Minister is Michał Woś, he is on his way... Oh, no, Marcin Warchoł, yes, Marcin Warchoł is on his way. Then I will ask: are there any questions for the Minister? [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] If there's any questions for the Minister of Justice, I'll order a recess. [[Mr. Marshal, I have a proposition if you allow the Marshal: what if you suspend this point and move on to the next one?]] There's no way. [[There's no way.]] Mr. Senator, thank you so much for the offer. [[Voice from the room: Constructive...]] It's not constructive because there's no way. You can't hang or hang or put there. We're in the middle of a procession, and all I can do is take a break. Senator Pociej wants to ask you a question. [[Thank you. No, no, no, God, I don't want to ask you a question. I'd like to ask the marshal to come to the discussion. If the Minister didn't have the opportunity...]] If there are no questions. Like I said, if there are no questions, we'll continue to proceed. [[Voice from the room: No questions asked.]] No questions. Good. Then we proceed with further proceedings, and the Minister will still be able to comment. I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Senator Klein. Is Senator Klein remote? [[There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: He won't be there.]] Senator Kleina isn't here, so we're gonna take him out. Mr. Senator... No... Senator Leszek Czarnobaj won't speak. Senator Aleksander Pociej. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u325	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Very, very briefly. In a moment, we will proceed with the next three points, including those resulting from the petition. It turns out that in the Senate we are able to work out a common position and three more petitions, which are important for citizens, can be proceded over divisions. We'll talk about it in a minute. Here I am facing colleagues from the committee, where cooperation at this level is absolutely very good. And it turns out that in the Seym there must be some kind of throwaway that causes us to deal with this controversially, we have completely different opinions. It is a pity that we will have to proceed with these amendments at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u326	Thank you, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the debate on the minutes, and you submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Blackobay. The discussion is closed. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposal and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Civil Code, the Law on Civil Procedure and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 587 and the report of the committee In print 587 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Ewa Matecka, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 2 December 2021 amending the Civil Code, the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws. On 2 December 2021, the Senate Marshal referred the bill to the committee. Following the examination of the law at the committee meeting on 2 December 2021, the committees shall submit: The High Senate shall adopt the attached draft resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 9 December 2021 on the Law amending the Civil Code, the Law on Civil Procedure at the same time as certain other laws reads as follows. The Senate, after considering the Law amending the Civil Code, the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 2 December 2021, amends the following text. Amendment one: in the title of the Act, the general definition of the subject-matter of the Act is replaced by the following: The Civil Code and the Civil Procedure Code. The second amendment reads: "Article 2 is deleted. Three, seven. Third amendment: Article 3 is deleted. Eleven. As part of the amendment to the fourth Article. 12 is replaced by the following: 12. The Act shall enter into force six months after the date of publication. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, the joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on 9 December 2021 discussed the purpose and subject of the Act, both the course of the legislative process and the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office. The position of the government was represented at this meeting by the Deputy Minister of Justice and the Deputy Minister of Health. The representatives of the Confederation of the Lewiatan and representatives of the Polish Banks Association also expressed their opinions. The changes introduced by the amendment to the law are beneficial and good for citizens, which protect consumers above all. The most important of them is the amendment whereby the submission of a request for a settlement or for a mediation procedure without the involvement of the court will result in the suspension of the limitation period for the duration of the conciliation or mediation procedure and not, as yet, the interruption of the limitation period. This in turn will eliminate further requests for settlement or mediation only in order to interrupt the limitation period. Another important change is a change that will strengthen the position of the victim. Another change is the modification of the institution of exploitation by extending the catalogue of conditions used so far, such as forced location, ailment, inexperience, with an additional condition of lack of sufficient discernment. Another important change is the modification of the principle of joint and several liability for the payment of the rent and other charges of adults who permanently live with the tenant, in such a way that the adult successors who are dependent on the tenant who are unable to maintain themselves are exempt from this joint and several liability. Another very important change is the change that introduces a guarantee of the certainty of the trading of real estate, one that will take place in the form of a notarial act in the case of land contributed as a contribution to the agricultural production cooperative. These are the most important changes. However, a lot of attention was given to the legislative process at the Parliament's meeting during the discussions at the two committees. The Senate's Legislative Office and the senators, members of both committees, reported comments. These comments concerned 7 amendments made during the second reading of the bill extending the scope of the Act on the amendment of 5 laws not covered by the amendment, which were accepted and approved by the Sejm. The Legislator expressed his reservation as to the constitutionality of such action and, in principle, as to the admissibility of these amendments due to their lack of connection with the Act in question, its original version, and the stage of the legislative process at which these amendments were submitted to the Government by the Members. The substantive content of these changes, as the legislator pointed out, does not coincide with the purpose of the draft law introduced by the government to the Sejm and contained in print No 1344. It was pointed out in the discussion that the amendments tabled at second reading and subsequently approved by the Sejm did not go through the full procedure of three readings and went beyond the matter of the draft law. Therefore, and after hearing all the opinions and comments, the committees submitted to the text of the draft law the amendments contained in the resolution which I had just mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u328	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski reporting. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u329	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, was there any mention at the committee's meeting of the extent to which the adoption of these solutions could improve the legal proceedings that are currently underway? Has any statistics fallen in this regard or not? What did the government say about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u330	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u331	As far as statistics are concerned, such statistics have not been cited, but there is a general opinion that this should significantly improve all procedures during court proceedings, especially those that take place without recourse to the judicial path and which allow suspension, rather than as until now interrupting the entire process, i.e. the possibility of obtaining settlement or mediation. For the duration of all settlement or mediation processes, the whole process is suspended, not interrupted. The interruption must then have resulted in further requests for renewal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u332	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, could you describe one-off what these amendments were about, which the committee wants to remove from the text of the bill? We know that they were introduced, I would say, on the basis of procedural issues, but maybe they are needed and work for the benefit of citizens, in favour of actors, for example. their introduction will remove some kind of legal gap. In short, what were they about, and are they expected by their addressees?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u334	At the meeting of the two committees, of course, much attention was also paid to those amendments which go beyond the scope of the proposed amendment. All these amendments This is the 5 amendments that concern health protection. At the committee meeting, the Minister, present today, said that these were not systemic changes, although he expressed them in such a way that they were changes expected by the environment. These are changes concerning certain deadlines and regulations in the field of higher education, the reduction of competence in the pursuit of the profession of a medical emergency worker, concerning certain HR solutions in the field of health care. We thought that if so, it would be appropriate to prepare in parallel the government's work, which is organised by the government, the relevant health protection laws that will come out, as the Minister said, in response to expectations, but will be in separate laws, not to take advantage of the fact that the Civil Procedure Code is being amended and try to incorporate these health protection amendments which are not related to the original shape of the law. But yes, yes, we talked about it and suggested it, even such postulates were expressed, that since so, of course there is nothing preventing this process from being given greater transparency and clarity and being prepared by the Ministry of Health for appropriate billing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u335	Thank you. You're still Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u336	Yeah, if you don't mind me asking. Because here's the question of deadlines. The end of the year is approaching and the date of entry into force of this law, as I recall, is mainly 1 January 2022, when it comes to these articles added, which means that these terms are valid and short. Starting a new legislative action... Well, it's certainly not possible to finish this before 1 January 2022. As far as procedural issues are concerned, I do not encourage this because I believe that procedures need to be followed. This is in cases, I would say, critical, in situations where you act for the good of the citizen... Even the principle of failure to act backwards is so clauseed that, if it is for the good of the citizen, it extends his powers, his rights, to put it directly, he gives him money, he just lets himself go, even though it is the law that works backwards. That and in that case maybe the issues of fairness are more important than such a clean one. I do not know what to call textbook compliance with the principles of legislative technique. [[Timer signal]] [[Was that a question? Because...]] Yes. Isn't the issue of fairness more important when it comes to meeting the expectations of the recipients?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u337	This is about legislative technology. [[Please?]] It's about the legislative technique, which is... You're welcome, if you'd like to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u338	During the discussion at the meeting of the two committees, we pointed out that we had been dealing with situations like this for some time, that this is not the first time that we are debating a completely new form of law. A law that, well, is exposed to the conclusion that it is unconstitutional Because the non-constitutionality was also mentioned during the committee meeting and which is not subject to investigation and conduct in accordance with the principles of legislative technique. We thought that such cases should affect us less and less, but we are experiencing such a process permanently. Of course, health regulations are the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. And the Ministry of Health should at the appropriate stage, at the appropriate time anticipate such a situation and make sure that the relevant laws are drawn up in good time. That's the comment. I don't think the need to make these changes will suddenly show up. And if it's suddenly revealed, then it's worse for the ministry, which is responsible for preparing the relevant laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u339	Thank you. Senator, I have a question that goes a little beyond this point... Wasn't there such a situation that the Act on the National Bank of Poland introduced changes to the law on the labor of prisoners? And this law, which is related to the Code of Civil Procedure, amends the organisation or operating rules of the health service.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u340	Yes, I confirm that this is the situation we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u341	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister... I mean, thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Katarzyna Frydrych like to speak on the bill? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Katarzyna Frydrych: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u342	Dear Marshal, Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I have the honour to present a law which was adopted by the Sejm on 2 December 2021 on the initiative of the Government, and my speech will concern the part concerning the amendment of the Civil Code and the Code of Civil Procedure, because the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health, Mr Piotr Bromber, has also been authorised to represent the Government in this case. To the extent that the law concerns amendments to the Civil Code and to the Civil Procedure Code, the Senator rapporteur has presented these amendments very precisely. Thank you very much. It was a very thorough report. I will merely allow myself, for the sake of order, to put some issues and issues in order and to bring the senators closer to the general principles of the law. First of all, the amendments provided for in the Act assume that the initiation of mediation will result not in interruption, as is currently the case, but in suspension of the limitation period. No suspension of the procedure itself. This is an interruption in the limitation period. The same effect on the duration of the limitation period will have the effect of conciliation, which is triggered by the creditor's request for a settlement attempt. This change will eliminate in our assessment the practice we observe in the courts, namely the practice of creditors to request a settlement trial contrary to its intended purpose. This is done only in order to obtain the effect of interrupting the limitation period. In this way, we will restore the conciliation process to its original objective, namely the conclusion of a settlement. The Act also provides for the repeal of the Article. 159 of the Civil Code, which constitutes a breach of the principle of preserving the form of a notarial act in the case of the transfer of land to an agricultural production cooperative. This provision is of very little practical importance, but the application of the general principles and the requirement for a notarial act will contribute to increasing the safety of trading in such immovable property. The biggest changes, as also mentioned by the Senator rapporteur, concern the institution of exploitation. The first amendment is to add to the catalogue the reasons for the lack of sufficient discernment and to clarify that the inexperience and lack of sufficient discernment are intended to relate to the subject matter of the contract. The second change in the scope of the institution of exploitation concerns the granting of the beneficiary party a choice of claim between the equalisation of mutual benefits and the cancellation of the contract. It seems that since the good of this party has been affected by the defective conclusion of the contract, this party should also have the right and decision to continue to bind it. The Act also introduces a legal presumption that, if the value of the benefit of one party exceeds at least twice the value of the benefit of the other party, it is presumed that the imbalance of those benefits is gross. I would like to point out that this presumption is outrageous, in the sense that we are shifting the burden of evidence to a professional entity which is responsible for the sales technique, the preparation of the contractual model itself. Such a solution is justified in a fair balance between the interests of the parties to the agreement charged with exploitation. We also extend the time limits for the exercise of the powers referred to in Article. 388 §1 of the Civil Code so that this period corresponds to the limitation periods. This means that, in the case of requests arising from a contract concluded between traders, these requests will expire after 3 years, and those resulting from a contract concluded with the consumer. 6 years later. We are also introducing a change in the scope of Article. 6881 of the Civil Code, according to which the liability in respect of rent obligations will be waived by the tenants who are unable to maintain themselves. I would just like to add that the introduction of this regulation is justified by the harmonisation of the legal situation of all adults living and still maintaining their initial lives, as this is already in the Housing Cooperatives Act. I would like to thank once again both the senator for a very thorough, thorough report as well as all the participants in the meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions for the positive adoption of the law in this respect, which I have presented. In particular, I would like to express my thanks to Senator Aleksander Pociej for expressing his views clearly in relation to the provisions of the Act amending the institution of exploitation at the time of the joint committee meeting. I ask the senators to adopt the law as adopted by the Sejm. As I pointed out at the outset, regarding the provisions concerning the change, which is the result of the parliamentary amendment, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Piotr Bromber, was also authorised to represent the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u343	Thank you, Minister. We are now moving on to questions to the Minister. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski came forward. [[Voice from the room: Sewerinski.]] No, first the senator, then, of course, the Sewerin Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u344	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the statistics I asked the Senator of the committee. Namely, what is the size of the government in the case of the number of these cases as regards the institution of the request for a settlement procedure, which could speed up procedures? And what types of cases do this usually involve? Because I understand that this applies to practically all civil cases, which are mostly proprietary, well, that sort of thing. If the Minister had anything to say about this... And the second question about this institution of exploitation. After talking to Senator Alexander Potie, I agree with his opinion that this is basically a clou of this law, in a positive sense, because it gives an additional instrument of justice to people who, for example, result in. Random events under the influence of emotion have made a flawed decision and have been exposed to serious losses of property or others. I therefore have a question as to whether the Justice Department has identified a number of such cases that can speed up or improve or give the parties a better chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u345	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u346	Thank you very much. As far as the question of statistics on calling for a settlement trial is concerned, as the senator rightly pointed out, these cases are mostly cases in civil courts, in regional courts, because only regional courts deal with this category of applications. There is no doubt that these changes will speed up other proceedings. Because if we are to refer the matter to a public hearing, i.e. to a creditor, a debtor to a settlement trial as a result of a creditor's request, then... the court must refer the matter to a public hearing, in other words, set a time limit for such a hearing, which means that if, in fact, the application was made only for appearance, because the creditor knows in advance that the debtor will not appear, he will not be interested in such a settlement, since perhaps such negotiations had taken place earlier, and he made this request only in order to interrupt the limitation period, then, which is without doubt, there will be a blocking of free court time. We therefore assume that if such a proposal does not result in an interruption of the limitation period, the number of applications should be reduced and that the courts will be given the opportunity to refer the cases to which the citizens are awaiting trial in advance. Statistics in this area it allows us to accept that we are indeed right in assessing this situation. In 2020, with regard to the case of a call for settlement which was referred to the regional courts, exactly 16 000 952 of these cases were addressed and only 12% of these cases were referred to the regional courts. There has been a settlement. In other cases, the court stated that such a settlement simply did not take place. In the first half of this year, the district courts recorded 7,000 361, and only 7% of settlements were made. cases. As far as statistics on labour courts are concerned, because here too, such requests are addressed by those concerned to the court to call for a settlement trial, they are even worse. Namely, both in 2020 and in the first half of 2021, only 2% of the cases addressed to the labour courts were settled. We therefore consider that if the courts have to determine these matters, they will have to direct them to a public hearing, then they will have the opportunity to refer them to other cases. As far as statistics on the institutions of exploitation are concerned, of course, the Ministry of Justice also collects these data. In 2020, only 7 such cases were brought before the regional courts, with six cases in the first half of 2021. Five cases were brought before the District Courts in 2020 and in the first half of 2021 3 cases were brought. We don't know what's causing these statistics. Perhaps consumers benefit from other measures provided for by law, and perhaps their awareness is not so extensive. Perhaps they do not know that there is an institution of exploitation, that it can also be used to solve the problem that the citizen has encountered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u347	Thank you. You're Marshal Michael Sewerinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u348	Minister, at first you mentioned the interruption of the limitation period and the suspension of the limitation period. Would you care to bring the senators closer to what's the difference? And the second question is, will both forms be included in the Civil Code?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u349	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u350	Thank you very much. Yes, there is still an institution to interrupt the limitation period as well as its suspension. In explaining the difference between these institutions, I would like to point out that until the limitation period is interrupted... If the limitation period is interrupted, the period during which the interruption takes place shall run again. So we're not counting the deadline that has already expired until the limitation period has been interrupted. On the other hand, when suspended, this limitation period, which was earlier, runs further, i.e. it is counted. This is a win-win situation for the consumer, for the citizen, because the term is counted further, does not start from the beginning. [[Both of these forms...]] Still.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u351	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will return to the institution of exploitation in this question. From these figures, which you quoted, it appears that as far as the number of cases is concerned, it does not degrade as a country such as Poland and the number of contracts that are signed with us. Well, we read in the media about these pot shows, sheets, etc. Haven't you been too careful? Because from one throne you formulate what is a gross imbalance... I think that's what it's called. Own witnessing versus witnessing to the other party. And you say it's at least twice the amount of one benefit compared to the other. And now the kind of person who's doing a pot show just isn't gonna value it on the principle... Suppose the pots are worth $1,000. Someone's gonna value it not for $3,000, but for $1,000 800, and it's gonna fit into that condition. Well, you can't apply an institution of exploitation here, because there are cumulative indications. Question: why define it in such detail? And the second question is, is this condition of value even required here? Because let's just assume that someone didn't want to buy pots and was so stunned at a meeting that they bought pots. Does it have to be a question of value, i.e. the unequivalentness of these benefits, so that it can be withdrawn from this transaction through an institution of exploitation?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u353	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u354	Mr. Senator, we can always discuss whether this is going to be twice, three times, four times, or one and a half times. What is this gross imbalance? The legislator accepted And in our project, this was taken into account. It's just twice. And I would like to point out that it is not that an institution of exploitation cannot be used if we do not achieve this imbalance. There is only a legal presumption of gross disproportion, which means that if a person has paid in the contract less than twice the amount we are talking about, he may still benefit from the institution of exploitation, showing in the course of the judicial proceedings that there was one of the conditions set out in the provision. What else is this presumption. Then the burden of proof, in order to prove that, however, this is not a gross imbalance, lies not on the flood, but on the defendant. We're moving the burden of evidence. [[I'm sorry, but I'm not really...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u355	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr... And an explanation...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u356	Mr. Marshal, I'd just like to ask you a question. Well, even though this issue is twice... Because that can actually be determined. But why even take this condition of gross disproportion? The old man didn't want to buy anything. He got hit at a meeting like this, I don't know, cookies, etc., stunned buying these pots. And then he wants out of it. He's ashamed of the situation. It's been two weeks. He informs his children and after a month the action begins. All terms, warranties, etc., the warranty's gone... And then what? That's the only rule left. And please note that he won't be able to... Because these conditions are as a product... There must be a flagrant imbalance, no matter how specific, and the issue of exploitation. Isn't exploitation enough? Well, I'm sure he's the trick of the man who buys those pots. I hooked on those pots, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u357	Thank you. [[I'm not buying, anyway...]] There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u358	Thank you very much. The introduction of this presumption is intended to help consumers. And if there's this double difference, this gross imbalance, that's what's going to help the consumer. Because the burden of evidence goes to the other side.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u359	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Minister of Health, because he's also a representative...]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[No, it is.]] You're the Minister of Health. [[There it is. So...]] Are there any more... Good. I'm gonna ask if there's any more questions... [[Because I understand that...]] ...to the Minister of Justice? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal, but the government's representatives on this matter...]] ...is the Minister of Justice... [[...are the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Piotr Bromber: I am, Mr. Marshal.]] Mr. Senator, I'm asking if there are any more questions for the Minister of Justice not to run back and forth... There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Katarzyna Frydrych: Thank you very much.]] I'd like a representative of the Minister of Justice... [[Voice from the room: Health.]] And... [[Voice from the room: Health!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yeah, I'm already crazy myself. There you go, Minister of Health Piotr Bromber. And Senator Jackowski is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u360	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have the following question. Why such a solution was adopted that, at second reading in the Sejm, it was incorporated into a law which concerns the civil code, a solution which, so to speak, was quite loosely... i.e. They're somehow tied up in there... Wasn't it better to just do it in a separate bill that would somehow systematize... Well, that's how we deal with the situation that the Sports Act will provide solutions for agriculture. Well, I'm just kidding around, but unfortunately... There's a logic here that would be necessary. That's my first question. And the other. At the previous Senate meeting, me and a few other people, the senators, asked questions to which we were supposed to get a written answer. Well, it's been over 20 days, and we haven't received that response from the Minister. So I'd like to ask... [[Timer signal]] ...to explain why it happened. Because here all indications are that it should be an immediate term. I understand that more than 20 days has already been enough time to answer in writing the questions that have been asked to which the Minister has committed himself. The marshal always asks, confirms that there are such questions. And we didn't get... Well, I am now forced to make a statement to the Prime Minister in a similar case. [[Talking in the O.R.]] So I'd like to know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u361	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm referring to the first question. The question of this time, of the time, of the circumstances in which we applied for amendments to this law is simply due to the adequacy of the action and to dealing with the situation that we currently have in health care. As the senator mentioned in his speech, it is also a matter of responding to stakeholders' expectations and actions at a given time and time. We are facing an epidemic situation and it largely determines our actions. Some of these changes are nothing more than the opposite of the witness. Extension of the deadline for submitting applications for redemption of this 1/12 or a change of qualification in terms of staffing at the dispatcher's office is about less internship while maintaining the same requirement As regards education and qualifications, it is nothing but an improvement in the operation of dispatchers, during this period of particular importance, because we know how heavily burdened they are... Well, the entire medical rescue area is loaded, and dispatchers have an important function in terms of security in this area. The extension of contracts for the following year as regards medical rescue is also a question of the adequacy of the Minister's actions and meeting expectations. Of course, if we hadn't faced an epidemic situation, competitions would normally have been announced. At the moment, there is neither time nor place to announce these competitions. Hence the proposal to extend these agreements. Changes related to internship is also an exit to the environment of the rectors who have submitted their reservations about the internship, as well as... We don't want to introduce rules, we don't want to make decisions against someone, we want to consult, we want to talk. We're facing the environment. All these changes we are talking about relate to the adequacy of the place and time. And that's why we're offering. Please accept this law as it was adopted by the Sejm. As for that second question, Senator, I'll check it out. As a rule, of course, you're right, there should be answers to the questions. The last joint meeting raised a question about the issue of casts in dispatch. The project has already been prepared. Senator Joanna Sekuła asked for this... Such a handwriting is already prepared. I'll check and, if you don't mind, I'll give this information in writing as soon as I have it checked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u363	Thank you, Minister. I have a question for you. We discussed at this meeting 3 health laws: the Law on amending the Public Health Act and some other laws; the Law on amending the Law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans and certain other laws; the Law on amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. Today there were 3 public health laws. Can you tell us why you have amended parts of the laws on health care in the law amending the Civil Code, the Civil Procedure Code and some laws, which is the law that we are currently proceeding with?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u364	Mr Marshal, as I said, this is a matter of the adequacy of the place and time, as well as of the entry into the legislative process. Many times at the Senate and Sejm committees we said that on the one hand these are of course important changes, because, as I said, they meet the expectations of stakeholders and, on the other hand, they are not changes that change system issues. Therefore, entering the relevant legislative process at this stage and in this formula.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u365	Thank you, Minister. Well, I didn't get the answer to my question, but I'm not gonna ask you any more so this isn't a discussion between us. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u366	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Rather, I treat these amendments, these changes which want to be removed from the text of the amendment, as a sort of continuation, I would call it covidary laws. As you remember, there were 3 or 4 laws in which every point or article was changed because such were the needs of the moment. Well, this is where you actually scored, asked why not the laws relating to health care... But that would also be in second reading, I suspect. I have another question, aside from that remark. Well, you know it's about COVID, you know it's about deadlines. Whether we are restricting citizens' rights in the second reading of this law, or going against stakeholders, as you said, we are increasing their rights and simply adjusting their legal status in a way to a reality that no one thought of two years or three years ago. I'm talking about COVID.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u367	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u368	Mr. Senator, as you mentioned here, this is the way out. In front of the stakeholders. These rules do not restrict rights in any way. On the contrary, they are responding to expectations. They also, to a large extent, determine, for example, the functioning of dispatchers, which are important in all medical rescues, determine to a greater extent the sense of health safety.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u369	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you, sir. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Bromber: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendments introduced by this law contain a whole range of very favourable solutions for citizens, protect the consumer, protect the debtor, protect the customer. But that's the end of the good changes, because it's just an art. 1 and 2. And once again, we are dealing with a bad, defective bill and a flawed legislative process consisting in bringing to the government the amendments of parliament beyond the matter of the law, which exposes the entire draft law to unconstitutionality. And these are: Art. Three, four, five, six and seven. The substantive content, as we have already said many times, of the amendments made during the second reading in the Parliamentary Committee, does not coincide in any way with the content and the subject matter of the originally proposed law, the changes concern the area of health protection, as we have also discussed. The procedure of 3 readings has been omitted and, moreover, the procedure of 3 readings has been omitted. The right to submit amendments must not be transformed into such a prosthesis, such imitation, into a surrogate of a legislative initiative. Because who, High Izbo, in the Civil Code Amendment Act will be looking for changes to the Act on State Medical Rescue, where the competence requirements of medical rescue workers are lowered? Who will be looking in this Act for amendments to the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID, where certain changes are made regarding the implementation and deadlines for applications, and relations with the National Health Fund? Who will be looking for amendments to the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist, where changes are made to the transitional provisions concerning post-graduate traineeships, examinations or trainings? Who in this law will seek amendments to the Act amending certain laws in order to ensure that during the period of notification of an epidemic or an epidemic of medical personnel? Who in this law will seek amendments to the Law on Higher Education? In this way presented to the High Senate, the law is unacceptable because of its non-constitutionality and non-application of the principles of legislative technique and requires the necessary amendments to be made for its correctness, accuracy, clarity, transparency and transparency in the resolution which I have just made, the resolution of the meeting of the Legislative Commission and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. And all these changes that concern health care should be included in the new draft laws that will be developed by the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health plays a really important role in the pandemic and carries out a huge number of tasks. It is all the more important for the Ministry of Health to be responsible for preparing good, reliable, clear laws which will introduce, as the Minister says, changes in favour of both medical services and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u371	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Alexander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u372	Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! I bow to the minister's eristic abilities. Thank you very much for your praise, it will be harder for me to complain here. But maybe I'll start with something else, from what Senator Czerwinski was talking about. Mr Senator said that there is a principle of fairness that if something is important to citizens, we should not look at whether it is procedurally right. Once again, Senator, you are in deep error. If we're dealing with something like they used to say, extraordinary, you can do that. But that's what ruins the rules, even if they're needed. 'Cause they're needed, nobody's denying it here. It is opening the way to spoil the law also when something is bad for the citizen. Well, today you say it's good for the citizen. Then why do we need all these legislative rules? What's the first, second, third reading? I'll tell you this: what's the Senate for? And you will see, Senator, that before the vote, you will be given some guidelines and you will vote in favour of two changes in which we have managed to improve the fatal records that were precisely due to the lack of respect for legislative technique. And why did that happen? Well, that's because it was done in the head and at the last minute. And you will be the senator in favour tonight. That's one thing. And second of all, this isn't Dirty Harry, this isn't Clint Eastwood, this isn't the Death Wish movie with Charles Bronson. It's not like a good man comes out and, breaking all the rules, does justice or does something good for people. It just doesn't work that way. I am really very happy, Minister, that this submission is here. It's a pity that there's this baby in that barrel of honey that Senator Matecka was talking about and I'm talking about, but this is a very important presentation. I really believe what I said at the committee meeting. I deeply feel that this is very important. Contrary to what you say in different places, we're not a total opposition, we're just talking about rules. You know very well that every time we get something that's important, we say it's important and we vote for it. Lack of Discretion It's really important. Many times in our committee meetings it has been said that there are other countries in the European Union, in this area of ours, common values which relate to this. And I'm really glad that it came out here, and I'm really glad that this is where we join this team and these values. And we agree that there are values. We share these values not only on the occasion of this law, but also on the occasion of all those we have talked about over the past six years. Although it's a pity it's only six years later. I very much regret that only after 6 years of good change, we only have today such an important law, which does not concern taking over the courts, taking over the prosecution, but which brings something really important for citizens. I am absolutely convinced that where you propose, or where this law proposes to grant the victim the right to choose or demand to reduce his/her benefits, to increase the benefit of the other party, to cancel the contract, there will finally be a choice. This is incredibly important. Because it is very often that if the injured party has only a choice of annulment and, so to speak, the reimbursement of mutual benefits cannot benefit from it. Why? Because after some time the change in the subject of this benefit is so far gone that there is nothing to return or this party will get something that is at all worthless. So this is a fundamental change and I bow to the fact that you have taken care of it. Senator Czerwinski asked... I mean, you got the wrong... You were talking about the warranties, and this has nothing to do with this submission at all. But that's a presumption... Well, what does it come from, Senator? After all, there must be some value from which we will say that the imbalance is gross. Here it's set, I'd say, quite low. This is an improbable bow towards the victims. But if we didn't have it, then what? We're supposed to recognize that the imbalance is when there's 10%. ? Well, then we'd be flooded with some completely baseless lawsuit. So that I will defend this presentation again and what has been proposed, because this is very good. Yeah, well, I'm done, 'cause I'm running out of time... And, sorry, it's also important to extend this term from 2 to 3 years, especially since now the ministry is probably not going to like what I'm going to say. For 6 years, the good change in proceedings increased by almost 100%. It's a tragedy, a tragedy. But here are the changes we've been waiting for all these years. And it's a good thing they're here. Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I join those who say you shouldn't join in like this... Once again, we, defending certain principles and how the law is to be created, are put in a very difficult situation. Here, in this case, we must indeed assume that this is for the benefit of the citizens. But we have often been confronted with changes that had nothing to do with the welfare of citizens, and this has also been done in an unconstitutional way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u373	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! First thing. Maybe we should clarify the issue of warranties, guarantees, as well as the right of withdrawal for 14 days when it is concluded outside the premises of the seller or the provider of the service. These are all customer rights, consumer rights. And here we are, as I understand it, dealing with consumer rights. Why do I think And that's for the Minister. That's the law... Please note that the figures you mentioned in connection with this article are less than 10. Why do I believe that the law contained in this provision will still not be applied massly? Because there are other possible solutions, but the other possible ones have some. time limits or other defects of the commodity type. And here this limitation is much weaker. What's it gonna look like? Well, as I said, if an older man goes on a presentation of some articles and under the influence of emotion, created atmosphere, etc. he will purchase an article offered during this presentation, and if he does not admit to a child who will direct him on the right path, the legal path, then they will recommend all the dates and he will do nothing even after coming to the senator's office, because we will not be able to offer him anything. But if it wasn't here... This conjunction is also in the original recipe, it is not changed. Namely, this compulsive situation, abhorrence, inexperience and, coming in now, a lack of sufficient discernment... If these conditions were separated from the condition of value, it would be completely different. You could write it down here. Well, right now, there's a conjunction here, which is "and." Why? In many cases, as I said, these unfortunate pots worth 1 thousand zlotys will be sold for 1 thousand 800 zlotys. This provision will not be applicable, assuming a rigid assessment that twice this is disproportionate or it will be very difficult. Good. You think it's gonna be different. We'll check it out. It's not a question of faith. It's a question of checking in a year, two years from now, no less than two years from now. The term of office, I hope, will last for nearly two years. What's next? [[Voice from the room: We'll see.]] What's next? We'll just run it through the data. We will ask you what the revision of this article results in in practice. Have we even healed the situation? Well, if the law isn't applied so far, it means that something still doesn't work in the article. So it's a matter of checking. Another issue is the amendments, I would call them medical for this bill. Well, the Senate felt God's will here to fix the world. Ladies and gentlemen, the world is starting to fix itself. This is one of the items of today's Senate agenda, or actually 2 points. This is the law, I talked about this at other points, the countries who are guests here, until then there was a single payment for anti-communist opposition activists and those who were oppressed for political reasons, the law, practically not subject to any controversy. There have been minor legislative amendments. I think the Senate will take it unanimously. But the same Senate, a purist who cares so much about procedures, introduces on the occasion of this law, a incomplete legislative path, a senate, without consultation, without a written justification, here is the very content of the draft law on amending the Act on activists of anti-communist opposition and those oppressed for political reasons as well as the Law on Orders and Awards. By bending the law, acting almost identically, there are differences, however, while driving around the procedural gang, you are trying to push through the draft law, for which there are very far-reaching controversies. You're changing your mother's bill, and this is a completely different subject matter. It's a one-off benefit. Now what, dear senate? As the demand is, I say in quotes, as there are clear requests of stakeholders to change these and these articles, you deny it because you are procedural purists, and then you do the same, and you do it on the same day. Why don't you start changing the world, ordering the world apart? And what happens when you vote on these amendments? I'm talking about that bill we're looking at right now. Well, maybe the Seym won't reject them. And then what? Some procedures will be blocked, there will be gaps in others, and there will be not enough people in dispatch. And then what? Will you take on your conscience what can happen then? The procedures have been compromised? Well, then you had to really watch those procedures. And now, in the case of this bill, in spite of your grandmother's anger, will you unfreeze your people's ears? You're doing the wrong thing. You're doing the wrong thing. You guys want to clean up? Beautiful. Well, of course, it'll prevent the government from doing its job, but ultimately the victims. It may not be the victims, but the citizens will be threatened by the non-implementation of the provisions of this amendment, which we are talking about. Is that it? With the procedures in place, we will achieve this, not other results. Think about it again. I'm saying this by referring to what you two were looking into in this room 2 or 3 hours ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u375	Thank you, Senator. The discussion is closed. Oh, well, let me inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators Gromko and the Swedes have submitted their speeches to the minutes. And now I'm closing the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions. The draft is contained in print No 523 and the committee's report In print No 523 S. I now ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mątkow, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to report on the meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the draft law amending the Law The committees at their joint meeting on 18 November 2021 considered, at first reading, the draft law submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the Senate to adopt a uniform bill and a draft resolution on the submission of the draft law to the Sejm. The recommended solution is to supplement the article. 217c of the Penal Code for a provision whereby, in the event that a temporary arrest has an established or designated defender, the authority at whose disposal he is temporarily arrested shall, at the request of that defender, issue an order of unlimited consent for repeated use by the temporarily arrested person on a telephone camera in order to maintain contact with the defender and forward it immediately to the director of the detention facility in which he is temporarily arrested. The consent shall be effective pending the final termination of the proceedings, including in the event of a change in the course of the proceedings of the authority at whose disposal he is temporarily arrested, or of the penal unit in which the provisional arrest is carried out. Such consent may be revoked by the authority at whose disposal he is temporarily arrested, in the event of reasonable fear that the use by the temporarily arrested person on a telephone system may be used to unduly impede criminal proceedings or to commit a criminal offence, in particular instigation of criminal offences. In addition, it is proposed that, once the authority at whose disposal is temporarily arrested, the notice of termination of the defence relationship, that authority be required to issue an order to revoke the aforementioned order. In short, this provision introduces the possibility of multiple use by a temporarily arrested phone to communicate with its defender. So far, it's limited... I don't remember exactly, but it's definitely... One or two phone calls were possible, and now it will be an unlimited quantity, in accordance, of course, with the rules in force in a given prison. The Commission proposes that the Senate adopt this draft law and a draft resolution. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u377	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Robert Mammothov to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? [[Voice from the room: There is no minister.]] [[Mr. Minister is on his way.]] Okay, well, then I'm gonna announce a par-minute technical recess, and I'm gonna need a call from the minister... [[Mr. Marshal, when it comes to a break, if we had a time frame...]] Until the Minister arrives, a minute's break... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: But it's coming.]] [[Oh, he's coming, isn't he? Do we have that information?]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] Hello, Minister Marcin Warchoł, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. Minister, does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u378	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you so much for this project. It is the solution to the reform of the implementing criminal code that we have recently prepared and which will shortly be submitted to the Council of Ministers, which is why it is part of the discussion on both the rights of the detained, the inmates and the security rules in prisons. And here I'm going to focus on this kind of confrontation of these two values, because that's what this is all about. On the one hand, of course, we have the rights of persons temporarily arrested, the right to defend themselves, but on the other hand we have the security of the prison and the functionality of the justice system. That's why I'm telling you right away that it's an article. 217c is covered by our major reform together with many references to this provision. But in order not to put an end to this discussion, because I believe that the rule is worth taking care of it, I would like to draw attention, Dear Members, to 2 issues. First of all, the High Senate proposes an unlimited consent to the repeated use by the temporarily arrested person of a telephone camera in contact with his lawyer, adding the provision to the existing one, according to which the criminal investigation body, which is the prosecutor, consents to the defendant's communication with the defender, may refuse such consent where there is a risk of obstruction of criminal proceedings or the risk of committing a crime. However, the agreement proposed by the Senate is to be multiple and unlimited. It means the final termination of criminal proceedings, as we read. That would mean that when the case goes to court, the court will be deprived of verification. There's not gonna be another defense attorney's motion for consent, but that attorney's consent will be valid until the trial is over. Dear Members, looking at the situation in prisons, it must be said that this is, above all, ruining the possibility of rational use of telephones. I will give as an example Warsaw Białołęka, which has 32 telephone cameras and a capacity of 1 thousand 767 prisoners, including 573 arrested. And now let's help ourselves to this situation through multiple unlimited consent for an example of an inmate who will want to use the phone 20 times a day. The D.A. has no way of limiting it. The case goes to court, the court is bound by the prosecutor's decision. Yes, he will be able to consider this right from the outset, but please note that even today, when the case is, for example. with a temporary arrest is brought to court, the court has an obligation of its own motion, in accordance with the Article. 344 consider whether this is justified or not. What's wrong is that every authority at each stage of the proceedings, whether it's a prosecutor in pre-trial, court in court, or court in enforcement, separately verify the legitimacy of the client's communication. A defense attorney? That's how it is today. And this situation is perfectly rational. Other are the objectives of the preparatory procedure, someone else responsible for them. The prosecutor shall be responsible for the performance of his Other are the objectives of the judicial proceedings, the court is responsible for this and other executives, where the court is also competent to supervise the enforcement proceedings. The situation is clear, the objectives are different, the other leading authorities are different. However, this proposal assumes that the prosecutor will impose on his colleagues, judges in court and in the executive court these repeated, unlimited contacts, and they will have to adapt to it. We have checked, Dear Sirs, how it is in other countries. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 explicitly emphasises that Member States are introducing solutions concerning the duration, frequency and manner of communication with a lawyer by inmates. Member States shall specify in their internal systems the duration, frequency and manner of communication. And our current solutions, the ones that are, are doing it perfectly. However, the proposal does not specify the duration or frequency. It introduces a blank consent forever, no matter what happens. And as for the person involved in the organized crime group, the violent criminal who has already tried to communicate with the outside world, with his fellow criminals? In addition, we checked other laws, German laws for example. We read there that the temporarily arrested may use telephones in urgent situations, unless this affects order and security and does not constitute organisational difficulties. In other words, temporarily arrested in Germany can only talk to lawyers by telephone if the case cannot be handled in any other way. This is Germany's last resort to a phone incarcerated to its attorney. In France, by way of exception, a lawyer may be temporarily arrested. The defendant may contact his lawyer only after obtaining permission. These are situations, as you can see, extraordinarily, strictly provided for in the legislation as exceptions to a rule that he is, however, in a prison. He's not in a sanatorium or a hotel. This is a penitentiary, an investigator's arrest. In the preparatory proceedings, I'll remind you, there's a confidentiality principle, an inquisition principle for the good of the investigation. In addition, I will finally point out that the current solutions are very warranty. Namely, the provisions provide that applications for contact with an inmate are immediately recognised and that there is no abuse in this regard. We haven't seen any abuse. Nor do such examples follow from the proposal submitted by the Senate. I therefore ask you to take our comments into account and to withdraw from this idea. We will come back to this on the occasion when we refer to Parliament a draft amendment to the implementing criminal code, and globally also on this subject. We are, of course, ready for discussion in order to ensure a balance between the security of the plant, the need for security and the rights of defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u379	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Mammytov and Senator Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u380	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a request for you, Minister. It would make it much easier for us to cooperate if a representative of the Ministry were to attend meetings of the Human Rights Committee, especially at meetings where petitions are being discussed. Today we probably wouldn't be talking if a representative of the Ministry of Justice were in session and presented what you just said. And here we are, so to speak... We've gone our separate ways. I can take your arguments, I just think it's a little late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u381	Mr. Senator, I humbly accept this remark and I promise to introduce a policy of bringing the representatives of the Ministry to committee meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u382	Thank you very much. Senator Michael Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u383	Minister, it was very interesting to hear the final sentences of your statement indicating that there is an alternative on the side of the ministry as to the project we are talking about at the moment. Would you like to give us a brief overview of what this is all about? Is this going to be a French pattern or another, which is very restrictive, or is it going to be indirect? It would be very interesting to hear in a nutshell what this alternative, less threatening the integrity of the investigation and the interests of the justice system would depend on than, say, what we are talking about right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u384	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u385	Thank you very much. The person concerned will be able to address a written request to the judge, send a list of correspondents he wishes to contact, names, telephone numbers to the judge. In the permit, the authority will indicate the identity, the telephone numbers of the recipients, because today's technique allows for such a situation that the telephone number is given and this number is redirected to the persons for whom the embedded does not necessarily declare that he will be confiding with them. They could also be his accomplices in crime. We have seen numerous cases of phone abuse in prisons and there are investigations on this issue. So this permit will contain an exact indication of the list of correspondents, names, phone numbers. By way of exceptions, they will be able to communicate with social calls. The new wording assumes that these discussions will be subject to review, as is the case in many other legal systems. The solutions adopted will strike a balance between the need to ensure security, so that threats are not directed outside detention, so that information is not transferred outside or received, e.g. instructions on how to testify, how to explain, how to conduct a line of defense... There are a lot of potential risk fields here when it comes to the flow of information with the outside world. After listening to the positions of the Prison Service and experts, we have prepared a whole package of solutions to prevent attempts, e.g. providing information, contacting or threatening outsiders, witnesses who are to testify, or instruct co-complainants on how to conduct their defence. I don't want to talk about it much right now. These solutions will certainly be discussed widely in the Council of Ministers, in the Seym, in the Senate. We'll get back to them. A solution which is not related to the whole code and abstracts from what is in other countries, at this stage proposes to be left to be further explored.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u386	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u387	Mr. Marshal! Dear colleagues! Minister! Well, I have to start where you left off with Senator Mammoths. The Ministry of Justice has ignored the Human Rights Commission for over two years. This isn't the only case where you didn't come to the committee. The state has put in place a system of non-compliance at the meetings of our committee. I am prepared to send the Minister information on how many times you haven't been there, when we had very important things to consider. You know, Minister, what's funny about all this? That the majority in this committee are the Senators of Law and Justice. All you had to do was come and take a stand. You didn't even want to write... And I want to tell you once again that you're ignoring your party colleagues more than we are, because there's more of them. That's one thing. [[But this...]] And that's one thing. Secondly, I have repeatedly argued with this argument... And then when you're on your way, you say, in Germany it's like this, in France it's like this. If you hadn't come over and said that you and that you were going to tell me what the system looked like... Because removing such individual things, completely removed from the entire system, is always untrue, always untrue. You used this kind of dial once, saying that the National Court of Justice in Spain is also politically filled... Is it a constitutional tribunal? I don't remember, but we talked about it. Except there's a king out there who appoints him. Then enter the monarchy and then compare. And if you're telling the Minister that it's hard to call in Germany and France, then please come in here with the regulations and show us what access is there to the lawyer, what are the procedural guarantees, who makes the decisions. And bring in the judge of inquiry as it is in France. What do you want to compare? What kind of comparison is that? It's basically a fake. We talked about it on the committee. I mean, you can take that decision back. We've been told that. I can't remember who said that anymore. After all, you have the opportunity to eavesdrop on these conversations and find out if anyone's crossing the law at which point someone's dating someone. It's the simplest thing. This is your phone. The minister was talking about who he was gonna call. From your phone? We've been explained. We had this conversation. But the number's dialing an officer from your phone. So, what, he's gonna call the mob? Well, Minister... I mean, it's not like it's a permit for someone to have their own phone and call from that phone. Marshal Severinski asked a very accurate question. Then why don't you characterize what you want to introduce in return? I didn't hear the answer. What's it gonna look like? I don't understand. I really don't understand. Or we're wasting our time here. Just because you didn't want to come to one of the committee's dozens of meetings and express your position... You don't come and 80% we must repeat these meetings of the committee. We're not experts, we don't have all the tools. What's going on? Every time we have any doubts, we have to write to you, then it'll be two months, and we have to call the next committee meeting. You're wasting your time with your friends who might be doing something else. Minister, I really can't agree with your argument that you're doing something and that there might be something. There's nothing concrete here. But I didn't ask the question. If the Minister had come It's a pity it's only here, not to the committee. And he said, "We have such, such, and such a solution, I could withdraw." However, I believe that if this is not the case, it is our committee, with our sensitivity and our experience, i.e. people who have had experience with the justice system from different sides of the barricade and in different times, heavier, lighter... I don't find any reason to throw our job away for a couple of months. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u388	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Voice from the room: Now the Minister will be...]] Minister... Please, I'll just read the formula. For the record, the Senators Gromko and the Swedish have made their speeches in the debate for the minutes. The discussion is closed. And I would also ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u389	High Senate, print number UD282 is such a number. It is currently at the stage of inter-ministerial arrangements. The project is on the RCL website, is public, is addressed to it, will soon be discussed in the Council of Ministers and in the Sejm. Next month, right after Christmas, I'm sure we'll meet here and discuss it. And when it comes to being present at committee meetings, I'm going to say that I'm here today as a substitute for my colleagues, and I got this project, just as the prosecutor often gets a case just before the trial, the counselor is very aware of it, and I came here and defend him just... I mean defend the ministry's position by criticizing your project, so that... As far as the policy of presence at committee meetings is concerned, as I have already promised Senator Mammothov, I will intervene here among my fellow vice-ministers so that we can establish rules for our participation in these meetings. I promise I'll do it right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u390	Thank you very much. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law I would like to remind you that the draft was submitted by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and is included in print No. 490 and the committee's report In print No 490 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mątkow, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to be the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the draft law amending the electoral code. The committees at their joint meeting on 18 November 2021 considered, at first reading, the draft law submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the Senate to adopt a uniform draft law and a draft resolution on the submission of the draft to the Sejm. Project purpose. The aim of the project is to grant partially inactive persons voting rights in elections to the European Parliament. He is the prostrate of the petition to the Senate on this matter. Until now, people who are incapacitated are deprived of active and passive electoral rights in general elections to public authorities. The bill follows the request made by the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights to the Senate on 16 June 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, this project gives people who are partially incapacitated the right to vote in elections to the European Parliament. The rules of law in Poland today are such that in the general election, i.e. in the presidential election, to the Sejm, to the Senate, to the city presidents, in the local elections, people who are not entitled to vote. And in the Constitution, it's all I just said... Oh, and there is also a ban on the choice of Europarliament in legislation. As far as the Constitution of the Republic of Poland is concerned, it prohibits them from running, as I said, in the general elections, to the Polish parliament, to the President, in the local elections, but does not say anything about the elections to the Europarliament. People who are partially incapacitated in Europe have this right to vote and the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights has petitioned the Human Rights Committee and the Legislative Commission. At its meeting, the committees decided to issue this petition, and this is the result of the proposed bill and the draft resolution proposed by the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u392	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Robert Mammothov to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator. We have a senate representative of the National Election Office, Mr. Grzegorz Gąsior. Do you wish to speak? [[Expert in Legal Team and Election Organization at Grzegorz Gąsior National Election Office: Good morning. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Commission commented on this at the stage of the committee's work, so thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may report from a place of no more than a minute's duration to the representative of the National Election Office present at the meeting. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. If you want, you can answer from there, but you can answer from the speaker. It's up to you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u393	We're gonna let the minister move us. [[Right.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A simple question in view of the fact that there will be a separation between the issue of partial incapacity and the issue of total incapacity. Would it be possible, in your opinion, to vote on some of the persons who have been disbarred? They must for the validity of their activities Not the day-to-day ones, but the more important ones. To have the probation officer's confirmation. That's the first line. And two: how is this resolved in other countries of the European Union? Are concepts such as partial incapacity and total incapacity at all functioning, or is there only one incapacity?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The State Election Commission, as the authority competent to hold the elections during the work of the Senate Committee, referred to the law and stated that it was not speaking on political matters because of the powers it had. The issue of electoral law is undoubtedly a political issue here. The State Election Commission has of course pointed out several technical problems which may arise from the law. Nevertheless, I don't see the problem here that these people... Of course, I do not judge the character of a person or the reason why a person has been incapacitated because this remains outside the competence of the electoral authorities. I can only address organizational issues here. The Act provides for the amendment of the article. 21 of the electoral code. Currently, municipalities only receive information that the person concerned is incapacitated, without knowing whether it is total incapacity, or whether it is partial incapacity. So, of course, in this respect, the law would have to be amended and the regulation of the Minister of Justice would have to be amended, which regulates the transfer of information by the courts to municipalities, among others. about persons not entitled to be admitted Because municipalities also receive information about those who are deprived of public rights. So, as far as technical issues are concerned, I do not see such a problem, and when it comes to referring to substantive issues, as I said, the nature of the State Election Commission does not allow us to speak on these issues. Just one more thing, Senator. Indeed, in most countries, the law allows people who are partially incapacitated to vote, it allows them to take part in elections and vote. There are also solutions which consist in the fact that the issuing authority decides that the person concerned is so aware that he or she can take part in the vote. And these solutions are different. However, in most countries, the law allows people who are partially disenfranchised to vote. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u395	Thank you. The senator still wants to ask. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u396	Yeah, yeah. I understand this novel not as... but also, of course... She is not involved in the dispute concerning Polish citizens voting in the elections to the European Parliament, although also. I believe that there may be more problems with citizens of other countries who want to vote in the elections to the European Parliament in Poland. The principle is that there must be the same rights in Poland as in another country. That's why I'm asking about the institution itself. Because part concepts, total concepts are concepts of our law. Or are you just able to figure it out? Because there are, as I remember, 2 lists, 2 registers: for Polish citizens and for citizens of the European Union. Is there any way you're getting information from this European census about partial impropriety?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u397	Currently, the State Election Commission receives information from municipalities. The municipalities shall be informed by the courts of their incapacity. And as I mentioned earlier, in this information it is not advisable whether it is partial or total incapacity. The law provides for a change in this respect. The authorities of the municipalities which are now receiving such notices are not competent to analyse the extent of the incapacity. If this law entered into force and amended the rules, it remains outside the competence of the municipalities which keep the electoral register, as well as outside the competence of the State Election Commission. So that this is a matter beyond the competence of the State Election Commission. If the legislator introduces such a provision, the problem will, of course, be technically resolved and this electoral register will be kept in such a way as to take into account, in the case of only elections to the European Parliament, persons who have been disbarred in part and, of course, will still not be included in the register of persons who have been disenfranchised entirely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u398	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Michał Seweryński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u399	Sir, as an expert on the State Election Commission, could you possibly point out any arguments in favour of maintaining this legal status, which is currently in Poland, which is not to give voting rights to persons with partial incapacity?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u400	Senator, as I said at the beginning, I am absolutely not competent to go beyond the scope of the opinion of the State Election Commission. The State Election Commission, in connection with the Senate committee's question, has made it clear that issues relating to the possession of active electoral rights in this case are issues where the committee simply does not express itself. Of course, it will do so from the technical point of view, if such provisions are introduced, but it is not competent to express itself in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u401	Thank you very much. Does anyone else in the senators have a question? No. [[Expert in Legal Team and Election Organization at Grzegorz Gąsior National Election Office: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Alexander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u402	Mr. Marshal, it's a special honor to perform in front of your marshal twice. Thank you very much. I must return to the minister's statement, who is no longer with us. The minister said, "I'm in charge, a little bit like the prosecutor." And it is indeed the case in the prosecution's office, sometimes someone is conducting proceedings, but because of some procedural economics, they are replaced from time to time by another prosecutor. I believe that I am firmly convinced that it cannot be so as to come in replacement to present such important laws, a law which is not addressed to the individual, just like criminal proceedings, but, as it is said, it is erga omnes. That's between all of them. [[Talking in the O.R.]] If I could ask Marshal Borusewicz... Mr. Marshal... [[Mr. Marshal, don't disturb me.]] Thank you very much. And I can't accept that reasoning. Once again, I would really like to see the minister who is prepared for this conversation with us, and I would be able, as I have done many times, to accept arguments that would prevail against a certain idea. I'm going to go back to what we're talking about right now, the electoral code, very briefly. The petition went much further, yes, the petition went much further. We in our committee have limited it in two dimensions. As far as the first dimension is concerned, we have limited it in such a way that only partially incapacitated, as Senator Mammoth said, they will have the opportunity. As, once again, I stress this in most European countries - voting in the elections to the Europarliament. Why only in this election? Well, again, even if we made that decision... We cannot take it because it is limited by the constitution. Of course, the question that you asked Senator Czerwinski is correct, if we are not creating two-speed voters, so I would call it. I'm sure you're right, Senator, there's something in it. With the fact that I will insist here and argue that, however, it is better to join European solutions in this narrow way, to see how this will work. If it works, then... Of course, I know that changing the constitution is very difficult, but maybe one day we'll come to that, too. And I think that's a certain value. And the fear that this distinction will have to be made between the disenfranchised, partially and completely, to use the information that Senator Czerwiński was talking about... This information, we wrote it down in the project, she's coming from the courthouse. I think we should try to do that. If it doesn't work, we can always go back, but if it works, we can expand it and try to change the constitution in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u403	Is Senator Czerwiński up for discussion? Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! However, I would like to express myself more precisely, to say what I think this is about. Well, first of all, this resolution in my opinion is incomplete, because we have to remember two things. In the elections to the European Parliament, in terms of active law, we have 2 categories of people: Poles, Polish citizens who vote in Poland I am no longer talking about those who vote outside the borders, because this may be the case, in theory they can vote, having dual citizenship, for example, as candidates. France or Germany And the second, citizens of the European Union, citizens of European Union countries who are not Poles, but who have the right to vote in elections in Poland. Unless there is no transitional provision in the case of elections in Poland... Please note: how court decisions on total or partial incapacity came to the municipalities 'Cause they're the ones who decide to put it in the register. They did not, as I understand it, state whether the persons concerned are partially or completely incapacitated, only that they are incapacitated. So it would be necessary to supplement the transitional provisions with all those who are incarcerated to determine whether they are partially or totally incarcerated, and so that those who are partially incapacitated have the rights, that is to say, acquired in a sense the rights that we give them. But there is another issue in the case of foreigners who are to vote in Poland. Please note that it is difficult to give foreigners such rights that they do not have in their own country. And there are, as I understand it, countries in which part of the electoral rights to the European Parliament are not allowed to be incapacitated. And I'm sure there's one where you get it. And how is that included in our legal system now? There must also be appropriate certificates, and it must also be entered somewhere, which is in the register, I understand, in part B of the register. In my opinion, in that case, this bill is, first, lame, second, it can give birth going on... it can have a second bottom. Those kind of inaccuracies or threats... In general, the incapacitated completely needs a guardian, and the incapacitated partially I'm a parole officer. And this probation officer confirms his legal activities, such as, well, not from everyday life. And if so, what about the election act? Do you want him confirmed or not? It's not so obvious to me. I do not know, perhaps it is worth to start a discussion on this subject. I think that changes to the constitution here are unlikely to happen and we will not be digging into it, but all aspects must be taken into account, in particular, as I said, those technical and those concerning citizens who would acquire these rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u405	Thank you. Senator Aleksander Pociej, second appearance, five minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u406	Mr. Senator, in a conciliatory spirit, I will follow the Minister's lead, who has told us how Germany and the French solve this. And if there's any problems... The senator was talking about what it would be like if a foreigner came to us and he had to vote if we were to give him these... We'll see how it is in France, see how it is in Germany, how they solved it. I'm following the Minister's lead. And we're gonna solve it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u407	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Mammoth.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u408	I briefly, but I would like to draw the attention of a colleague of Senator Czerwiński to the fact that the decisions on incapacity are taken by the court and he then decides whether such incapacity is partial or fully. And if it's partial, it says that a person has the right to vote for the European Parliament. That's it. And at the time of the judgment, there's a notice from the municipality. Simple business, technical business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u409	Thank you very much. I see that a representative of the National Election Office would like to speak. I'm gonna give you the floor, but I'm gonna have to give you the formula. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Please take the floor of a representative of the National Election Office.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u410	Thank you very much. I would just like to add that, of course, the question of sending notices that a person is partially or completely incapacitated in relation to those persons who at the moment are not included in the electoral register because of the incapacity... The State Election Commission pointed out that it would simply be necessary for the courts to send this information again, indicating whether it was partial or complete incapacity. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the regulation which regulates the provision of such information provides for a two-track transmission of such information: once on an ongoing basis, i.e. if the person concerned is incapacitated, such a decision shall be transmitted to the municipality; and for the second time Before the elections, after the election, information on all those deprived of active electoral rights, deprived of public rights or disenfranchised persons shall be sent once more. And just in addition to the answer to the question asked by the senator... the regulation on the keeping of the electoral register provides for the transmission of information between Member States about persons who have received a notice of deprivation of election or a notice of deprivation of right on the basis of the legislation of the relevant Member State of the European Union. So at the moment, for European Union citizens who are not Polish citizens, of course in the case of elections to the European Parliament, such notices are also transmitted. And in such a notification it is indicated whether the person concerned has the right to be elected to the European Parliament in the country concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u411	Thank you very much. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the death of Father Augustine Strzybny. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski and is included in print No 540, and the report is in print No 540 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I have the honour to present a draft resolution which was adopted at the meeting of the Legislative Commission and is included in print No 540 S. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 100th anniversary of the death of priest Augustine Strzybny. Father Augustine Strzybny was murdered by a German militia on 31 October 1921 in Modzurow near Raciborz. Augustine Strzybny was born in a poor and deeply religious family on 1 May 1876 in Janowice (now Cyprus) near Raciborz. He went to elementary school there, then to middle school in Raciborz and Bytom. After obtaining a certificate of maturity in 1897, he studied theology at the University of Wrocław. On 22 June 1901, he received priestly ordination. In the years 1901-1903 he was a vicar in the parish of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross in Opole. In 1903, he was appointed Prefect of the Theological Conventure in Wrocław. In the second half of 1906 he became a parish administrator in Ściborzyce Małych and in November 1906 a parish priest in Modzurow (the present Kozielski district). He also served as dean of the Lana decanate. Priest Augustine Strzybny was a man of deep piety, a zealous priest and a great worshiper of the Eucharist. He founded several sororities and religious associations in the Modzury parish. He published catechism in Polish and German. During his studies he belonged to the Polish Circle, whose activity was aimed at raising the knowledge of Polish language among priests. He was openly in favour of Poland In Polish he preached sermons and catechesis, celebrated services, taught religion and singing. He secretly blessed the Silesian insurgents in the church. He defended the faith of fathers and Polish culture, sustained national consciousness. He believed that the integration of Catholic Silesia into Poland would be beneficial for the future of the Church. He didn't participate directly in political life, he didn't lead political aggression, he eased antagonism, but he didn't hide his pro-Polish attitude. After the plebiscite held on 20 March 1921 and the Third Silesian Modzury Uprising, it remained on the German side of the border. Father Augustine Strzybny, despite the repression, increased Germanization and lawlessness of German militias, did not leave his parish; other priests from the decanate had to do so, openly in favour of Poland. He opposed the state terror, called for reconciliation in times of political conflict, and for these reasons he was harassed by the German authorities in many ways: by revision, plundering the rectory, horse confiscation, abduction, beating and arrest. Father Augustine Strzybny was shot and then massacred with crowbars and knives on the steps of the sacristy of the church in Modzurow during the attack of unknown German militants on the evening of 31 October 1921. Let the evidence of the brutality of the secretive murder show that after giving about 10 shots to the back, the killer's head and heart pierced the victim's neck, cheeks and tongue. The body of the priest who was shot was found between the church and the rectory after 8:00 p.m. Since the beginning, the death of Father Augustine Strzybny has been regarded as a manifestation of fanatical hatred for Poles. Father Karol Gade of the nearby Maciowakrza, burying a murdered friend from Modzurów, summarized this event in the parish chronicle of his parish: neither the prosecutor's office nor the interallied commission cares about the capture of murderers, and this is political murder. And indeed, the inspirers and perpetrators of the crime were neither detected nor captured. The German authorities did not ask for this. The records in the parish chronicles of the nearby parishes and in the Archdiocese Archives in Wrocław are unambiguous: The murder of priest Augustine Strzybny was carried out by members of the German Selbstschutz. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to Father Augustine Strzybny on the 100th anniversary of his martyrdom The priest who gave his life for the Polish cause, defending the national identity of the Silesian people, combining the deep Catholic faith with the love of Polishness. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. This is the text of the proposed resolution. Now maybe a little bit about the committee meeting. There was no more discussion about this text. The committee held its meeting on 18 November 2021. In the vote, the members of the committee voted 16 votes in favour, no one voted against, three senators abstained In favour of presenting this project to the High House. Now maybe briefly as an applicant I'll tell you why this resolution. Someone will say, after all, priests, even those murdered, even those beastly murdered, are a little bit in our history. This resolution and this form are of exceptional importance. I will try to quote a short passage, because it is late time, from the position by priest Józef Krzeptowski, who was already dead, unfortunately for several dozen years parish priest in Modzurow, of course in the years after World War II. In conclusion in a sense of this biography, Fr. Augustine Strzybny wrote this. By paying tribute to Father Augustine Strzybny by this work, I do so also for other priests in Silesia who suffered for Christ and for the Polish cause. The person of the Modzurski priest makes many parallels with the priest Jerzy Popieluszko. And one and the other were victims of political murder, because they were both opponents of state terror and called for reconciliation in times marked by conflicts. To take account of his great priestly formation and martyrdom, he should, in my opinion, be counted among the blessed. Rather, we should address not faith-related issues, but more social and political issues. Why Fr. Augustine Strzybny was a priestly authority? He was a dean, which means he was chosen in a way by parish priests around the parish. Let us remember that the composition was more or less such that one in five presented Polish views, and four in five were those who presented pro-German views. The fact that he was defending Polishness... This is what not only those who were his friends are talking about, as was the one quoted here from Maciowarza, but also those who observed it with a little more distance and had the opposite views. He declared his views, not with an pulpit, but with his conduct, e.g. He promoted Polish language through catechesis, through learning this language, through liturgical singing, etc. But it's still not enough. Then why? The fact that he was murdered in a cruel way and that this murder didn't have an ending in the form of catching the guilty and punishing them might not be enough. Well, Fr. Augustine Strzybny was a kind of exemplification, an example of such people, such clergymen, to whom we owe the return of a large part Not in the area, but in the economical region or Silesia Opole to Macierza. We made a resolution here and about the Year of Silesian Uprisings, and about individual uprisings on the 100th anniversary... We walk like the historical process, only 100 years later. We must also mention those who, like Fr. The strigoi on one hand were in a sense a reason for the fact that yes and no different this story took place in Silesia Opole, i.e. in Upper Silesia and then separated Opolskie Silesia, and on the other hand for historical truth... We're talking about an event that happened after the third uprising... First there was a plebiscite, then there was a third Silesian uprising. October 1921 is the final division of Silesia by the League of Nations, and then the executive body was October 12th and the German part and the Polish part. And what are we watching? In the Polish part it simply reveals itself, I would call it, a new nationality, the building of administrative structures begins. What's in the German part? Well, unfortunately, there's a retaliation. This is a very important issue, a question in a sense of lack of symmetry, this positive symmetry. There is a retaliation on Poles. About 70,000 Polish citizens move to the then Katowice voivodship to escape repression. Catholic priests, including death, are also subjected to repression. Nearly half of them escape these repressions, move to Poland and begin there in a sense not a new life, but his pastoral work again. They're forced to do it. And those who didn't escape are just being harassed and, in extreme cases, killed. It happens in a way under a curatela, under a favorable eye, I say it with all responsibility. The German State. The failure to capture the perpetrators, the failure to bring the case to an end, to explain this murder, is unfortunately the fault of the German state. And then what does that do? One of the people who was bragging She was just bragging. We don't have any proof that it was that person. He's one of the founding members of the NSDAP. Then he participates in several more actions, let's call it, in the militias of the criminal nature, and at the very end in the assassination in France and there he is sentenced and executed. This has the effect of not having justice. And then some of these people. - I'm talking about German citizens. - He's in World War II. In one of the sources I used, i.e. Martyrology of the Clergy of Silesia Opole in the years of the Silesian Uprising and the Second World War Fr. Professor Andrzej Hanich, there are dozens of pages about Silesian Uprisings, and there are 5 times more about World War II. Unpunished in the time of such behavior, such brutal murder, makes murder a common thing. Not only this, of course, but also this. During World War II, priests who suffered, incidentally, not only Polish, but mostly Polish, were several times more from the German occupation. And now the argument, in my opinion, is why, as an exemplification of a certain group, a group of clergymen, it is worth it and we should celebrate Fr. Just on the 100th anniversary of his martyrdom. Since Poland's regaining independence was a process, Poland had to form its borders. We may not realize it immediately, that after World War I, after regaining independence, Poland was composed of very different lands. The part did not come back, depending on when the part of the pre-war and pre-departmental Republic was losing contact with the matrix. They're talking about regaining independence after 123 years of independence. But this is not entirely true, because it was the land of Upper Silesia that was joined to Poland, that they voted, in 3 armed breaks, for joining the Polish state, which was reborn not after 123 years, and after 574 years. So much continued bond between the Polish element, the Polish nation using Polish language, emotional, cultural language, let's say: the national one with the Polish matrix. As soon as it was possible to join Poland, this possibility was used. In the Opole region, this part of Upper Silesia connected to the reborn Republic, there was no January and November uprising, there were no such traditions of independence. So what really decided that after a period of nearly 600 years, the nation was armed to fight to join a country that was unknown, but it was reborn that it had kept in touch with a country that didn't exist on the map, that it had really maintained national communication? In a large part, that was the attitude of the clergy. Everyone admits, even reluctant to the Church, that the parish priest at that time in Silesia was a distinction Not only religious, but also cultural, national. Depending on how he acted, the residents of this parish went faster or slower, and sometimes they did not leave Poland at all. That was the role of the clergy back then. And in view of this role, Father Strzybny, with such a life story, with such an attitude, with such a death, is worthy to honor him in the Senate resolution. As an example of the entire group of priests of that time, the clergy. It was thanks to him and his like, of course, that over the centuries, it was preserved, despite Germanization, the communication of this part of the Polish nation, thanks to it we regained the industrialized part of Upper Silesia... [[Timer signal]] ...thanks to him and to him similar Poland could grow faster in the interwar period, thanks to this Upper Silesia. That's what Father Strzybny, Father Augustine Strzybny... well, I won't say that such a character of the Senate should honor, as I said, as an example character. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u413	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and at the same time to the applicant. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Mr. Senator, I'd like you to come back to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u414	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, thanking you for this initiative, I would just like to ask you to tell me if you have an orientation, as has so far been celebrated by Father Strzybny, the hero of the resolution. Does it have any streets, or is it more widely known in the country? Because I think, in the context of the Silesian case, this is a character that is most worthy of being disseminated across the country, not just that it is a hero, let's call it a regional one. If you'd like to say two more words about this...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u415	Mr. Marshal, may I? As the senator said, indeed, knowledge of this character is regional in nature. For a long time there were Modzurov, in this parish organized celebrations on the anniversary of death and surroundings, whether it be scouts or even uniformed services, representatives of the administration participated in them. This year there have already been more celebrations due to the round anniversary of the 100th anniversary. There were representatives of the regional administration of both Opole and Silesian voivodship. This town is lying, I'd call it, on the border. This is a border town. Her administrative dependence and nationality have changed. Now also lies on the border of 2 voivodships, practically right next to the border of voivodships, between voivodships. The priest is remembered, is, I would call it, in the pantheon of Silesians who deserved to regain full independence by Silesia Opole. You know, World War II, but in part just after World War I, in years... This trial in Opolskie Silesia lasted five years. I am talking about Silesia Opole, because part of the plebiscite area enters the borders of the present Opole region, and part of it is within the Silesian voivodeship. This lasted from 1918 to 1922. At that time there was an invasion of troops and only the Polish state took these lands into full possession. We have talked about their meanings here many times. I'm saying that knowing this character is rather regional, but it's important that we know this kind of character as an example, such an exemplar of a certain category, of a certain set of people. The point is that we understand historical processes. Because it is only after realizing what the period has been since Górny Śląsk was removed from the Polish country, until the regaining independence by this part, that it is connected to Poland, that makes us realize how unique this process was. Nearly 600 years of racketeering, and it ended in failure. Regionally, he's famous, but I haven't heard of his street. And from this pantheon, I would call it, Silesians, another priest, Fr. Charles Koziołek... I happen to live on Karol Koziołka Street, so I know his resume. There are even settlements in the Opole Voivodeship. I do not know how it is in Silesian Voivodeship. Where the whole quarters of the streets are called the names of Silesian activists. And they were often priests. Fr. The strigoi is a little forgotten, I'm aware of that. His martyrdom adds a certain aspect to this matter. Because I say: then the population spoke mainly Polish in this area and the priest could either spoil it and try to contribute directly to Germanization, or keep the status quo. That's the first line. The second is that Catholics back then had respect for priests. No local would do that. Must have been somebody who came by. It's just, it was. Therefore, priests who were attacked during this period were attacked for Polishness. Some taboos have also been broken, which means not raising your hand to a clergyman, in this area, in this area. I say, Fr. I think it's the strigoi most... There were dozens or several priests who died. Apart from the harassment, I'd call it ordinary. But this death was just the most... Spectacular is the wrong word. That's the best word for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u416	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Messages. You're welcome, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u417	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Four communications on committee meetings. The joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of the applications submitted at the Thirty-fourth Senate meeting will be held today, 15 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 176/179. Committee on Infrastructure, Committee on National Economy and Innovation 15 minutes after the announcement of the break, room 176/179. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of the applications submitted at the Thirty-fourth Senate meeting will take place today, 15 minutes after the adjournment in room 182 is announced. The joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of the applications submitted at the Thirty-fourth Senate meeting will be held today, 5 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 176. And one last announcement. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of applications submitted at the Thirty-fourth Senate meeting will also take place today, 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 217. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-senat-34-2.u418	Thank you very much. I'm calling for a recess by 4:00 tomorrow. Tomorrow at 4:00 p.m. vote, 3:45 p.m. senior convention. Thank you very much. Have a good night. [[Adjournment at 21 minutes 21]]
