ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to Energy, Climate and State Assets together with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - at 3 p.m. 9, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 10.30, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Public Finance - hour. 11, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 11, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 11, - Economy and Development - h.m. 11.30, - Health-- hour. 12.30, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 13, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Public Finance - hour. 14, - Social and Family Policy together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - at 10 p.m. 15, - to State Control together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs - at 3 p.m. 16, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 16, - Health-- hour. 17, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 18, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 18, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 18, - to Energy, Climate and State Assets - hour. 20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Before we proceed with the examination of paragraph 33, I would like to ask Mr Grzegorz Braun, who has made a formal request. I would like to draw your attention. Although it is clear to the Sejm Bureau that it is possible to speak without a mask, the Sejm should be in a mask.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u3	God bless you! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a formal proposal - a request for a break and a convening of the Senior Convention in order to deal with this situation. Yesterday at a secret meeting of the National Defense Committee in a bunker on the street. The clone of several dozen present, including commanders, superiors - the highest - ministers, presidents, heads of service, of course the excellent majority was freely unmasked. It's normal. That's the spirit. But since in the army there is training of a Polish soldier, among others. by means of a masking regime, it would be useful to clarify whether the High House intends to continue to follow this hypocrisy or, as the first, second, third persons in the country at the meeting of the committee yesterday (Dzwonek) at ul. The clone decides to go back to normal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u4	Mr President, the situation is clear, all you have to do is show good will. We're in masks in the Seym Room. Exceptions shall be those who have submitted a medical certificate. [[And Grzegorz Braun.]] The speaker, as the Member has done, can be present and spoken without a mask. [[The conclusion...]] The motion will be voted out in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: Information of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber on irregularities detected by the Supreme Audit Chamber in actions undertaken by public authorities and institutions in connection with the organisation or preparation of general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered on 10 May 2020 using correspondence votes. [[Sasin, stay because it's about you.]] [[Sasin, stay.]] I would very much like to ask all Members who do not wish to attend this meeting to silence the talks or to move them outside the Parliamentary Chamber. I ask the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control, Mr Marian Banas, to present the information. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] Mr President, if you don't mind, we will wait just a moment to calm the situation down so that you can present the report calmly and substantively. [[Tell that to the right side of the room, Marshal.]] Madam President, I have already said twice. [[Let them behave.]] I would like to address your fellow Members on the right: please take your seats and keep your conversations quiet. [[The government's jury, too.]] Mr. President, just a moment. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u5	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Marshal, see what the Prime Minister is doing, as the President says.]] The Supreme Audit Chamber in the framework of its audit: The actions of selected entities in preparing the general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered on 10 May 2020 using correspondence votes for the main control objective adopted the determination and assessment of whether the actions taken in preparing the general elections of the President of the Republic of Poland ordered on 10 May 2020 using correspondence votes were lawful and properly implemented and led to the preparation of the Polish Post to handle the elections in correspondence mode. The audit included five units: Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, Ministry of State Assets, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Polish Post SA and Polish Security Printing Works SA. The inspection in all units was carried out on the basis of Article. 2 (2) 1 the Law on the Supreme Chamber of Control on the basis of the criteria set out in Article. Five laws on her. The audit covered the period from 5 February 2020, i.e. the date of the order of the Polish Sejm Marshal on the announcement of the date of the election of the President of the Republic of Poland, until the date of completion of the inspection activities in the unit. In Poczta Polska, the audit work ended on 30 September 2020, in the Ministry of State Assets - 16 October, in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and in the Polish Security Printing Works - 23 October 2020. The Supreme Audit Chamber has negatively assessed the process of preparing the general elections of the President of the Republic of Poland as ordered on 10 May 2020 using correspondence votes. However, it is worth noting that this assessment did not refer to the purpose and correctness of conducting the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland in correspondence mode. As of 31 December 2020, the State budget for this purpose incurred an amount of 56 450 000. zł and these expenses may increase. The detailed results of this audit are presented in the information on the results of the audit published on the Supreme Audit Chamber's website together with all follow-up. In addition, the main findings related to this audit were presented at the press conference on 13 May, as well as at the meeting of the Commission for State Control on 8 June 2021, at the meeting of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology on 10 June 2021, and at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on 23 June 2021. Reservations on follow-up were notified by the managers of all the units under scrutiny, i.e. Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of State Assets, Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration, President of the Management Board of Polish Post and President of the Management Board of the Polish Security Printing Works. The College of the Supreme Audit Chamber at its meeting on 24 March 2021 by Resolutions Nos 14, 15 and 13 dismissed all reservations raised by the Minister of Finance of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of State Assets and the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration respectively. In addition, all reservations of the President of the Management Board of the Polish Post and the President of the Management Board of the Polish Securities Printing Works were dismissed by the resolutions of the panel ruling the ruling commission in NIK of 31 March 2021. The examination of the findings made by the auditors of the Supreme Audit Chamber gave rise to the preparation of notifications of a legitimate suspicion of criminal offences by the boards of controlled companies and the President of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of State Assets and the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration respectively. Notices were sent to the competent prosecutor's office on 13 May, respectively, in the case of company boards, in respect of the infringement of the Article. § 296 § 1 of the Criminal Code, and in the case of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of State Assets and the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on 25 May 2021. Article 231 (1) of the Criminal Code. At the same time, it should be stressed that the results of the audit indicated a breach by the Polish Post of Personal Data Protection regulations, GDPR, through their unlawful request and processing, as NIK also informed the prosecution. With regard to the alleged acts bearing in the assessment of the Supreme Chamber of Control the marks of crimes committed by the highest government officials, I would like to point out that Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers, in the opinion of the Supreme Chamber of Control, exceeded his powers by giving the Polish Post Office and the Polish Security Printing Works an order to take and implement, as part of the anti-COVID-19 actions aimed at preparing the election of the President of the Republic of Poland in 2020 in correspondence mode, while Mr Michał Dworczyk, Head of the Office of the Prime Minister, failed to fulfil his duties. It is worth noting that prior to the decision of the President of the Council of Ministers was in possession of two expert opinions, i.e. The Legal Department of the KPRM and the Public Prosecutor's Office, negatively assessing the possibility of issuing this decision in the current legal state and respecting the possible consequences of these decisions, i.e. constitutional responsibility and criminal and civil liability. The actions of Mr Jacek Sasin, Minister of State Assets, and Mr Mariusz Kaminski, Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, resulted in the deprivation of State authorities' influence on the implementation and control of the decision of the President of the Council of Ministers by the Polish Post SA and the Polish Security Printing Works, including. the resulting financial damage in large sizes, because until today, Poczta Polska has not recovered the amount of 18 675 thousand. PLN, while the Polish Security Printing Works did not recover the amount of 1401 thousand. zł. In the end, both the Law Firm of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, and the Minister of State Assets, despite their involvement in the process of organising elections that had never taken place, have consistently refused to assume responsibility for public funds spent of at least 76 527 thousand. zł. It should also be noted that by the date of completion of the audit operations, Posta Polska had incurred the costs of storing electoral packages, which at 30 September 2020 amounted to almost 375 thousand. gross zloty. At present, storage costs are still incurred, despite the fact that in the light of legal provisions printed so-called. electoral packages, as set out in Article. 8 The electoral code does not constitute election documents, because the elections never ultimately took place. Nor can it be overlooked that the case in question is even curiosed by the Polish Post and PWPW to find entities to cover the costs incurred in preparing the planned elections. In view of the refusal of payment by KPRM, MAP and MSWiA, the companies issued invoices for the Ministry of Finance: PWPW for a total gross amount of 4646 thousand. zł and Poczta Polska for a total gross amount of 71 880 thousand. zł, and Poczta Polska has also taken recovery measures by calling for payment of the above amount of the Minister of Finance - an entity not involved in the organisation of elections by decision of the President of the Council of Ministers. The Director-General of the Ministry of Finance sent the invoice issued by the Polish Post, indicating the lack of competence regarding the regulation of the payment resulting from it. Such actions, consisting of shifting responsibility for illegal spending of such significant public funds, were undoubtedly against the seriousness of the Polish state and were unacceptable. Notifications of a reasonable suspicion of the offence have been addressed to the relevant units of the prosecutor's office which, from the date of referral of those notifications, are their holders and are therefore entitled to provide detailed information on this matter. On 9 September this year. The Chamber received orders to refuse to open an investigation into notifications concerning the Polish Post and the State Security Printing Works. Both provisions of the prosecutor's office will be challenged by the Supreme Audit Chamber. High Seym! I would like to stress that the control of correspondence elections, which did not take place, was extremely difficult to control, and from this point on I would like to thank all the controllers involved. The Supreme Audit Chamber under my direction does not avoid difficult control topics and will not avoid them in the future either. The role of the Supreme Audit Chamber as a body of an independent supreme state control body is to provide the public authorities and the public with reliable and impartial information about the state and the management of public assets or public funds. As President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, I do not run away from this responsibility and will always carry out the mission of the Supreme Audit Chamber as guardian of the public penny. If you have any questions, I'm at your disposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There will certainly be speeches and questions. I'm opening a discussion. I ask that Mr Grzegorz Lorek speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Just tell me the truth.]] And I would very much ask that this side of the room, which admonishes that side of the room, behaves in peace, because during the speech of the President, there were situations where the President had difficulty expressing his phrase. [[Voice from the hall: Because the premiere is gone.]] [[The voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal is the one who's been reprimanded.]] And that is what I did to the Member. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u7	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! The year 2020 was marked by the pandemic of Coronavirus. In the face of such a great global crisis, the priority of the whole government was to ensure security for all citizens. This was also the case for security during the organisation of the presidential elections. I would like to remind you that before the elections there was a general opinion that there was no possibility of a traditional vote. Epidemiologists pointed out both the possibility of health risks and the fear of infection, so the risk of absenteeism of citizens fearing for their health. Under such conditions, the government had to take decisions to ensure the protection of citizens while implementing the active electoral right - the law which the Polish Constitution provides. By creating a real opportunity to vote in correspondence to the extent that the provisions of the electoral code at that time allowed, it was possible to avoid the accumulation of people, especially those particularly vulnerable to the dangerous course of COVID-19, people with chronic and elderly diseases, in larger concentrations and in small areas, during this critical period of public health. This was in line with the provisions of the Constitution and the electoral code. The government has not only the right, but also the duty to ensure the conditions for the presidential elections within a constitutional period. It should be made clear here that the Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the Constitution, set this deadline for 10 May 2020. In view of the above, the President of the Council of Ministers issued on 16 April 2020 two administrative decisions addressed to public entrepreneurs: one to the Polish Post and the other to the Polish Security Printing Works. These decisions were intended to allow correspondence voting in these elections in accordance with the electoral code in force at that time. The idea was that as many voters as possible could actually take part in the voting process in correspondence, if these voters were entitled to do so under the electoral code. The provisions of the electoral code provided and provided for a specific role for the Polish Post in preparing correspondence elections. This Poczta Polska is an intermediary for the delivery of electoral packages, maybe also. receive from voters filled with ballots. The President of the Council of Ministers, obliging the Polish Post to prepare correspondence voting, did not violate the law in any way. He only obliged the Polish Post to take the measures provided for in the provisions of the law generally in force, in particular in the provisions of the electoral code. In fulfilling his duty to act, he was primarily driven by the security of the citizens. Each institution has acted in accordance with its respective competences. The decisions issued were without prejudice to the statutory powers of the electoral authorities: the State Election Commission and the National Election Office. The tasks of these institutions shall not include preparation for correspondence voting. The electoral code clearly indicates that these tasks belong to the Polish Post. The State Election Commission and the National Election Office did not have the competence to recommend the Polish Post Office to start the preparations to conduct the correspondence vote. I would like to remind you that the Sejm adopted a law on this matter on 6 April. The Senate rejected her on 5 May, i.e. 5 days before the scheduled election date. The Prime Minister's decision to carry out certain technical tasks required by the correspondence elections was also due to the constitutional right to participate in elections for those persons who, for reasons beyond their control: old age, disability or quarantine, could not take part in a traditional vote. The President of the Council of Ministers has not exceeded this within the scope of his powers set out in the abovementioned law. He did not order the presidential election or the correspondence voting procedure. Order issued by the President of the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the proposal being implemented on the basis of the regulation contained in the Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 specific measures should be assessed as a necessary, necessary and exceptional action aimed directly at combating and preventing the epidemic. The state of the epidemic, during which the elections for President of the Republic of Poland are to be held in 2020 in correspondence, undoubtedly justifies the use of the possibility of intervention of the President of the Council of Ministers introduced in the special scheme. There is also no doubt that, under the COVID-19 Act, he was competent to issue instructions to prevent the spread of the epidemic. In view of the lack of agreement between political forces on the change of election date, it was not only the responsibility of the President of the Council of Ministers to organise elections, but also to prevent the spread of epidemics during the elections held in the regional electoral committees. The only possible solution was to prepare for the possibility of correspondence elections. High Izbo! I would like to point out that, because of Coronavirus, there have been correspondence elections in other countries. The second round of local elections took place in Bavaria, in a 10-million-dollar land. It was purely correspondence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The preparation of correspondence elections was intended to avoid State destabilisation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u8	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will present to you Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska. [[Applause]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u9	Mr. Marshal! Difficult matters for the PiS, and there is no one to refer to them, especially those we will talk about, and they are absent from this room. We all remember the 13th of May and the NIK report presented by President Marian Banasi. This is such a short history of lawlessness in Poland related to the preparation of the presidential election on 10 May. The NIK audit dealt with a number of cases that at the time upset the public in our country. But before I get to that, I'll remind you of what the PiS said: The correspondence election on May 10th is 100%. We'll make it. The preparations go full steam. The mail will be ready. I am convinced that at the moment there is no reason to introduce a state of natural disaster. For a few weeks, the people of Law and Justice have ensured to the public that correspondence elections will be held on 10 May. They were self-confident, regardless of the laws and procedures that were in force, and they held elections. It is not only that they have shown themselves to be criminally incompetent, but during the first wave of pandemics they have led to completely unnecessary electoral, constitutional and democratic chaos in Poland. Before this lawlessness I warned you, and I remember what hat it was for me and the many people who said it fell on me. [[Applause]] That's what the constitutionalists were talking about. It's the experts. I remind you, they said: This is a violation of the principle of the integrity of elections, the principle of protecting citizens' confidence in the state and the law. Elections will be undemocratic. It's a constitutional violation. And then there was the judgment of the Voivodship Administrative Court: the decision of the Prime Minister to hand over the preparation of the vote to Poczta Polska was invalid and grossly violated the law. Yes, it was an invalid and illegal decision. KPRM also had expertise that said that this was the unlawful operation of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister knew that. And lawlessness is the key to telling the story of what happened in the election preparations for May 10th. The NIK report reveals a demonstration of government incompetence, chaos, acting blindly, based only on oral decisions, not law. When I recall the certainty and satisfaction of PiS politicians for correspondence elections, and we compare it with the results of the report of the NIK, it is not within the mind of hypocrisy and corruption prevailing in the ruling camp. [[Applause]] You knew you had no legal basis. You knew your decision could easily be sued. You knew that you illegally deprived the PKW of the authority that you did not have any contracts with the Polish Post and the Security Printing Works. There weren't even any financial analyses. And yet you went all out. One decision of the Minister - a decision concerning 70 million for the printing of electoral packages. One word for the premiere - these packages are printed. PiS made Poland a limited liability company. You think you're allowed to do anything because you're a law, but that law doesn't exist for you. Key things... [[We were trying to save you, Marshal.]] Please allow your marshal to speak. I'd rather have the PiS not helping me at all in my life, I'd feel safer. [[Applause]] Key issues for citizens, important for democracy in Poland, are reflected as a ping-pong ball between NIK and the government. They're responding to the charges with further charges. Unfortunately, you're already lying about everything because you're afraid of the truth. That's why nobody's here. There isn't. That's why Minister Sasin isn't here. That's why there's no Prime Minister Moravian. [[Applause]] And the truth is of interest to citizens - the truth about the illegal actions of the government, the truth about the wrongly spent public money, thrown into the mud. But there's one thing missing from this story. But Vice Prime Minister Sasin didn't come up with it himself. It was not invented by Prime Minister Morawiecki either. [[Kaczynski.]] There is a lack of a major inventor who has publicly admitted to it. I quote President Kaczyński, who said: there was an idea - I do not hide that mine - to conduct correspondence elections. He said it himself. Who will now be responsible for the illegal but also the very expensive idea of the president? In a healthy democracy such a scale of abuse would result in the resignation of the Prime Minister and many ministers. [[Applause]] But it's different in Poland. They don't care at all. The results of the audit do not impress you (the bell) because you feel and are convinced that you have justice in your hands and can use it in your own interests. But that doesn't mean it's gonna be like this forever. You have political and criminal responsibility. And you will be held responsible for every gold issued illegally and for preparing elections in isolation from the electoral system. [[Applause]] For lawlessness, abuse, and chaos, you will answer immediately. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u10	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would now like to ask Mr Przemysław Koperski, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u11	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The President of the Supreme Audit Chamber has extensively presented the results of controls organised by the Polish government ministers of the united right-wing party: Mr Jacek Sasin, Mr Michał Dworczyk, Mr Mariusz Kaminski and Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, with the participation of the Polish Post Board and the heads of the Polish Security Printing Works concerning the envelope elections in May Ub. The auditors of the Supreme Audit Chamber pointed out the monstrous irregularities associated with the organisation of this para-election spectacle. According to independent controllers NIK played in this theatre of dolls cost Poles at least 76 million PLN. After approval by independent controllers of the NIK, showing the scale of the violation of the laws and constitution of the report, approved by several members of the college of NIK - it is important, because about this later - the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber sent to the prosecutor's office a notice of a legitimate suspicion of the offence by the Polish Post Board, the Management Board of the Polish Security Printing Works, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of the PiS Party of Mr Jacek Sasin, the Ministers of the PiS Party of Mr Mariusz Kaminski and Mr Michał Dworczyk, and the Prime Minister of the Polish Government of the United Party of the Right of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. Good. [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me a moment, sir. Colleagues, I ask you very much to respect a colleague who speaks. It really makes it very difficult for him to speak... [[But, Marshal, we respectfully...]] Yeah, I get it. Just respectfully keep it down. [[You're so nervous today.]] [[Voice from the room: Time flies.]] You're welcome, sir. Thank you very much, Marshal. Good. The Left considers that all the irregularities shown by the Supreme Chamber of Control, the abuse of power, must be carefully checked and settled. The Left speaks decisively of all attempts to tamper with elections. Anyone who wants to be a puppet in the hands of the authorities and do business in elections, to break the law freely for his own business or for the interests of his master, must face the fact that sooner or later he will stand before an independent prosecutor, before an independent court, and if he is a minister, he will stand before the Court of State. Things got a little puppet-y, and I don't see Geppett or Pinocchio in the gym. So maybe now something about letters and envelopes. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! In primary school, children wrote an essay, a letter in which Pinocchio was asked to apologize to Geppett for his behavior. The letter isn't here today because our Pinocchio doesn't apologize. And there's nothing to apologize for, either, Geppett. But there's an envelope left. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the envelope has become a symbol of this power, because since the beginning of the government of the Polish united party of the right hand, these envelopes have been circulating somewhere. I have to say, they're circling the ventilators, circling the masks, circling the case of two silver towers, the helicopters, the planes, the woods, the KNF. Wherever we look, wherever we look, for years, for months, envelope circles all the time. We also have envelopes for the famous envelope elections. Today you are not more a party of the Polish united right, but a united party of envelopes. However, we will talk more about this probably in the afternoon or in the following days, when we will talk about the Polish Lad, which is not associated with the Polish Lad, but with the Polish envelope. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on State Control, you once again fought with the President of NIK, who accused him of violating his deputy's rights. He filed a case with the D.A.'s office and wants to call him off. This fight between you has been going on for months, it is like the battle on the Somme: on one side the President of NIK and constitutional protection of NIK, on the other side the majority of the Sejm of the Polish united party of the right and vice president of Dziuba. The front has been in place for months, and the victims of this fight are Poles. Today it must be made clear that in a few weeks we may find a paralyzed NIK because the party of power does not appoint to this day, despite the conclusions of the President of NIK, further members of the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Today there are eight positions unattended and a quorum is at risk when approving (the bell) further reports that are prepared by independent controllers of NIK. I want to say last, because time is running out, that every few days you try to discredit and compromise President Banasi. True, he has great burdens on his conscience. We filed a motion for a Court of State for Marian Banasia two years ago, but I'm sure you, instead of a hard conscience, would be better suited to the CEO of NIK today with such concrete shoes, political concrete shoes for the president. And here, unfortunately, I can think of a sad association of this situation with the situation of Italian Don Masino, and more Polish Mass, which until the very end was discredited by Pruszków. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Don't embarrass...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u12	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to express my appreciation to the Supreme Audit Chamber's auditors for the fact that, despite the absolute pressure of power, [[Applause]] the abusive attacks attempted to carefully control what was accepted to be called the envelope elections prepared by the Government of Law and Justice. Today, this report will probably not make a greater impression on the representatives of the authorities - it is an ostentatious exit of prominent representatives of clubs, including ministers, shows the attitude, attitude towards it. It's probably gonna be hard to change anything from that report today, but it's gonna be time. I think that the coalition club of the Polish People's Party will be one of those political environments that will support the creation of a committee of inquiry, which will account for each of the negligence mentioned in this report. In fact, this report is a good start to assess the state's current state, to assess the structures of the state's functioning - today it is more like a private farm than a well-functioning state of law. But these matters will be settled - like the envelope elections, the case of two towers, the situation in horse studs, the case of the power plant in Ostrołęka. They must be settled, if we are talking about repairing the state, repairing its functioning. The report is devastating, it is devastating to the leading officials of the state, to the leading representatives of the government. This report results in extremely dangerous phenomena of non-respect for fundamental principles in the disposal of public finances, for example. No mode, no right big money left It's really ground. They could serve Poles today in much more important areas, in much more important matters, but if there is a political interest, President Kaczyński does not hesitate to trample on any rules. And you assured the President, you assured other representatives of the United Right six years ago, asking Poles to vote that this country would rebuild - supposedly - that it would be a super-efficient state. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is good to go back to these words, to these declarations, because politics is also a responsibility for words, responsibility for action. Today, they were destroyed by what we read in the report. Key thesis or final provisions - it is worth talking about it to boredom. In Poland, according to the current constitution, no other body, except the State Election Commission, can organise the electoral process. And whether you like it or not from the United Right, it's a foundation you can't break. The Polish Post Office or any institution that has even been subjected to some extraordinary pressure, administer, manage personal data, and this has happened on an extraordinary scale. The third fundamental charge, which is also worth recalling, cannot be held in such reckless way by many millions of public money. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice, that if in local governments even a few hundred zlotys were ordered in the way that Prime Minister Morawiecki or Prime Minister Sasin did in the case of envelope elections, this local governmentman would probably no longer be a local governmentman - if he had not served his sentence, he would have suffered any or even significant punishment. What happened when it came to the gentlemen I called? [[Applause]] As you can see, the hair didn't fall off their heads. But, like I said, the time will come, we'll settle these cases, the committee of inquiry will examine it to the core. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u14	Thank you very much for presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. I now ask Mr Arthur Dziambor, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u15	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Quite interesting event today we have - quite symptomatic is that the benches of the Law and Justice Club are empty, there are no main characters with us today's speech by the President of the Supreme Auditorium. Prime Minister Morawiecki. Prime Minister, that's right, you're out of your league, I'd like to say. Mr. Michael the Courtman! You didn't do your job either. Mr. Jack Sasin! Your actions resulted in the fact that it was impossible to organise these elections. Mr. Kaminski! You are also accused of failing to do your duty there. You'll let them know, won't you? I hope you'll let them know. Listen: the situation in which we are in, the situation in which the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber shows that the highest people in the country, the most important people in the country have exceeded their powers, and because they have done so, the Treasury has lost tens of millions of zlotys, this is a situation after which at least the resignation should take place. This is the second point: of course, the committee of inquiry, possibly drawing further criminal consequences, but although they should resign. After all, these are the people who threw tens of millions of zlotys out of the state budget with a light hand. But of course they're innocent because the party of lawlessness and injustice said so. It's not like they're gonna throw out their brightest stars. [[They will, they will.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We knew from the beginning it would look like this. But I know very well that at this moment millions of Poles are watching us. So maybe I won't talk to you because you already have everything set up, just to the country that you're watching. Don't listen to me - I'm a politician, you know I use rhetorical figures sometimes, I can manipulate sometimes, it happens to politicians. This is how you, the audience, voters, Poles can see us. But the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber is not a politician, he doesn't fight for support in poll posts, he doesn't convince. The Supreme Audit Chamber presented a report, checked invoices, contracts, decisions based on documents and found out what it had said. Think about it: If Poland were a company and your employee, like Mateusz Morawiecki, led to the disappearance of more than 70 million PLN, would you like to keep such an employee? They should resign, that's where they should start. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And then the rest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u16	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday to present the position of the Polska 2050 wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u17	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The information presented to us by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber about the envelope elections is a real study of the distribution of the state, its privatisation and its misrepresentation of legal procedures. This is an image of ignoring the principles and the epidemic threat to political facilities from Nowogrodzka. There are two special moments in this frightening story. The first is when the Prime Minister receives two negative legal opinions from the KPRM Legal Department and the Attorney General, after which, because he consciously wants to break the law, he seeks an excuse by ordering an external opinion, which is of course positive. For public money, he orders a pad to justify the further course of events. What exactly did the Prime Minister do? This should be explained in an example. Well, imagine a situation in which the doctor has his own diagnosis theory, so he rejects twice the examination from the medical laboratory to commission it to an external company, e.g. chemical analysis, not blood, but fuel. Or if such an architect twice denied the expertise of the ceiling construction by commissioning the operation to a brother-in-law for the valuation of agricultural land? This moment, when external analysis is ordered, exposes the common and well-known practice of commissioning not objective studies to private companies, but those whose result is known in advance. I'll tell you all about it - quoting the classic scene from the Bear. No one expected this practice to apply also to the most important decisions in the country. Can we be sure of anything, any decision of this government, if the government can justify everything externally ordered, and paid out of public money? The second appalling moment of this story is what happens after a decision supported by a private opinion has been pushed through. The institutions released from the legal framework are starting to operate outside the procedures. This network is created quickly, and decisions are made in a vague way, on the phone. It's a network of colleagues, an octopus that illegally took the state away from us, marginalizing the role of PKW and the need for legal agreements. This fun of yours cost us over 70 million PLN. Someday you'll be settled for it. Not tonight. But knowledge of the mechanisms of your abuses will be priceless one day and therefore on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 thank you from this place to the NIK controllers for their independence and courage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u18	Thank you very much, Member. The Declaration on behalf of the Circle of the Agreement will be made by Mr Michał Drink.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u19	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There are two requests after hearing the information of Mr NIK: the elections were illegal and the pursuit of them was an anti-state activity. Every memory of the events of more than a year ago for my political environment is so important that we had a serious dispute at the time, because we feared that the pursuit of elections in this form would result in Poland being pushed out of a family of European countries with a high democratic standard, that the mandate of the person elected in elections, who enjoyed the greatest interest and turnout of Poles, and in addition in a pandemic era, with fear and uncertainty, will be disturbed by the social emotion that could lead to a real catastrophe. But also today we hear about one more thing that can upset and hurt anyone for whom the Polish state is important as an institution that is to be efficient. This is a lack of responsibility for those who lead to a waste of public money. This case does not only concern political parties or political classes, it concerns every Pole because it was the money of Poles that was prepared for illegal elections. No one has had any consequences for this until today, and no one has any responsibility for it. This may bring to mind the right past system and the similar treatment of the state, citizens and state instruments. That is why this crushing report is a strong warning, but it is also an expression of treason. Because he was a betrayal, he is a betrayal to all those who believe that the camp of the United Right is the cluster of people who, having to choose political interest in a certain arrangement, their bias, their party and the interests of the state, will never wonder and will always choose what is most important, that is, the interests of the state. At this point, It can be seen very clearly that the Law and Justice failed all those who believed that the camp of the United Right was a camp of prostates, is a camp of patriots. 'Cause last year we saw who's who on the palm of our hand. And this is one of the most important reflections of this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The patrons.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u20	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Szramka will present the position of the Polish Circle of Posel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're meeting today on a very important matter. The opinion of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber on envelope elections is devastating. And what, ladies and gentlemen? On such an important matter, we have emptiness on the government side. I, especially for you - because you may not see it - will count the Members of the Law and Justice. It's not gonna be hard. There's five people in the room. The government bench is empty. If we moved to the desert now, there would be more life than in government benches, and it is these people who are responsible for the fact that we hovered tens of millions of zlotys. [[Voice from the room: Excuse me, from Solidarna Polski...]] I'm talking about the PiS club... The Member rightly noted that there are only two people from PiS and three from Solidarna Polska. So respect for your courage to come unless you're sent here for punishment. Maybe they sent you for punishment so you could listen to these critical opinions. Unfortunately, the government is unable to hear them. Yet every wise man always focuses on what he does wrong to correct it. He readily listens to criticism, listens to counsel that is given to him. Unfortunately, at the moment, we have a very critical assessment of what has happened in the last year. With regard to public finances, it is always said that you need to look at every dollar twice to spend it for a specific and appropriate purpose. Here, however, we are dealing with the situation that almost PLN 100 million was spent. This money is still being spent, as the president said, and nothing is happening. No one has been held responsible, no one has even been dismissed, let alone financial responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen! We can't agree to such treatment. It is difficult to say to ghosts, but dear ruling spirits: How should we take you seriously when you do not take Poland seriously? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u22	Thank you very much. That concludes the presentation of statements on behalf of clubs and circles. We're joining Question Time. If any of your fellow Members would like to join the list, please. If there are no more volunteers, I close the list and set the time to ask questions for 1 minute. At the same time, I am reassured that if any of your fellow Members' comments extend, I will not interfere with its content and time. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Grzegorz Lorek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u23	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prof. Elżbieta Chojna-Guch stresses that elections under the current Constitution should take place no earlier than 100 days and no later than 70 days before the end of the term of office. So they were ordered for May 10th. In the light of the order of the Marshals of the Sejm, the executive actions carried out by the Deputy Prime Minister are necessary and result from the proper management of the State. You couldn't have printed it a few days before the election, you couldn't wait for the election to be organized until early May. In addition, public institutions often prepare in advance for future responsibilities, tasks, and even beyond the scope of the mandate, take specific risks. Such risks could be the spending of funds from the state budget for voting cards. In the Supreme Audit Chamber's report on correspondence elections against companies, only one audit proposal was formulated, which we believe is unjustified. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u24	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Sławomir Nitras to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u25	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the Seym Room, and here are some very serious words. Here the Polish Prime Minister was accused that he abused the rights, that he entered the powers of the State Election Commission, that he was trying to conduct illegal elections. Ten years in jail for that. The Prime Minister can escape from this place for a few hours, you can not come to the debate, but from the courtroom, when the charges are made, Mr Morawiecki, you cannot escape. You will sit down in this courtroom, and you will have to answer for all the crimes that the Supreme Board of Control is accusing you of one day, even though they are not prosecuted by the prosecutor's office. Why? It is because Mr.Kowalski, Mr.Ziobro, is waging slogans about the primacy of Polish law over EU law, they really think about their own impunity. Because we are not talking about the primacy of EU law over Polish law. We are talking about the fact that the Polish people like Mr.Kowalski have settled down, just like Mr.Ziobro, who are fighting for their own impunity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's impunity. This is not about any law: neither Polish nor European. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You're wrong.]] Mr. Marshal! Last sentence. But there is an end somewhere, and your end can be seen very clearly. Your end is in the penultimate bench of this House, where Paweł Kukiz sits. Because your fate today depends on two and three of Kukiz's votes. And Kukiz himself doesn't know how to vote tonight. And that's the end of you two. There will be an end to this impunity and for everything you have done to the Polish state, for trying to make illegal choices just to achieve your political goal, you will simply pay. You will pay for the interests of the Polish state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u26	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear President, My constituents have asked me to thank you very warmly for the uncompromising explanation of our country's structures. It brings hope to the voters. All of Poland has been witnessing further inspections of the most important bodies of our country for many months. Further checks show numerous irregularities, abuses, and even crimes committed by ministerial officials. The allegations are very serious and relate to multimillion-dollar abuses. What's the government doing in this situation? The government is issuing further messages to build the narrative: Poles, nothing happened. At the same time, members of the same government are applying for the waiver of immunity to President NIK and are implementing (the bell) further scenarios that PiS politicians were talking about to deprive Mr Banas of his position. Mr Kaczyński, Vice Prime Minister for Security, absent! How long will you allow such practices in a law-abiding country? When will the investigation be implemented with regard to the members of the government? Just repeating the password that nothing happened, ridicules both the government institution and the ruling party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u28	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to the statement within the club position, I would like to thank thousands of local government officials in Poland who showed determination, courage from this place. [[Applause]] They did not succumb to pressure or pressure and refused to participate in the criminal activity of the envelope elections, making it impossible to carry them out to a large extent. Thank you from this place for the way you behaved. This is truly commendable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u30	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Braun.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u31	God bless you again. I immediately asked Mr Lorek, who, if I have heard correctly, said that everything was lege artis with the envelope elections, because state officials often, as Mr Lorek said, exceed their powers in some higher interest, because of some noble motives. Take back the tape and listen to the tape. Perhaps, Mr. President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, we have here a public report from which we must draw the right conclusions. I have a question for the president himself. I would like to clarify who, therefore, put the legal basis for the decision that you finally made with your sidekicks. As we heard, government attorneys (the bell) shuddered to deliver such a document. So who gave Morawiecki, Dworczyk et consoltes an alibi on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u32	I remind you that it happens that Members also violate the provisions of the Sejm Bureau, for which they are often excluded from the proceedings of the Sejm. I now ask Mr Janusz Kowalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The opposition and Mr Tomasz Grodzki wanted the presidential elections not to take place within the constitutional deadline referred to in the article. 128 Polish Constitution. The total opposition participated in an anti-state show last year. The United Right participated in the performance of saving the reputation of the Polish state attacked by the opposition. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: You better not save anything, I beg you.]] I appeal to the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber not to participate in this spectacle and in total opposition policy, but to really focus on the performance of state tasks. On the other hand, Mr Nitras is very clear... [[It hurts.]] ...if it were up to me... Your behavior as a total opposition is absolutely fulfilling all the conditions of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3rd Penal Code. You are still attacking the Polish state and threatening constitutional authorities. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: PiS is not a country, man.]] You're attacking the Constitutional Court. You continue to exceed your powers when it comes to the prosecution of Brussels officials for the constitutional authorities (The Bell) of the Polish State. The problem is, if we were to charge you, there would be no room for you in Białołęka jail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u34	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs... [[You forgot to tell me about the coal.]] Mr Nitras, will you allow your colleague? Mrs Barbara Nowacka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After this Russian propaganda, maybe we should talk a little bit about Poland. [[Applause]] After what Mr. Kowalski presented here - it is about trying to intimidate the opposition and telling anti-Polish nonsense - time for a serious conversation about what happened in the Republic of Poland in May ub. The rule of law requires not only a majority, which is fragile and variable, but also a social mandate to exercise power and moral consent to rule. For this to happen, it is necessary, first, to follow the letter of law and, second, to have fundamental respect for the state, public money, citizens and institutions. The rulers don't have that respect. They don't respect the High House. They do not have the courage to come here and face serious charges, criminal charges against the rulers, Prime Minister, Minister Kaminski, Minister Dworczyk and Minister Sasin. They have no respect for the law they broke. When planning their envelope choices, most things were done on the proverbial face. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They have no respect for public money, especially in times of pandemic, especially when they saw what Poland looks like. This money should have gone to people in need, fighting for their lives and their health. They have no respect for society. They showed this with their arrogance and impertinent lies from the Seym Hall. People will have no respect for them either. The only thing that awaits those who break the law and do not show humility, the rulers, is the punishment of a just court, which will simply settle you for abuse, for the use of the state and for the destruction of the rule of law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! When the Polish Parliament democratically accepts the information of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber about the irregularities detected in the actions undertaken by state authorities and public institutions, the government deserts, the government does not want to present its arguments here in Parliament. This shows that you consciously accept the results of the audit you presented to the President. Mr. President! I wanted to ask whether the requests which have been addressed to the prosecution by the Supreme Audit Chamber were accepted or whether you have been informed that there has been some action by public authorities since the submission of these requests. And second question. You also informed the Sejm that the Polish Post Office and the Polish Security Printing Works sent appropriate invoices to the Ministry of Finance. You also said that the Director General of the Ministry of Finance sent them away. You described it, you said that such actions put the seriousness of the Polish state in jeopardy and are frivolous. Will further action be taken on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u38	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Michał Grammar.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In April 2020, the Minister of Digitization made personal data available to the Polish and Polish companies of commercial law, Poczta Polska, gigabytes of data: our addresses, PESEL numbers, names. The Minister of Digitization said he acted on behalf of the President of the Council of Ministers. The problem is that the Minister acted unlawfully because there was no provision between the moment of release of this data and 9 May this year that would allow such data to be transmitted to the postal operator. Ladies and gentlemen! It was the biggest data leak in the history of the Republic of Poland. What have the authorities of the State responsible for the protection of our personal data done about this? What action has Mr Ziobra's infamous prosecution taken on this matter? To this day, these questions remain unanswered. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u40	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Mrs Magdalena Sroka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. President! From the very beginning, the agreement said that envelope elections could not be conducted legally, according to the law. We told you, but then they wouldn't listen to us, and they wouldn't listen to this debate today either. At that time we said that we should choose the interests of the state, not the interests of our own party, not the marketing interests transferred by the advisors of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. But today, Mr President, I would like to ask you one thing: during the inspection carried out by NIK controllers, did you pay attention to the increase in orders or purchases made by Treasury companies or other state institutions for Polish Post, so that the costs incurred by the Polish Post Office (Dzinek) would be reduced? Was this the case? Did you notice this during the inspection? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u42	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mr Paweł Szramka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I have a question for you. We see that in government benches all the time empty, it hasn't changed throughout the debate, no one was there, so, Mr. President, I wanted to ask you if at any stage of the check did you see the desire to do it the way it was supposed to, or did the government lean on the case, or did they draw any consequences, and did they at least try to correct their mistakes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u44	Thank you. I now ask Mr Mariusz Goska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u45	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We know very well that the election situation was extraordinarily exordinary because it took place in a time of the raging pandemic of Coronavirus. The Constitution makes it clear that elections for the President's office must take place no later than 75 days before the end of the term of office and that the State has sought to ensure that these elections do not take place. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: But it didn't happen.]] Mrs. Marshal! But you're not nervous. I didn't bother you. What were you trying to do this way? To paralyze the state? After all, you know very well that the legislative process would be disturbed, that the laws that passed through the Polish Parliament, the Polish Parliament, eventually go to the President. So? The president's position would remain a Vacationing position? The Polish state, the Polish government, stood at the level of the task and carried out the duties which imposed on the authorities of the Polish state the constitution. You were talking about a mad pandemic and that this (Bell) pandemic is supposed to go down in the fall. Mr. Boris Budka himself indicated that there are some expertise that we have never heard of and that no one has said that this pandemic will be decreasing in the fall. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u46	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Michael Szczerba a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u47	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! All indications are that the Russian order was supposed to precede the Russian elections. It was fortunately different, but this report, High Izbo, as in the lens shows all the pathologies of the PiS state: lack of legal basis, mismanagement, intention and decisions taken under pressure, without any mode. Mr. President! The question is simple: Did the Supreme Audit Chamber control the role of Jarosław Kaczyński in the case of surgery: envelope elections? Will the Supreme Audit Chamber continue checks on envelope elections? If so, in what areas? Next question: What action is NIK taking on the breach of the GDPR? Poczta Polska, asking the Minister of Digitization for the transfer of our personal data, i.e. PESEL, data from the electoral census, violated the Personal Data Protection Act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Another case, Mr. President. Today there was a quote in one of Minister Dworczyk's e-mails, which says this: They sent us a control plan for next year. On the 90 planned several are with great potential. There were some problems. Mr. President, do you know what areas this is about? In these areas, is the Supreme Audit Chamber planning a check? Is this about the Justice Fund? Is this about the Ostrołęka power plant? Is this about shopping in a pandemic? How many more topics are there for which we can expect, as Minister Dworczyk said, to do with great potential? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u48	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Przemysław Koperski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The President of the Supreme Chamber of Control spoke about responsibility, about the Polish funds lost by the state, over 76 million. I would like to ask you about the possibility of bringing to bear the material responsibility of those who were responsible for these decisions. The High Sejm in 2011 was kind to adopt a law on the material liability of persons who take office, on the material responsibility of officers. These provisions state that any public official who takes an unlawful decision in respect of which the Treasury has suffered a loss may be held financially liable in the amount of 12 months' conscriptions. And today I have a question, Mr. President: Is it possible, on the basis of these regulations, to hold President Jarosław Kaczyński responsible? [[♪ The bell ♪]] and Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin responded with a 12-month remuneration for organising these envelope elections in May 2020? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u50	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u51	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This country is actually entirely to be renovated. In any democratic state of law in which President NIK in his report would find that the Prime Minister broke the law by organising elections without the supervision of the State Election Commission, above the law, he would simply be dismissed and would be brought before the Court of State. But this country was designed years ago so that politicians would not be held liable to remain unpunished so that the Court of State would be the facade controlled by the parliamentary majority, which, in the present case, simply wants to remain unpunished, has no honor and guilt. We're gonna change that. We'll fix this country as soon as we get you out of power. But I also have a question for the president of NIK (the bell) because various myths about this are circulating: Who actually incurred the cost of organising envelope elections?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u52	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Monica Wielichowska. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki broke the law. The pseudo-operative elections were a scam worth 76 million public money. We talked about this more than a year ago. We talked about the fact that Prime Minister Morawiecki and Ministers of Dworczyk, Sasin and Kaminski exceeded their powers by commissioning election preparation. None of the faults identified in the ruling report of the Supreme Audit Chamber is present today in the debate in the Parliament. Everyone's gone. They also do not have the support of their friends from PiS. They fled because they know that a crime was committed, that the act of power was illegal, that 76 million PLN was thrown into the mud. Morawiecki, Dworczyk and Sasin should have resigned long ago, and before resigning they should apologize to Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, who was the only one bravely and unambiguously decided not to take part in this farce, without regard for her own interests. [[Applause]] I am curious what about the devastating report to this authority NIK will hear and what about it (the bell) viewers will see so-called. public television. I'm afraid nothing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u54	Thank you very much, Member. The question will be asked by Dariusz Wieczorek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, this report shows that money actually was spent illegally from the state budget, funds that are not the property of the government majority, funds that come from our taxes. Secondly, it is clear that you did this only to manipulate these elections so that President Duda could win these elections. If, as Law and Justice, you refer, as I hear, to the constitution, then in this constitution there are exceptional states and there is a state of natural disaster that had to be introduced. You didn't do it. You made an envelope election that you knew were illegal, because there's a State Election Commission since the election was organized. Here's my question. On 31 December 2020, the Council of Ministers decided to mobilise the reserve from the State budget. Did the NIK investigate who requested this reserve to be activated? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What were the basics? What were the arguments to transfer 56 million PLN from the state budget to the envelope elections? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u56	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Wojciech Maximovich to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The actions taken around the envelope elections in the history of Polish politics will be discussed in a separate chapter of the manual. But it will not be in the glorious part of this textbook, but on the contrary - it will be about crossing the boundaries of law and honesty in order to enable party victories. This is also the time when any community of the United Right has fallen, and this crisis, of course, has so far caused a disorganization of the functioning of the state, because we are looking for individual votes to support the important problems to be solved, various proposals. At that time, it was common to believe that there was a conscious violation of the rules. Mr President, I have a question: How did the DA's office justify its decision not to deal with these matters? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u58	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Mrs Margaret Janyska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Deception and corruption in the reigning camp. I will repeat these words for you, Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, because they should be repeated all the time, because hypocrisy and corruption in the camp governing this is the guiding theme of the action of this authority in every area. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, this hypocrisy and this corruption also began to apply to those organs that should be impartial and objective. They were also present at the D.A.'s office because, as we hear from the president of NIK, no proceedings have been initiated in a case which is an obvious crime. The prosecution, which should be impartial and objective, is actively involved in weakening the rule of law. And here's a question for the CEO of NIK: So, Mr. President, isn't this the way the D.A.'s office doesn't cut its wings, kills the motivation of those authorities that should be chasing and notifying the D.A.'s office of the possibility of committing a crime? Isn't it purposeful to (the bell) not to conduct such activities and not to show this hypocrisy, this corruption and the crimes that the authorities commit? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u60	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Wanda Nowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u61	Dear Marshal, Mr. President! High Izbo! How does our democracy reflect the fact that President Kaczyński and the entire PiS completely disregarded the results of the Supreme Audit Chamber's control, which is the most important institution for controlling the democratic rule of law? After all, the NIK report showed that when it comes to envelope elections, PiS broke the constitution, the laws and threw millions of our money into the mud. What did the government have to say? Nothing. In the Chamber only Members on duty, or perhaps even one Member at the moment. Everyone else has this important debate in their noses. Question to the President of NIK: Mr President, can you even talk about Poland as a state of law when the most important officials break the law in an absolute sense of impunity, because they know that the PiS-owska authorities will protect them, know that the prosecution, completely subordinate to the power of the PiS, will not do anything that they can continue to break the law and waste our money? Breaking the law by Prime Minister Morawiecki, Deputy Prime Minister Sasin and others is ignoring the control institution, in fact ignoring us, the citizens, the citizens, is a total degenerate of power. The fish breaks from the head. That head's already broken. It's already reeking of clogging your nose. But your impunity, your insolence and your pride will soon be over. The Poles and Poles will be billing you soon. And respect for the NIK controllers for carrying out such a thorough inspection. Thank you, Marshal. I'm sorry I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u62	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Tomasz Zimoch.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. President! In order not to repeat the issues that have already been raised here, I would like to draw attention to the words of the President. In the information provided to the Sejm, you said that it was extremely difficult to control, and then you said a big thank-you to your employees. So I ask: What was the main problem? What is the meaning of that word when it comes to this control? Was it and possibly who made it difficult for the controllers to work? If so, how? And, Mr President, were there any pressure on the final work on the report? If so, were these external pressures, or did (the bell) also happen and internal pressures? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u64	Thank you very much. I would now ask you to ask Katarzyna Lubnauer for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! It must be made clear that the envelope elections were a scam from the beginning. If you are trying to replace the National Election Commission with the Polish Post, it is difficult to talk about elections at all. Conclusions to the prosecutor's office for Prime Minister Morawiecki, for ministers Sasin, Kaminski, Dworczyk clearly state where we are, that we really have a real Russian order. Of course, at the moment, Zbigniew Ziobro is protecting his government colleagues as the Attorney General. Let's be honest, he has his own dealings with President Banas, because let's remind you that there's also a report from the NIK on the Justice Fund. Hence, as I understand it, he protects his own, knowing that he may also need protection in the future. But someday it'll be beautiful, someday it'll be normal. Someday, those people who are now protecting themselves with the government's attorney's office will be responsible for these cases before the prosecutor's office (the bell) and the court. We'll settle them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u66	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Romuald Ajchler.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not talk about elections here, about what happened in the past, because I believe that even the wisest words spoken from this speaker will not bring much further debate. The Poles know what happened at the time, they have an opinion about the envelope elections and will definitely stay with them. But I'm interested in one thing that I'm referring to your president. I'd like you to give me your answer in writing. Not all the envelope election bills have been paid yet. You mentioned in your speech... Several million governments - whether those who ordered (the bell) to hold elections - are responsible for the Polish Post Office. Probably 1.5 million or more than 1.5 million zlotys are expected to pay for the transactions carried out. What's it like? Could you give in your summary how much more has to be paid for this clumsy matter of making an envelope election? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u68	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Mirosław Suchon to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that, in the case of an attempt to conduct an envelope election, we have been faced with a powerful abuse of power, which has no rules and no directions except one: to maintain power at all costs and not to allow ourselves to push even an inch away from this proverbial trough. This power doesn't respect the law, it doesn't respect people. Today, President NIK was like a prosecutor in a court of law who calculated the next crimes, the next crimes of criminals. Only government benches today were empty, although usually at trial there are people who have committed all these wickednesss. As part of the implementation of the contracts, Poczta Polska spent more than 66 million PLN, on various contracts (Dzwonek), which, of course, exposed public finances to a very large extent to depletion. I have a request to you, President NIK, to inform the High House and citizens, whether imposing such obligations on the Polish Post could lead to turbulence in terms of the financial stability of this company. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u70	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u71	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the 21st century, in front of the whole world in the middle of Europe, in Poland, high officials trampled on the constitution, trampled on the law, stole tens of millions of zlotys. [[Applause]] They destroyed the trust of Poles in the rule of law. All this by way of one of the most important elections: elections for the President of the Republic. It all happened. If it weren't for the NIK report and the NIK reviewers, who for the first time maybe - or from this they started, and now they will - without regard to any personal and party interests, showed the cons and lies of this power, perhaps we would have forgotten about it. Mr. D.A. forgot. The D.A. doesn't see any reports of a crime. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But luckily we still have an independent NIK. And let me put it this way: until now, I knew that we were ruled by crooks, liars, and some who don't respect public money, and now I see cowards rule us. [[Applause]] [[And thieves.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u72	Thank you very much, Member. Now the question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Senyszyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Fortunately, envelope elections didn't work out. They were an unimaginable financial scam, but above all they were supposed to be a political scam. It's a good thing that the NIK controlled these elections and announced the results, but the future is the most important thing. That's why what's important is that the president has shown that you can break up with the PiS leash. This is a great example, especially for the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, whom I call from this stand to break up with the PiS leash and to become independent. Unfortunately, you now have a Vice President, Commissioner Pisovsky, who is preventing control of the Justice Fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How are you gonna deal with that, but the controllers are gonna do it too? It's about a scam with the Justice Fund, which is happening and which is financially much bigger than an envelope scam. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u74	Thank you very much, Member. The question will be asked by Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! The information presented by the President of the NIK shows a situation which is entirely unacceptable from the point of view of the rule of law. These are the ethical standards of those who hold state positions. And here are examples: the Swedish Minister of Communication employed domestic help in black - she had to resign. The German minister resigned because of a keg of beer he got for his daughter's wedding, and in the government of Donald Tusk, the minister resigned because of the watch. Today, we have a prime minister and a deputy prime minister in the government who, contrary to the law, have distributed a great amount of public money and have caused considerable damage. I wonder how long they would have been employed in a normal company after such financial decisions. So I have a rhetorical question to the absent Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and to the absent Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin: If you so often invoke your ethical principles (The Bell), criticizing others, then when will you resign? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u76	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Dariusz Joński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Everyone wonders where Prime Minister Morawiecki is. He's not at a medical meeting who's been asking for a meeting for days, he's not in such an important discussion. I'm sure he talked nicely about football with the president of the Polish Football Association. But why should he be here during this debate? For a simple reason: firstly, someone committed a crime, and secondly, Prime Minister Morawiecki illegally spent more than 70 million of our money - not PiS-owskie, our money. Of course, in every democratic country, if a constitutional body such as NIK makes a notification to the prosecutor's office as Prime Minister, the Prime Minister resigns. It's obvious. But in the PiS state and in this conflict of interest, that the Attorney General is directly subject to the Prime Minister on whom the request is made, of course this is not happening. One of the members of the PiS following the request of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the Moravian Prime Minister [[♪ The bell ♪]] He said it was pea pounding against the wall. I agree. Until then. Until that power changes. And I am absolutely convinced that this time the president, the next president, will no longer pardon these people. A brief question to President Banasia - this is quite important, important, because it may supplement the request for a Court of State for Prime Minister Morawiecki - when you present reports from the following checks: control of Ostrołęka, control of temporary hospitals, with particular attention to the hospital in Wrocław, control of purchases of COVID, respirators, masks, clinch, control of the Justice Fund [[Applause]] and control of Polish sewing houses. I could have mentioned it for so long, another one we're putting in to the Supreme Board of Control. Question is, when are we going to hear these reports? [[Investment fund...]] Because we would like to apply for a committee of inquiry, and in the future for the Court of State for Prime Minister Morawiecki. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u78	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Waldy Dzikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The correspondence elections were introduced in 2011 into the electoral code in order to increase the catalogue of voting opportunities, especially for people with disabilities, and later, by updating this code, we introduced their universality. The PiS has always opposed correspondence choices, considering them unnecessary and unnecessaryly brought into the electoral code and the electoral process itself. During his term of office, when he amended the electoral code, he practically eliminated correspondence elections. Through his actions in the presidential election, he actually ridiculed this institution, breaking the law along the way, breaking the law, breaking the constitution, breaking the law on the protection of personal data and the electoral code itself. Therefore, I ask the Prime Minister: answer directly to the allegations made by an independent body (The Bell), which is the Supreme Audit Chamber. I ask that he tell the High House directly whether he has violated the law by exposing the state budget to 70 million and to himself and his officials. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u80	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Artur Łącki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! You, Mr President, with your Supreme Audit Office, have made proposals to the prosecutor's office on the suspicion of a crime, now we know that, in fact, in the case of a crime committed by the four most important or almost most important civil servants - Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, his Minister Dworczyk, Minister Sasin and Minister Kaminski. In any other democratic state of law, if such a proposal were to come from such an institution, a machine of justice would start, it would start a circle. Sometimes slower, sometimes faster, but it would move, no one would have the right to stop it. After a while, it would have ended with a court decision, maybe even acquittal, but the procedure would have ended. What's going on with us? There's nothing going on here. The Attorney General - the Minister of Justice (The Bell) does nothing, rejects this case. I'm asking if we're still living in a democratic state of law. [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: A long time ago...]] I'm asking the Minister of Justice if he realizes that he's sitting next to the four major actors of this scam on the jury of the defendants as the one who guards them in every way. Minister Ziobro, I have a question: Are we still living in a democratic state of law... [[Voice from the room: We're dead.]] ...in Russian or Central Asian oligarchy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u82	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mariusz Witczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Free elections assassination This is an attempt on democracy and this is an attempt on functioning in terms of Western civilization of our country. We all know that knee pushing so-called. envelope elections took place only so that Andrzej Duda was elected President of Poland. In the Seym Couluars there was a rumbling about discussions inside the PiS and the United Right Camp, as Jarosław Kaczyński forced Prime Minister Morawiecki to make such decisions. And I want to tell you that this power, which is not here today in government benches, feels unpunished as long as it exercises power. So imagine what this authority will do with the forthcoming elections in 2023 to maintain this power, or to maintain impunity. In the light of the NIK report, there are people sitting here (the bell) who will have very serious consequences and who will in future be subject to legal sanctions. And I wanted to end by asking you about public money spent on public television. I know it's hard for NIK to control TVP, but if we look at it in financial terms... The point is that the state budget transfers billions of zlotys to the operation of TVP, and TVP participates in favoring PiS politicians, as was the case with the presidential election, and it is highly likely that thanks to this institution, Andrzej Duda was elected president because Rafał Trzaskowski was discredited and favored - in financial terms - Andrzej Duda. This can be converted into millions of zlotys. This favoritism is a financial equivalent, which can be converted to the so-called. hybrid forgery, as it is said today. So I'd ask the president to think about how NIK can control the operation of TVP and these financial equivalents, which also result from the fact that the state budget grants public television. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u84	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u85	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! It's a crushing piece of information from the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber regarding the activities of the current authority. For the first time since 1989, the electoral rights of Poles have been bent by the rulers in such a gross way. The information shows how the law was broken and how, without any legal basis, public money was thrown into the mud, showing the mismanagement of a party governed by law and justice only in its name. As is well known, the Supreme Chamber of Control has sent a notice to the prosecutor's office of a legitimate crime committed by Prime Minister Morawiecki, the head of his law firm Michał Dworczyk and ministers Sasina and Kaminski. Of course, no proceedings have been initiated. Where are they today? They're hiding somewhere in the cockroaches. Mr. President! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the people responsible for the election be unpunished? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u86	Thank you very much. Now the question will be asked by Barbara Dolniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! More than PLN 70 million thrown into the mud and the lack of a person responsible for making such incorrect decisions. Over PLN 70 million thrown into the mud, which could be allocated e.g. helping people with disabilities, shortening the queue waiting for a specialist or positive, good activities in education. 70 million PLN thrown into the mud, and the prosecution refuses to initiate proceedings, while the Ministry of Justice generally informs us that there are no grounds for initiating proceedings. So today, ladies and gentlemen, governments can throw 70 million zlotys into the mud and have no consequences. So what happens when the D.A.'s office doesn't even want to conduct proceedings by refusing to initiate this procedure? I therefore have a request to the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber to give us a more detailed justification for the reasons for refusing to open proceedings before the prosecution. Why did they refuse to initiate proceedings? Why did the prosecution not want to conduct proceedings in order to explain honestly and meticulously the reasons for refusing to open proceedings when more than 70 million zlotys were thrown into the mud? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u88	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Andrzej Szewiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u89	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! Despite the lack of legal basis for decisions recommended by the Polish Post Office and the Polish Securities Printing Works, the preparation of elections for the President of the Republic of Poland in 2020 in correspondence, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the Minister of State Assets, with the approval of the Prime Minister, took steps to bring the elections to the vote, putting the Treasury at risk of losses of tens of millions of zlotys. Question: "Mr. President, will you bring the guilty to justice?" Another question. Posta Polska, without having a legal basis, requested the transfer of data from the register of PESEL to the Minister of Digitization and data from electoral censuses to the authorities of local government units, and then processed these data, which was illegal under the GDPR Act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are criminal proceedings pending in connection with these allegations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u90	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u91	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Question: "Where are they?" Where is Prime Minister Morawiecki? [[Where are they?]] [[Nobody's home.]] He's not with the nurses, he's not talking to the nurses, he's not talking to the health workers. He's not in Parliament. What did he choose? Scams? Mr. President! We are pleased with the report made available, [[Applause]] But he shows that the PiS regime has been totally and notoriously breaking the law for the past six years. No consequences. Where are they, those who spent seventy million in violation of the law? Where are they, those who committed this crime of envelope elections? Where are they, those who spent nearly 200 million on Polish sewing? No facials. Where are they, those who [[♪ The bell ♪]] Have they made available our personal data, the PiS self-governments who have broken the law? Will the President be in charge of this, too? The PiS regime has been breaking the law for the last six years. We don't have our permission. Where are those who waste our money? Where are those who stole our freedom? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u92	Thank you very much, Member. The question will now be asked by Mr Piotr Benedict Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Only the opposition is. There's no one left of the PiS right now. The rule of law is not an abstraction, it is the foundation of the Polish constitutional system and the security of citizens. It is not only the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges, but also, and perhaps above all, the observance of the law by all institutions. Isn't breaking the law, the highest law, the constitution, not taking prosecutorial action against people and institutions, e.g. on the scandal in the Financial Supervision Commission, the Heiter Ministry of Justice, about the two towers and now this current envelope scandal that we recognize? The results of the audit of the most important audit authority - the Supreme Audit Chamber, the institution where independent competent officials work - cannot be ignored by persons who have been asked to commit crimes of misrepresentation of our property. Deep contempt for the expertise of independent constitutionalists of the administrative court, the report NIK is the standard of action of the PiS. Ensuring impunity for the highest officials of the state, including the Prime Minister, is your goal. And you're surprised there are charges of violation of the rule of law? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u94	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Małgorzata German.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the NIK report clearly shows that the governing that PiS was willing to do anything to lead to the presidential elections at that time. Why did PiS care so much about this? The answer seems quite simple. The interests of its own group, the political interest of PiS is and was more important than the welfare of Poles than the welfare of the country. Unfortunately, for six years we have seen that decisions taken are political decisions, decisions in which the welfare of our own group, the political welfare of the PiS is more important to the rulers than the welfare of the country and the safety of Poles. Is it true that you knew that if the elections were held later, Mr Andrzej Duda would not be elected president? It is terrifying that the amount of almost 700 million, because such was calculated by Poczta Polska, PiS was inclined to spend at that time to achieve the political goal, not to save the lives of Poles in a pandemic. Is it true that the pressure to organize elections was so great because PiS knew he was going to be a total disaster in the fight against COVID? In Poland, the effects (the bell) of superdiece as a result of COVID is the result of your negligence, it is the result of your mismanagement, it is the result of your campaigning and organization for the strength of elections, not good and protecting Poles. That is why I probably did not get an answer in January 2020 to my interpellation. That is why today I ask: Will Prime Minister Morawiecki and all those responsible bear the consequences of breaking the law? Will the consequences be borne by the managers of the institutions involved in these elections, which have also repeatedly broken the law? Will the consequences be in the form of criminal and financial liability for the spending of PLN 133 million, over 56 million compensation for Polish Post and damage to these companies for the amount of PLN 76 million? In the legal analysis of the Prime Minister's lawyers, despite having critical legal opinions drawn up by the most important government lawyers, they explicitly warned the Prime Minister against this decision, pointed to alternative solutions and indicated that if the head of government makes such a decision, he must face criminal liability before the Court of State, the collapse of the government and personal financial responsibility. It is strange not only to me that the Prime Minister, when warned of the consequences by his own lawyer, made such a decision. This seems very irrational, so I would like to know: Are there any other documents, information, data, any notes, statements indicating the actions of others who might have been under pressure or initiate different actions? Unfortunately, this shows that the ruling PiS is willing to do everything, sell Poland, sell Poles, bring our country out of the European Union, just to stay in power and rule, and rule at all costs. If the rulers were ready to break the law and break it, will they break the law every time to stay in power? If they know that they will lose the parliamentary elections, will they be ready to break the law again? Will the elections in 2023 be fair, or will they be falsified? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u96	The question will be asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The absent Prime Minister! The devastating report by the NIK on envelope elections, excess of powers, failure to comply with obligations, breach of the GDPR, financial damage to the amount of PLN 76 million, actions outside procedures, activities outside the law - yes, dear citizens, outside the law - deprived of all rights of electoral committees. And that's all because of who? By the highest government officials, which unfortunately are not here today. They don't, because they don't have the guts. So? And nothing, no responsibility. Poles, are you okay? Are they better and worse? I ask: Where are the services, where are the authorities, where are the institutions that are chasing for exceeding powers, for throwing 76 million PLN into the mud? This money could have gone to the health care department, to those protesting nurses today, or to the (Ring) rescuers, if they had obviously been given back. Ladies and gentlemen, you are listening to me! The party business is put over the interests of the state, over the interests of the citizens. Why? For power. For power at all costs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u98	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Witold Zembaczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u99	Dear Marshal, Mr. President of the Supreme Chamber of Control! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I want to know, ask from this place: Haven't these election packages from correspondence elections been destroyed because these envelopes are used by the government to build its parliamentary majority, that these envelopes are packed with promenades of the next son, that Uncle Jojo's letters are sent to these envelopes, letters with the names of the next Misiewiczs, to companies of the Treasury, to various other authorities of the state, where you set a table for them? Haven't these envelopes from the correspondence election been destroyed because there are also promises of political corruption, as was the vote on lex TVN? And another question to the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber: When the prosecution refuses to initiate an investigation into irregularities around the envelope elections as a result of your notification (the bell), do you file a complaint against these decisions before the court? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u100	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Piotr Boris.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u101	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, What we see in the report today is the state of the envelope, the State of Law and Justice, which, as in the lens, shows how this system works in Poland. When there is no responsibility for the actions committed and decisions taken, when the Prime Minister does not count on legal bases and opinions of lawyers, deciding on illegal envelope elections, when the Prime Minister and ministers decide politically to print envelopes, to charge the state budget with more than PLN 70 million, when the state institution, which is the Polish Post, sends an invoice to the Minister of Finance with a burden on nearly PLN 70 million, when procedures are not followed when legal standards are broken, when a political decision (the bell) is more important than the interests of the state - how is this country supposed to look? Today we're all with the medics. Let's all look, let's look at those who protest today, who at the time when the Poles died, when there was a pandemic... We all demanded that these elections be moved forward so as not to lead to such an extreme situation. This government cynically made a different decision. For this decision, with enormous financial consequences, you will all pay the Court of State in the future and criminal liability. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u102	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u103	High Seym! We're witnessing an unprecedented situation. This is when the President of NIK, Mr Marian Banaś, elected by the votes of the PiS, presents a report on the so-called. The envelope elections, the violation of the constitution, the violation of the law, the spending without the legal basis of millions of zlotys, the Seym, as far as the Members of the PiS are concerned, are empty, the government benches are empty. This once again shows that for the PiS, the interests of the political party are much more important than the interests of the state and the interests of citizens. This is the first element. Ladies and gentlemen, let's imagine: if such an abuse of law could happen in a local government, not like this, let's say, one hundredth of this (the bell), these people would be in jail today. Those responsible, on the other hand, walk and smile. To the end. Mr President and Mr Controllers, serve the Republic, not the political parties. And I say it to all the servants. And thank you for having the courage to tell the truth. Because political parties are passing away, while the Republic will continue forever. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u104	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u105	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. President! Debate on the information of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the so-called. correspondence choices are certainly multifaceted. One of these threads is, in fact, the absence of any of the government benches or the PiS. This shows your attitude towards the Constitutional Authority, which is the Supreme Audit Chamber. Personally, I do not think that the President is crystal, but it seems that absolute respect must be given primarily to those who have controlled the Supreme Auditorium, who have not bowed to the pressure and to the words which have been spoken by the rulers. Another thread is that, fortunately, we still have bodies in Poland independent of the government. Such an authority shall be the Supreme Audit Chamber. Such bodies should be the Polish courts, the National Bank of Poland or the National Council of Radiophony and Television. From this report and from this information (The Bell) we heard today, it appears that there has been an incredible scam, a waste of public funds. Imagine: if any of the opposition's self-governments had spent at least 1 000. zł contrary to budgetary discipline, the next day in light of the flash would be carried out in handcuffs from his office. In the meantime, it turns out that Prime Minister Morawiecki, Minister Dworczyk, Kaminski or Sasin, and the instigator of these acts, Mr Kaczyński, at the time, bears no responsibility. I hope that this will change, and I would therefore like to ask the President: What responsibility will these public officials bear, which I mentioned just a moment ago? But I would also like to ask about the responsibility of public media, because when we talk about democratic elections, one element of these democratic elections is the impartiality of public media. I wanted to ask if the Supreme Audit Office is also conducting research in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u106	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members of the Committee for Questions is closed by Mr... [[Voice from the room: Vladimir Tomaszewski.]] ... Vladimir Tomaszewski. I am so sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a fundamental question addressed to President Banasi as well. What would happen if no action was taken to ensure that elections were held, without government action? Then there would be exactly the same criticism, that is, an uproar, that the government does not provide an opportunity for elections. President Banas is becoming the spokesperson of the opposition today. It's his choice. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] On the other hand, mostly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the envelope elections were the most secure. [[A little decency.]] Most of you have not read this law at all, also representatives of some groups on the part of the United Right - I am thinking of the Agreement here. And I would like to point out that these envelope elections actually favored the electorate of the opposition in those realities. And the proof of that (the bell) is not only the safety of these elections, and this is about all citizens, but the election of the President of the United States, Joe Biden, was guaranteed through the envelope elections. Therefore, today's debate on the part of the state has a really huge political dimension, spoils the system. Self-governments were obliged to carry out the tasks commissioned and should do so. [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] And the fact that local governments have been urged by the state to break their political position as executive authority, which has certain public tasks, is, in my opinion, a scandal. And the most important thing is that the money that goes to local governments... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mrs. Skowronska, please look objectively. The money that goes to local governments is being transferred, it is the largest at the moment, also for the service of commissioned tasks. But objectively, you have to look at it. and that the state would not be a democratic state without ensuring that elections were held, and that the government would do everything to ensure that these elections were held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u108	Thank you very much, sir. The statements made by the clubs and circles and the questions asked will now be addressed by the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control Marian Banas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, I wanted to refer to Mr Tomaszewski's last statement that President NIK is an advocate of opposition. Well, I absolutely deny it. I state that we are an independent, professional control which primarily defends the interests of the citizens of the state. And that's our job, and that's how it's gonna be, as long as I'm president. [[Applause]] As for the questions that have been asked here, and there have been a lot of them, I will briefly refer to those that we have already noted. We will address the others in writing. The question that Mr Lorek has formulated regarding the fact that no one is responding to the situation. The point was that there was an emergency situation, so I want to say that no one responds to situations such as the one that was in April 2020, but it did not exempt any authority from respect for the law, as Article is saying. 7 Constitution, according to which all authorities of the state act within the limits and on the basis of law. And that's just what we're watching, and that's what the Supreme Board of Control is for. In addition, the NIK has clearly indicated that this assessment does not refer to the purpose and validity of the correspondence choices. In addition, in the opinion of the NPRM Legal Department, alternatives to the Prime Minister's decision were presented, e.g. declaring a natural or exceptional disaster or considering changes to the Constitution. So you could have made the legal choices. And that's what it's all about. As regards Mr Ionski's question, it concerned checks in Ostrołęka and so-called. COVID control. We are in the process of monitoring and we will do our utmost to ensure that the results of the inspection are released this year. As far as the Justice Fund is concerned, I would like to tell you and I would like to assure you that in the coming weeks I will be familiar with the public opinion. We are in the process of exchanging correspondence with the Central Anti-corruption Office and we are waiting for the position of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. A refusal to take a stand will not prevent the publication of information if such an answer does not come. [[Applause]] I will refer to Mr Evening's question. As far as how much more has to be paid for the elections, the answer is extremely difficult, because the state budget is still bearing the costs, as I have already said, of storing the documents produced. At the time of completion of the inspection, the storage itself cost more than 350 thousand. Evil, what I was talking about in my speech. Since then, it has been a year and these costs continue to be incurred. The question Mr Zimoch asked. As regards possible pressure on controllers, I would like to point out that the NIK controllers have observed difficulties in obtaining the requested documents, which made the controls not easy. On the other hand, I would like to stress that, before the conference that we held at the time, to give the results of the election audit, there was a text message, an e-mail to the Delegations of the Supreme Auditorium, to the headquarters, that my son allegedly wanted to commit suicide, so you should assess for yourself whether there was any pressure here or not. I will refer to Mr Maximovich's question. It is clear from the comprehensive justification of the prosecution that there was no damage calculated by NIK in its assessment, which we cannot agree with as NIK. The amounts spent on correspondence elections were considerable, reaching almost PLN 57 million, of which Polish Post has not recovered PLN 18 million to this day, as I said, and PWPW - nearly PLN 1.5 million. Moreover, the prosecution did not go to any trouble to carry out evidence related to the content of the notification. And like I said, we're going to file a complaint against a court order refusing to initiate proceedings that have affected us. Mr Wieczorek. As regards final settlements with PWPW, by post, they were financed on the basis of the revision of the COVID Act of 1 September 2020 and were covered by the budget of the National Election Office, i.e. by citizens' money. Mr Koperski. The criminal liability is linked to the order of charge and depends on the decision of the prosecution and the court. In our view, those who have taken decisions - and the results of the audit have been indicated - may be held responsible, as also clearly indicated by the legal opinion of the PKRM and the Public Prosecutor General. The costs for everything, as I said, were ultimately borne by the taxpayer, namely us, all citizens. I am referring to Mr Honourable's question. The NIK in the notice addressed to the prosecutor's office in the case of Polish Post pointed to a breach of the GDPR rules and we are waiting for an answer from the prosecutor's office. We did not control the role of Prime Minister Kaczyński, because he was not formally involved in the election preparation process and there is no confirmation in the documents that he played such a role. I will also refer to Mr Tomaszewski's question. NIK's employees were called to the DA's office to make an oral notification of the possibility of committing a crime. On 9 September this year. NIK received a decision to refuse to open an investigation in connection with notifications concerning PWPW and Polish Post, and as I said, NIK will challenge this decision. And I also refer to Mr Tomaszewski's question. NIK's employees were called to the prosecution's office to make an oral notice and, as I said, received a decision from the prosecutor's office not to initiate an investigation, so we will file a complaint here because of this order. I will refer to Mr Braun's question. One legal opinion of 16 April 2020 was concluded on 16 April 2020 with an employee of the Warsaw Administration Axiology Seminar, the Institute of Law of the Academy of War Art and was sent in writing that day, after the Prime Minister's decision. Further legal opinions were issued almost a month after the Prime Minister's decision, i.e. on 10 May 2020 by Prof. Mark Szydła. Further legal opinions were also issued after 10 May 2020. But as I said, for us as the Supreme Chamber of Control, the most important were the opinions of the Legal Department - after all, the people who work in this department are professional and deserved - and of course also the opinion of the Attorney General. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! So much for what I said. As for the others, we will answer you in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u110	Thank you very much, President. The Supreme Audit Chamber for answering the questions asked and for declaring that a written answer will be given to those questions which require a deeper answer. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm accept the information of the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control about irregularities detected by the Supreme Chamber of Control in the activities undertaken by public authorities and institutions in connection with the organisation or preparation of universal elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered on 10 May 2020 using correspondence votes - for information. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Information from the Minister of Health on the organisation of the National Vaccination Programme with an increased number of vaccine supplies and information on the doses that have been disposed of. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Anna Goławska, to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u111	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We have been talking for months about how important vaccination is to combat the epidemic. This is a subject that is raised by all health organisations, by all those who are aware that this is the only possible way to ensure the safety of society. We have new disease rates today. There are 767 people diagnosed, which means we have almost 200 additional cases compared to yesterday. We're getting close in big steps to $1,000. patients a day, so we see how important it is to use vaccination, and how important it is to have as many people vaccinated. From the start of vaccination of all infected individuals, only 0.8% are persons who have been fully vaccinated. So you can see that it is very important to take the vaccine and be safe. The course of the disease in vaccinated individuals is mild and does not require hospitalisation. Excuse me, Minister. Can you please keep this photo session down there? [[Voice from the room: Sorry.]] Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Anna Goławska: You can also see this in the statistics from today. Well, in Lublin Voivodeship there are most people infected, and this is also the province with the smallest number of people vaccinated. It is a voivodship which is in third place from the end among all voivodships. So you can see how important vaccination is. Poland has purchased a total of over 99 million vaccines from companies such as AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson, CureVac, Pfizer and Moderna. So far, nearly 60 million doses of vaccines have been delivered to Poland, so far 36.77 million doses have been vaccinated, of which 19.1 million people have received full vaccination, which accounts for almost 50% population. The highest number of people fully vaccinated above 52% are in Mazowieckie, Wielkopolskie and Pomorskie voivodships. The least full doses were accepted in the Podkarpackie Voivodship - 36,7% , Podlaskie - 40.36% and Lublin - 42,68%. Vaccinations are carried out among persons from 12 years of age. On average, 34.4% are vaccinated in the whole country. students aged 12 to 18. The level of implantation is based on age. At the age of 12, almost 22% were vaccinated today. children, mostly in Mazowieckie Voivodship, least in Podkarpackie. At the age of 13, we are over 27% vaccinated. And here, similarly, mostly in the Mazowieckie voivodship, least in Podkarpackie. The 14-year-olds we've been vaccinated are 31.5%. , 15-year-olds - 35,18% 16-year-olds - over 40%, 17-year-olds over 43% And 18-year-olds almost 46.5%. So you can see that the older people are, the more likely they are to receive vaccination, which is probably the result of their autonomous decision rather than their parents. Individuals who have been vaccinated receive a COVID certificate, which is such a declaration, that they are safe. This certificate is also helpful when travelling. Since 1 June, almost 14 million certificates have been issued, of which more than 13 million have been issued on the basis of vaccination, over 235 thousand. on the basis of a negative test result and almost 500,000. on the basis of recovery in patients who have been diagnosed with a positive PCR test. Currently, the number of people who are willing to vaccinate is decreasing. And here's a request to everyone who hasn't done it yet to go to the nearest vaccination point. Today you can carry out the vaccination without dating. You can take the vaccine at any point of vaccination. You can use vaccinations organized in pharmacies, during various festivals such as harvest festivals, festivals, all sports events. You can also use the so-called. The MJS that can come to the place of residence, so the availability of vaccines is very common and the possibility of vaccination is very much facilitated. We strongly encourage you to continue to report and use vaccination. Since December 2020, campaigns have been launched to inform that vaccination is necessary and justified, that vaccines are safe, that we are safe as a result of vaccination. The campaign lasts with media participation, including more than 100 athletes. Information was provided in more than 145 radio and television stations. There were articles on vaccination. We have published over 200 press titles, including over 400 publications. There's been over 10,500. the issue of information spots. More than 4.5 million spots were released in Internet radios and over 80,000. promotional spots. We also ran an information and promotional campaign on social media. We started working with 30 influencers to reach out to the youngest. The National Vaccination Program Lottery has been launched. Today more than 4 million people have expressed their willingness to participate in the lottery. We run promotional campaigns in schools for teachers, parents and students. We encourage schools to organise vaccinations in institutions. Students can come for vaccinations with parents, carers, or family members. They were sent to citizens twice to provide information booklets containing a number of information on vaccine safety and the importance of vaccination. As a result of the information campaign, after the first three months, the number of volunteers to be vaccinated increased by more than 30 percentage points and exceeded 70%. people who are willing to receive vaccination in a group of persons who were then able to carry out vaccinations. As I mentioned earlier, we have launched various forms of vaccination: exit vaccination points, which are currently active 116 and which serve people unable to reach vaccination points themselves, universal vaccination points that have been launched in sports halls, stadiums, showrooms where vaccinations could be carried out within a short period of time, currently such active points are 590, drive-thru points where you can arrive by car and inoculate yourself without the need to get out of the car or walk, mobile vaccination units where medical professionals, either alone or in cooperation with vaccination points, have reached with the vaccines taken to those who have expressed their willingness to inoculate themselves. We have also opened vaccination points in commercial galleries, currently there are 16 such points. Vaccination points are organized at various concerts, festivals, fairs, churches - at least 10 such vaccination campaigns in voivodships took place with the participation of churches. Volunteer firefighters were also involved in the vaccination campaign, which encouraged the nearest population to immunize, as well as the rural hostel circles involved in the organisation of vaccinations. We started vaccinations in pharmacies - at this point there are 712 pharmacies willing to carry out vaccinations against COVID. We also have touring vaccination sites that, in addition to vaccination, take informational, educational measures - currently there are 287 of these OPS. Since the start of the vaccination campaign, we've been fighting disinformation, fake news, anti-vaccines all the time. An intervention team was set up at the Government Information Centre, which identifies and responds to all entries online, on social media. We have launched a special form on the website, through which we can report disturbing information provided by anti-vaccines. Of course, we also carry out a number of other activities, including reporting to law enforcement authorities of cases of attacks on vaccination points or certificates without prior vaccination or false certification. It is worth noting that Poland has also committed itself to helping other countries, because we have enough vaccines to share them with countries that lack them. We conduct such activities in the form of resales or donations. So far, we've passed on approx. 7 million doses of vaccines, e.g. to Taiwan, Australia, Kenya, Vietnam, Norway or Spain. As far as lost doses of vaccines are concerned, 433 020 doses of vaccines were lost at 13 September, i.e. less than 1% vaccines delivered to Poland, the most common reason for losing doses is insufficient number of patients. Some patients simply sign up for vaccination and do not reach vaccination points, which is problematic especially for smaller vaccination centres that are unable to invite someone else to vaccination. Thank you very much. [[A lot.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u112	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and three minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Czesław Hoca to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u113	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! It has been my honor to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the organisation of the National Vaccination Programme. The vaccine, alongside antibiotics, is the greatest achievement of modern medicine - there is no more powerful and effective weapon against the attack of infectious diseases. Vaccines are a blessing, an investment in the health and health of the nation. Currently in Poland we have made 36 775 thousand. vaccination, of which the first dose - 19 550 thousand, the second dose - 17 228 thousand. There are 19 124 thousand fully vaccinated in Poland. persons. The level of vaccination in Poland is 50%. Given a few facts, it's a satisfactory result. Firstly, in the age group above 70 years of age, i.e. where there is the highest risk of complications of the disease, the level of vaccination is above 80%, which means that in this age group we have a natural barrier. Secondly, almost 10 million doses are secured in storage for the second dose, so the number of vaccinated will soon increase. Thirdly, the culture of influenza vaccination in Poland compared to European countries is dramatically low. In recent years, only 4.12% of the last season against influenza have been vaccinated. , and should be - according to WHO - over 75% when it comes to seniors. Therefore, the current state of vaccination against COVID-19 is already an achievement and should tune optimisticly in the near term. Fourthly, we need to remember about a solid, 2.5 million-dollar group of healthy people. Finally, fifthly, the Sejm provided legal protection for all persons organising vaccination centres against COVID-19. For violation of the immunity of these persons, even up to 3 years of imprisonment may be punishable. High Seym! It's a question of the dose that's been recycled. So far, 392 thousand have been disposed of. doses, i.e. about 1.1%. Is that a lot or a little? This is the 2017 World Health Organisation document, which provides standards for acceptable rates of vaccine disposal, which correspond to the number of doses per vial. Thus, for a vial with one dose of the standard in routine vaccinations is a loss of 5% materials, in the case of vials containing two or five doses, 10% loss , i.e. loss level of 1,1% Compared to WHO standards, we are low, but we should strive to ensure that the level of disposal is as low as possible. High Seym! The issue of information campaigns, promotions, education and the organisation of vaccination centres. In our opinion, it's done. very professionally, widely available, multifaceted, also in terms of stationary and mobile vaccination points, which are very many and which are waiting for volunteers to be vaccinated. As a result, vaccinations against COVID-19 are currently waiting for individuals who, even with enthusiasm, reach any person who wishes to inoculate. High Seym! Today's report is 767 cases and 21 deaths, so the fourth wave of evil has arrived. Hence, a heartfelt request and a fervent appeal to all those who have not yet been vaccinated: let us, Poles, be wise against harm. Let us be responsible to family and loved ones and to society. True, personal freedom is paramount, but let us also remember that every human's freedom ends where the freedom of another human being begins. Also a burning appeal to the honourable opposition: in the war with the virus SARS-CoV-2 be together, shoulder to shoulder. Coronavirus attacks everyone, doesn't distinguish political options, that's our common cause. In this place warm, beautiful thanks to all medical staff and health care professionals, pharmacists and all kinds of uniformed services, troops, including territorials, police, State Volunteer Fire Service, Border Guard, rural hostels, non-governmental organizations. Special and immense thanks to Minister Michał Dworczyk and Minister Adam Niedzielski for the professionally prepared National Program of Vaccination, for decisions that are often very difficult, but courageous and effective, coming closer to the goal - to gain collective immunity and a desire to return to normality. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The whole of Estonia could be vaccinated. Talk to Kowalski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u114	Thank you very much for presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. And now Mr Rajmund Miller will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. I apologize at the same time for this mistake.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u115	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform Club to restate our position on the information presented by the Minister of Health. Very broad information, very many facts, and we have a duty not to say... Of course, about vaccinations and the quality of vaccinations, too, but today we have to assess the action, today we have to assess the ministry's performance. The report shows the next disaster, the Ministry's next indulgence in the prevention of COVID-19 infections and vaccination against the virus. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at 26th place in Europe for 42 countries evaluated in terms of vaccination. We have fallen by 13 places in the last two months, and the Czech Republic and Hungary are ahead of us. Ladies and gentlemen. In order to achieve collective immunity, we need to have about 70.70% implanted. population, meanwhile we have 50%, which poses a serious threat to the return of the pandemic wave. And that's what's happening today. Look at you, the minister was talking about the disease. Where are mostly these diseases? On the east wall, it's Lublin, it's Podlaskie, it's Małopolskie. Today we've got patients getting sick and dying. What did the ministry do, what did the government do? Well, today we have the results of what they did, despite what they say. 2 billion PLN is spent annually on state television, which should have a public and social function. There is not much information on this state television about the prevention of COVID, about the information about the vaccine. Because we have to remember that those who are the enemy of the vaccine, we will not inoculate, but the duty of television, the duty of the government and the ministry is to convince people who have no knowledge. [[Applause]] We haven't found any information about the fact that the vaccine is safe, that the side effects are rare, and if they are, they're really not dangerous to the patient, and the very dangerous symptoms are prodil. To this day, no compensation fund has been set up to ensure the safety of patients with the most serious complications following vaccinations. Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about the promotion of vaccines, the type of officials - I'm sorry, Minister - Minister or Deputy Minister - will not have a greater impact on the opinion of the public. I'm asking. Prime Minister Morawiecki drives today with a campaign on Polish Load, which constantly changes and has no money for it. Then where is Prime Minister Morawiecki? He should be on the east wall today because that's where the PiS voters are. Why doesn't anyone convince that vaccinations are safe? Ladies and gentlemen, President Duda's fatal statements are, after all, statements that clearly discouraged people from vaccination. And finally, where is President Kaczyński? It's his constituents on the east wall. I haven't heard a single statement from the president. [[Applause]] on the need for vaccination and on the fact that vaccination should be. The next action that... So this whole information campaign is being run, but it's being run badly and ineffectively, because, ladies and gentlemen, we're going out on the street and what do we see? We can see the banner with the sign: the last line. Would any of you like to inoculate yourself, seeing that we're on the last line? Why? When we're on the last line, we don't get vaccinated, do we? So what if there are handsome actors and other celebrities out there? A pointless campaign, meaninglessly imaginary. I'm gonna go back to the news and the media. 2 billion PLN for state television, which does nothing in this respect. [[Obsessive, that's obsessive.]] Ladies and gentlemen, then you have Radio Maryja. Mr. Rydzyk has received PLN 325 million from the PiS government in the last 5 years. Have you heard on Radio Maryja to promote vaccinations? No. Ladies and gentlemen, on the last pilgrimage in Częstochowa, Mr Rydzyk became a patron saint of non-vaccines, praises there people who do not vaccinate. So how are we supposed to achieve positive results when it comes to vaccinations? How are we supposed to achieve results if this government finances - I am talking about Minister Łapinski - the National Institute of Liberty, which places anti-vaccine content on websites? I mean, this is paranoid. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And finally, ladies and gentlemen, there is no effective response to anti-vaccines. I think you're scared of them, 'cause I think they're gonna be your constituents. There are no consequences. We haven't heard... about any research. What are these anti-vaccines doing? There aren't any. Last time I left my Nysa to Opole, there were two disgusting anti-vaccine billboards at the entrance to Opole. [[Voice from the room: We know...]] [[We have more disgusting - eight stars.]] Mr President, I did not disturb you. Please don't disturb me. Allow the Member to speak. Please, sir, you are speaking. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid it will end the way it did in the first wave of pandemic. The government had information already in December from intelligence services that there would be a pandemic. In January, Prime Minister Morawiecki told us that there would probably be a pandemic. We requested it in Art mode. 152 convening of the Health Commission, which was only convened on 27 February. On March 3 here, in this bleacher, Prime Minister Morawiecki said that everything is safe, everything is assured. Ladies and gentlemen, on 3 March, there were two laboratories performing tests throughout Poland. By March 3, 500 tests were performed. It was as a result of this government's indignity that a similar action like today, disregarding what is happening, introduced a state of... Not even an emergency was introduced, only a lockdown was introduced, and what are the effects of lockdown for citizens, for entrepreneurs and for the economy, today we know best. Ladies and gentlemen! We assess strongly negative actions as insufficient, as disregarding the health and safety of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński will speak on behalf of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u117	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In her speech, the Minister confirmed that the entire government, including the Prime Minister, reminds Jasi of old school jokes, who constantly studied and learned, but never learned and did not do his job properly. So what if the report throws millions if the government hasn't done a clear social task? And the social task was: to achieve population immunity, it is about 80% of vaccinated Poles. In the fight against the pandemic, the government received all legal, organisational and financial instruments, and on many medical issues - also support for the Seym opposition. Members of the Left also made various interpellations and served with counsel, but our remarks reflected from the government like peas from the wall. Effect? Today, according to your information, the minister of vaccination is only 50%. residents of our homeland, that is the risk that we can forget about population resistance in Poland. It is terrifying that within 2 months Poland has fallen by as many as 13 positions in the ranking of countries with the highest percentage of vaccinateds. We are ahead of the countries of old Europe plus the Czech Republic, Lithuania and Hungary. However, apparently European ministers and politicians in these countries worked during their holidays. Meanwhile, we saw ours in Spain, in Bieszczady or in the Hel Peninsula, not at work. [[And in Peru.]] If you wish to speak, please subscribe to the questions. [[Applause]] It is difficult to convince citizens to vaccinate when they have two faces in this regard: one for propaganda and the other, Mr President, for the use of their electorate. But I'll get to that. [[Bravo!]] On the basis of public speeches on the one hand by the President and on the other hand by the Prime Minister, we learned about the fact that the fish is breaking down from the head in such cases too. I'm not gonna quote that, but there are historical speeches under the motto: we're safe, the virus is gone. In the case of the Left, our entire club is vaccinated and our entire club personally promotes vaccinations, but, sir, you have a chance to answer questions about how many Members and Members of the PiS are vaccinated. You also have a chance to answer what you did with the anti-vaccine movement at your club, what you did with those who promote the anti-vaccine movement. It is also difficult to encourage vaccination of those less convinced if they see national chaos and mocking lawmaking instead of the system. Thanks to the fact that they are still independent from the government of the media, Poles saw that during the events of public procurement and supply during the pandemic, the social business of COVID bloomed. They saw the incompetence of the officials and the shaming of millions for unenforced services. They saw big planes arriving from China unfortunately air and masks without certificates. They also saw the Prime Minister and other politicians languishing on these arrivals. We are surprised how stubbornly the government is working to discourage Poles from themselves and towards its COVID policy. That's why we're asking. Why is the government so indulgent in anti-vaccines, and so little support for promoting vaccinations of doctors and epidemiologists? Why is government funding granted by the National Freedom Institute financed by the operation of a portal spreading lies about vaccinations and slandering the work of doctors? Why doesn't the Minister of Education protect school heads who are scared of e-mails for organising vaccinations? Why doesn't the Minister of Health intervene when religious fanatics with rosaries in their hands pray before the Ministry to stop using abortion-infected vaccines? Why did the government not use bishops, parish priests, the media group of Rydzyk's father and other ecclesiastical media to promote vaccination? Why is Zamość's arsonist still out there? In the streets of our cities, banners say that we are at the end of the road when it comes to vaccination (the bell). Statistically, that's not true. That's why we're asking the Prime Minister if it's 50.5%. You're sure that's the end of government options? In emergency situations, extraordinary action is needed. That is why Members of the Left appeal to President Andrzej Duda, to the Prime Minister and to all the Deputy Prime Ministers: apply yourselves, gentlemen, personally to the promotion of the action and become the faces of the national vaccination programme. You have your electorate. You have, ladies and gentlemen, an obligation to this electorate. Maybe that's how you're gonna save somebody's life. I also appeal to bishops, priests of all churches and religious unions in Poland: help the government and join in the promotion of vaccination. Saving health and life is also your social responsibility. And personally on behalf of the club, I appeal to President Kaczyński. President Kaczyński, no one has seen in Poland that you, as Deputy Prime Minister responsible for the security of Poles, called for the vaccination of Poles. President Kaczyński, take this step, appeal to the Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The vaccination system in Poland is our common cause, all political forces, not only PiS, which is formally responsible for this, but also PSL, Platforms, Lefts, all political forces. We are simply in the same cart, but this does not mean that we cannot be critical of what is happening in Poland today, on the contrary, we should present our own reasons and ways of improving the vaccination system in Poland for one very serious reason: vaccination is not a private matter, because it is a matter of public health. It's about our security together. Let us remember that not everyone in Poland can inoculate themselves, for example because of age, but because others do not inoculate themselves, they are also at risk. From the very beginning, the PiS error in the vaccination system was centralisation of the entire vaccination system. The strategy presented by the government was an ordinary information leaflet, which caused a mess with the order of vaccination, and then the issue concerned a mess with the vaccinations of 40-year-olds. There's been a lot of turbulence. The government could not communicate with professionals, but also with the opposition on the common approach to this strategy, which had to be absolutely national. She was only by name, like most government documents, and in fact we as the opposition, in consultation with experts in this field, were all excluded from this strategy. When the real crisis in the vaccination system came, we were just invited. Of course, my club of the Polish Coalition - PSL participated in this. Anyway, it couldn't have been any different. Our leader is a doctor, a doctor of medical sciences, a person who was one of the first to inoculate in Poland. And we have presented, also on behalf of the experts mentioned above, important solutions concerning, among others. vaccination in pharmacies, extension of the range of people who are and are eligible, and vaccination. And in fact, then these vaccinations started to go out of the hoof - also because these activities were decentralized. But, I think what we can do for the future is important. First case - President of the Republic of Poland. Unfortunately, the map of President Andrzej Duda's support coincides with the white stains on vaccination. The President, instead of a passive attitude, should go to Poland and promote vaccinations. Unfortunately, the potential of the President's office has been wasted. President Andrzej Duda is hurting his speech about vaccination just as much as the Confederation. He's gotta change it, and he's gotta start with it. As from the highest office. Second thing - Catholic Church. Here, as with President Duda, the map of the highest participation in religious practices coincides with the white stains of vaccination. My leader, the leader of the Polish Coalition, PSL, sent a letter to the episcopate. And did such a letter or meeting be arranged by the President, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health? Has she met the joint committee of government and episcopate on this matter? I know the cases of several bishops and I honor them - they started this action without agreement in the episcopate. Some parish priests have also started this action and praise them for it, and we must follow the example of it. However, vaccinations should take place in every parish, because the Catholic Church in Poland is a huge force. And the fact that the government can't take advantage of it, and it only wants to benefit when the elections are coming, that's a big, big oversight. And the Sejm. Let's start with each other. Who's been vaccinated with us? Who promotes vaccinations? I'm COVID certified. I believe that any person who wishes to enter this House should present such a certificate. [[Applause]] I've been to many places in Poland. I don't know why I printed it - he, as you can see, is very worn out, but not from checking. Nobody in Poland has ever checked this certificate - either at the airport or at the swimming pool or at any restaurant anywhere. I do not know why it was created, since it is not respected in Poland. [[And abroad everywhere.]] And we should start, because probably the government at some point, since this fourth wave is coming, it's gonna start coming around. I believe that we should start with this - neither the Council of Ministers nor the Sejm meeting - until such a certificate is generated. [[Applause]] The same with regard to the Sejmika (Dzwonek), about the local government. Local government in Poland is a huge force and can help with vaccinations. If vaccinations were decentralised, today we would have a completely different result than we have, and we have a result compromising our position in Europe. And as I hear about some of the presidents of the Seym health committee, where PiS rules, and their social media entries, which do not encourage, to say gently, vaccination, I'm devastated. Especially if they're people connected to the medical world. With regard to the role of ministries, I will skip the Ministry of Health here, but the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Agriculture, Sport... There are mass sports events. How? They promote vaccinations? Is there anybody in there who's making the announcements? Is there any way to inoculate? The Ministry of Agriculture mentioned - after all, the holiday period was a beautiful opportunity to vaccinate people on every harvest, festivals, food promotions. And it wasn't. And one last thing-- anti-vaccines. I think they have the government's quiet permission. What they're doing. [[Applause]] These anti-vaccines call for vengeance to heaven - what happened in Grodzisk, Zamość, but also in Karpacz at the Economic Forum. We were also attacked by this rude group, and the police were standing next to us with their hands in their pockets. There was no response. Today I am asking the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration whether he is conducting an investigation into these issues. Not just us politicians, but all the guests of that economic event were challenged by the worst. That's where the invectives of the heaviest caliber fell. After all, every policeman in every city responds to every challenge, you get a ticket for it, and there the names go to everyone and no one responds. I demand the Minister to answer this question in writing. What were the police doing there at the time? Especially since there were people under attack who just got the credit for the vaccination. Since I'm out of time, I'll fill in the rest in my questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u120	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Braun will present the position of the Confederation's circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u121	Thank you, Marshal. God bless you again. [[Nobody's gonna help.]] I will use these short minutes to call on the marshal to discipline the Seym Services, which make it difficult for the people invited to the meeting of the two joint parliamentary teams. This meeting has been going on for several dozen minutes, but the people on the list presented earlier - despite the problematicness and arbitraryness of these procedures - and accepted by the Sejm Registry were not allowed. This is the meeting of the Joint Parliamentary Teams on the security of vaccination of children and adults and on fraud and infringements related to COVID-19. At the moment, during this meeting, the statement by Dr Zbigniew Halat, who, as head of the government health centre in previous terms, was still in the 1990s, was a practice and a responsible man. An epidemiologist also experienced in research and activities in this field abroad says that everything that is done here under the pretext of fighting a pandemic is nothing less than a medical experiment, an experiment on people. Such statements cannot be observed, listened to by invited guests to the meeting of this guest group, because today, before a few 15 minutes ago, our Parliamentary Office was informed that, in addition, the limit of presence at the meeting of the hosts was set in arbitrary terms, a limit of 5, in words: five people. I call upon your marshal, your marshal, to intervene immediately in this matter, because the Sejm office is obviously crawling with its own feet here. This is not the only situation and it is not the only procedure in which the actions and omissions of the authorities of the highest Republic are contradictory internally. Thus, a great medical experiment, and therefore criminal action. The criminal is the Minister of Disease and the sudden death of Niedziela. His co-workers, vice-ministers instigate the crime (the bell) because segregation is discrimination, and discrimination is with us, praise God, yet legally, constitutionally prohibited. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much, sir. Your time is up. [[Room voice: Bravo, bravo, Marshal!]] Thank you very much. [[Voice from the hall: Listen to the Pope. Listen to the words of the Pope, not to God.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u122	Please, Mr Wojciech Maksymowicz, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u123	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will try very hard to shorten my speech. And I'm counting on the presence of a representative of the Confederation because I wanted to introduce a few of them, too, maybe he'd learn something. It's always worth studying. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that we have so little time because we are the initiator of this discussion. The Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 already in April requested an explanation by the Minister of Health due to the loss of a thousand doses. April - a thousand was a big event. But, well, knowledge of pandemics and COVID-19 changes extremely dynamically. This is the thing I wanted to tell those who didn't know what they were doing, and they spoke and supported very questionable pseudo-authorities. What we saw a year ago becomes obsolete to the next millions of diseases and tens of thousands of dead. A year ago, we were at the threshold of the second wave. Until then, until just a year ago, until September Ub. A little over 2,000 died. persons. No one but a part of the experts expected about 73,000 to die in the next six months. Poles and Poles. 73,000. people died in six months. Then the hard work of scientists from all over the world was on an unprecedented scale to find a tool to protect the population from severe illness and death. This possibility has emerged since December 2020. Vaccines arrived in limited quantities. There was more to be accepted than supply. Production and supply gradually increased. However, in April 2020, a thousand doses were wasted, not used. At that time, as I emphasized, it was an unimaginable waste, which is why the wheel asked for an explanation from this. At the moment, it can be said that with millions of unused vaccines purchased by the government, that thousand is quite symbolic at all. The question now arises as to why the government did not use all the mechanisms available to prevent this from happening. Why has education, promotion been increased in an extraordinary and effective way? Why has public television received PLN 2 billion annually failed to perform its public service mission effectively - as has already been mentioned - to convey to the public the need for vaccination to save people for the budgetary resources received by the Sejm decision? After all, our knowledge of the disease is incomparably greater now. As long as it's December. r. doubts about testing the effects of vaccines on humans could be justified, but now it must be said out loud that there have never been vaccines better tested in medical history, in more patients. Over 5.5 billion people (The Bell) worldwide received a dose of vaccine. Nearly 6 billion people have received it. Those completely insignificant complications that occur are evidence of the safety of this. [[Applause]] I would stress that no other vaccine has been so verified. With us below 50% of the population is vaccinated with the full dose, which does not protect us from the serious effects of the fourth wave. Now we have to explain ourselves. No translation will force the conscience of those responsible for not doing everything to protect Poles from illness and death when it is already something to do. I'm sorry I missed the time, but I wanted to share one more reflection. It's so dramatic for me, a doctor: so many thousands, tens of thousands of people died and we couldn't help everyone. The next tens of thousands could die. I was going to, Marshal... I was going to suggest that we celebrate the memory of over 75,000 in a moment of silence. Dead. But I wouldn't dare, because I would offend them in front of an empty room, in the absence of such a large part of the parliamentary representation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u124	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Magdalena Sroka, the Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We heard a moment ago from a Member representing the position of the PiS Club that 50% vaccinees are satisfactory. No, that's not a satisfactory result. The vaccination agreement remains unchanged in its position. We are consistently emphasising that as many people as possible can effectively overcome the pandemic and thus prevent the need for sharpening. Obstacles, which for the Polish economy, but also for the comfort of life Poles were and will certainly be extremely burdensome. The responsibility for the success of this undertaking is largely ours, citizens, to take on ourselves, just deciding that we are going to inoculate ourselves. But the responsibility lies also with the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, the officials of the Ministry of Health. This political one rests on the Prime Minister of Mateusz Morawiecki, as well as on the Minister of Health, Minister of Sunday. Unfortunately, they are not present today, they are not with us to hold this debate. Both gentlemen showed how to fight the pandemic a year ago. We know best how decisions were made to introduce further restrictions, to close further industries. Let us not allow this as citizens. Let's make a decision to vaccinate ourselves. Today we have more than 770 cases of COVID-19. That's more than it was last year at the same time. The fourth wave has begun. We have to fight her, all of us. We therefore call on Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Minister of Health to listen to experts. Thank you, Wojtek, Professor Maximovich, for this speech. That's the kind of people we need. They need to talk about how to fight a pandemic. That's what we talked about over a year ago. They didn't want to listen to us. That is why today it is worth listening to experts in this area, not political marketing specialists, because this pandemic will not be combated. Ladies and gentlemen! One trusts more, the other trusts less. Let's set this hierarchy for ourselves. Let's just trust each other, take on this responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u126	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Sosnierz, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u127	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Case Circle, let me refer to the information submitted on vaccination. In January of this year vaccinations in Poland started dynamically. I'll give you that. This process was well prepared, which even led us to the leading positions in Europe in terms of vaccination. Unfortunately, vaccinations had to be stopped in March and April, even certain points had to be closed, due to disruptions in supplies from suppliers coordinated by the European Union. It's slowed this process down so much that we haven't returned to such a good pace. Because at first, I'll remind you, there were races for these vaccinations. This should have been used and welcomed. Actors, celebrities, they all wanted to get vaccinated. Unfortunately, the slowing down of this process in March and April has resulted in the effect we see: we have shifted to a low position in Europe. Here is the question to the Minister: Did we, at the time, first of all, draw the consequences for the suppliers who so damaged our well-growing vaccination process? Have we taken action to buy vaccines outside this entire distribution system, like this? have some European countries done? Germany, Spain, without looking at European solidarity, by saving their own nations, bought vaccines outside the limits. Second case of vaccinations. Namely, we do not really know how many people have suffered from COVID, how many people have died of COVID and how many people are immune. We move in terms of numbers that do not relate in some significant way to reality. Therefore, why didn't the government take action - this is what I asked yesterday and I would ask for a written reply - in order to understand what is the true level of resilience of the Polish society? She's obviously fading. This process should also be followed - as it decreases, changes - because it will allow important decisions to be made. Why am I talking about this? Because it can allow you to make decisions about future limitations when the fourth wave develops more strongly. Perhaps we could make such decisions as have been taken in the UK and Denmark, where any restrictions have been lifted in achieving a certain level of immunity. Perhaps this level of immunity, however, we have, just (the bell) do not know about it, because we have never thoroughly investigated the infected. Let me just remind you that immunity is acquired by vaccination, but unfortunately also by a disease that is subject to mortality. We don't have the population tested. We know how many are vaccinated, we don't know how many are immune. I ask you to do so because this can have a significant impact on decision-making regarding further restrictions on the functioning of the economy. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u128	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As first Member, Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice. One minute. There's no envoy. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We take 21st place in the 27 countries of the European Union in terms of the percentage of vaccinated people. In Portugal, 89% are vaccinated. , in Malta - over 80%, in Spain, Denmark - almost 80%. Our 51% is therefore not a satisfactory result. And the government? The government has no idea how to break the wrong trend when it comes to falling interest in vaccinations, so as not to say stagnation. There is a lack of good news and an example. But how do you build it when President Duda talks like an anti-vaccine, Prime Minister Morawiecki tells you that the virus is harmless and is in reverse, and the child's spokesperson thinks it's an experiment? I don't even want to mention any anti-vaccine Members who have invaded a child's home, or that there is no health minister or proxy for the national vaccination programme or PiS members in today's debate, because this is one big scandal. The government hung like a white flag Billboards with the slogan "We're on the last line." Announced [[♪ The bell ♪]] A lottery where winning history is hard to look for. And there are anti-vaccines on the net. What happens online, ladies and gentlemen, is terrifying, anti-scientific. The anti-scientific content placed there is embarrassing and disinformation. And the government? The government's online activities are lacking. Because it's useless to look for a decent education there. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fight for immunity must continue, because the more vaccinated people, the more we are all protected. Today, unfortunately, the vaccine is waiting for a human. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u130	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, For 51% Poles, for me vaccination is a hope of effective protection against the coronavirus. Is today, as the government says, the fourth wave of a recurring pandemic among people diagnosed also a significant number of people who are vaccinated? What are the statistics on this? Secondly, in public space, it was said that a significant proportion of the vaccines due to a lack of vaccination have been disposed of. What number of vaccines has actually been disposed of? Within the framework of solidarity assistance, the Republic has also transferred some of the vaccines to other countries. How many of these vaccines were transferred - on a contractual basis - abroad and to what countries and for what amount (the bell) was this solidarity project implemented by the Polish government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u132	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. There's no envoy. Mr Stanisław Bukowiec, Agreement. [[I'm here.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We've got a fourth wave of Coronavirus pandemic coming up. The number of infected people increases from day to day, worryingly breaking records in relation to the same period from the previous year. The vast number of infected people are uninsulated. I have a question for the Minister: What countries have taken action to combat the misinformation proclaimed by the so-called. Anti-vaccine movements? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u134	Thank you, sir. Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! First, two reflections to the honourable opposition, which she called herself a total opposition. You took too much of Mark Twain's saying to each other. He said, "Before the truth wears shoes, the lie will go halfway around the world." You know it very well, and you're talking untruthful, nasty provocations, too. [[Voice from the hall: That's why you win the election.]] You're still falsifying reality because you know that by the time it's corrected, it's a lie that's gonna go halfway around the world. [[Voice from the room: Are you talking about vaccinations?]] So stop it, because you're having a bad time. For you, maybe it's fun and fun, and we're talking about life. [[Poland in ruins.]] Second reflection. Mark Twain said, "Don't ever explain yourself because friends don't need it, and enemies won't believe it anyway. So much for digression and reflection. [[Voice from the room: Introduction.]] I have a question for the Minister. It's about the third dose. Indeed, there are some controversial issues. [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] The Medical Council recommended that this third dose be given only to immunocompromised individuals. On the other hand, I have a question - because there are votes to give this third dose to medical staff or to other officers who are directly involved in vaccination - whether this decision is really being considered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u136	Thank you, sir. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no Minister Niedzielski, there is no Minister Dworczyk, there is no Prime Minister Morawiecki here or in the white town, but well, we are back to the topic of today's debate. Well, it's been happening lately that I don't hear that proud national vaccination program anymore. Perhaps because in these best parts of Poland he simply failed Mr Dworczyk. From all the data it appears that in the vast majority it is vaccinated, in the terminology of Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, a worse sort of Poles. A better man doesn't listen to his authority. It is strange and paradoxical that PiS's largest electorate is at the same time the most distrustful of his national vaccination programme. The problem is that vaccination is not an individual matter, especially during the pandemic and the struggle to stop it. It is an expression of mutual solidarity about life and health, and at the same time it is an expression of solidarity about the health and life of Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, put in place mechanisms that encourage and mobilize people to vaccinate, while at the same time draw consequences for those who discourage Poles from vaccination. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u138	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning of the year or at the end of last year, Poles and Poles forced a rapid rate of vaccination. The chaos that was then - I'm talking about group privileges, age, professional privileges - we're already slowly forgetting, but there was a lot of chaos then, surprisingly changing decisions, but we have reached this stage when vaccinations almost stopped. They're probably not gonna move until people start dying on a larger scale again, they're under respirators. I have a question about anti-vaccines who are organized in about 200 online groups. Power knows that very well. They publish videos, publish statements by members of the Confederation and PiS skeptical of vaccination. The state almost does nothing to them (the bell), little or almost nothing to do with aggressive behaviour, and these people, radical anti-vacillators, affect ordinary Polish and Polish people, lie and overinterpret, forgery and confuse fiction invented by themselves... Thank you very much. ...with reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u140	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u141	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! We have 767 new diseases. 50% Poles and Poles were vaccinated with two doses. My question is, what are you going to do next so that we can achieve population immunity? We are no longer interested in the words of the Minister describing history. We are interested in what you will do to effectively encourage Poles to immunize so that we can finally gain population immunity. This is a matter of our health, our lives and our state of affairs. On public television, long materials should be issued daily about how to inoculate, where points are located, materials that deceive all fake news and anti-vaccine nonsense. Andrzej Duda should come forward with a message to the nation and say: yes, I have been vaccinated. Inoculate yourselves, fellow countrymen. It's about our health. I'm not surprised you're losing a war with anti-vaccines, since the anti-vaccines are in your ranks. Start with you, the ombudsman, the MPs and messengers of your club, who are threatening vaccinations and talking about a medical experiment. It's about our lives, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u142	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u143	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government was perfectly able to carry out the promotional action of the Polish Łódź - in a moment Poles in this Polish Ład will believe. The government is unable to carry out a promotional campaign to promote vaccination. I don't believe it at all. After all, it was supposed to be that every Polish refrigerator was supposed to come out of the campaign promoting vaccinations. Meanwhile, either the Poles have bad refrigerators, because the action from these refrigerators doesn't come out, or the government hasn't done their homework on this case. I have questions for the Minister. How much did the Poles pay from the budget for previous actions promoting vaccinations? Who was the beneficiary of this action? I kindly ask that these questions be answered in writing. Also, please inform me of the costs incurred due to non-use, and by that rendering (the bell) the vaccines that our country purchased due to the failure of the vaccination programme. These vaccines haven't been used up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u144	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! The fact that the government failed in terms of vaccinations, we all know, but I would like to focus on another problem. We have quite a lot of these vaccines, we sell them to other countries, while very many countries decide about the third dose of the vaccine and do so not only for people with reduced immunity - this is the case in Poland, where for example. transplanters may be directed to a third vaccination - but also in the case of seniors, people who are more vulnerable. Therefore, the basic question arises: Is there any chance that Poles can inoculate themselves with a third dose? I mean, for example. representatives of those professional groups who had to be vaccinated with AstraZeneca, which has a slightly lower effectiveness. Studies show that this effectiveness can be significantly increased by administering a third dose of another company's vaccine, e.g. Pfizer. Next question: What about COVID passports? In the case of some vaccinated individuals, they will expire approximately in January, because (the bell) part of the vaccination was carried out in December and January. I mean the medics. What's next with people who need passports like this just to travel? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u146	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u147	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Vaccines are important and necessary, they save lives and have already saved many people. In order to save even more people, it is not enough for millions of vaccines in storage, it is not enough for volunteers to show up for vaccination. First of all, there must be medical personnel who will be vaccinated - nurses and other healthcare professionals. Where are the doctors, paramedics, nurses, midwives and other health professionals now? They're in a white town right now. They'll be there long because neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister wants to talk to them. The Minister has announced that he will never speak to doctors again. Why do we need a minister who doesn't know or understand how important it is to talk to doctors about health care problems? This leads to a disaster. It is irresponsible, arrogance of power, and failure to fulfil duties. Minister Niedzielski! You better get to work, because we're really going to have a disaster when it comes to vaccines and more than that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u148	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Iwona Hartwich, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u149	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! At first, I would like to tell the medical community that we are with them on behalf of the environment of people with disabilities and at their request. We support you very much. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen. We will not fight this pandemic by Mr Andrzej Duda, we will not fight it because he spoke about it and presented the problem of vaccination actually in a criminal way. He spoke ambiguously about it. Today, my question concerns, in particular, people with disabilities who are vaccinated with two doses. We don't hide that these are the people who are waiting for the third dose. I wanted to tell you that if necessary, I will absolutely continue to run after Mr Morawiecki and talk about the fact that these people (the Bell) need to be vaccinated first. I wanted to ask: Do you predict that people with disabilities will be vaccinated first? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u150	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to take this case a little differently, especially since I agree with everything you've said today about vaccination. Ladies and gentlemen! In the 1960s, as a little girl, I lived in Wroclaw. Those countries that don't know what I'm talking about are about to know. In the 1960s, blackpox arrived in Wrocław, real smallpox, please do not confuse it with wind. 98% The inhabitants of Wrocław were vaccinated. This is very important information. I would like all those who decide on promotion to pass on this information: 98% residents. This terrible disease for thousands of years has caused the deaths of millions of people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The World Health Organization declared in 1980 the end of this terrible blackpox. That's why I'm asking you so much to promote vaccinations so that it's like in the 1960s, where 98% were vaccinated. residents of the city. This should be done by the most important people in our country with the President in charge, especially in those counties where he received the most votes, where the least number of people are vaccinated. I'm sorry I extended it, but I wanted to express it to the end. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u152	Thank you. Please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u153	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This week, the number of COVID infections increased by 40% in Poland. Of course, the number of deaths is also increasing. This dynamic is unfortunately the same as last year, which means that we may soon have 20, 25,000. infections per day. In Poland, however, we now have 51% vaccinations. Poles. Where are the most infections and hospitalizations? Of course, where he's least vaccinated. It is about Podlaskie, Lubelskie and Podkarpackie voivodships. It's everywhere, it's in the European Union, it's in the United States. Where there are least vaccinated, there are most infections. In other countries, vaccination levels are much higher. It is Scandinavia, France, Germany, Spain, Portugal and Benelux. There's over 70% everywhere. But the rulers there are not afraid to make bold decisions. There, if you don't have a vaccination or a negative test or you're not a healer, you don't go into a restaurant, a pub, a movie. I ask: How much longer will you make such a law with us? Or are you afraid of hat, like when you brought in a British variant of coronavirus with airplanes? By delaying such a decision (the bell), you take responsibility for every disease, every death and every bankruptcy. You're doing this because you're political cowards. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Gdula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have a real question for you, a question about the reasons why people don't get vaccinated. Are there any external research work being carried out in the Ministry that could lead us to answer the question of why people don't get vaccinated? The fact that people who vote more willingly for the Law and Justice do not vaccinate is true, but I do not think that this is the perfect universal answer. If that were the case, I'd be very surprised as a sociologist. I have a request to answer that question. I think it's important. We're doing everything we can to encourage people to immunize. The Left Club shows that they're all inoculated. We promote it, but it doesn't work. We need more knowledge. I really want the Ministry to do some good research. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u156	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! September 1st, so two weeks ago, the kids went back to school. They learn in the school building, they learn in the classroom, they learn in the bench. And that's exactly how it's supposed to be. We all know what a problem it is for students, for teachers, for parents to learn remotely. We know that it reduces the level of teaching. We know it has a negative effect on children's psyche. One of the trade union representatives at the meeting of the Lublin Parliamentary Team said that remote learning and a return to remote learning would be a disaster. At the same time, we know that only vaccinations can protect us from the next wave of epidemics. We know that from history. We also know this from scientific and medical studies. I ask: Why doesn't the government take any action to convince young people and parents, show them the facts and encourage them to immunize? Why didn't you take action since June 1st, when vaccination was allowed in group 12+? Why do you constantly flirt with people who question scientific and medical research? [[♪ The bell ♪]] If schools have to switch to a remote learning system, you will be responsible for this when it comes to your negligence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u158	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! From the available sources, it is known that the lowest prognosis is on the eastern wall, where it is grossly different from the prognosis of the entire population. On the east wall, where most of your constituents are. My question is, do you have or are you creating a program for these people to encourage them to immunize? With this knowledge, and I think that each of us has it, we know that you can't force them to do the same. You're not. Your money-sharpening business is probably waiting for some kind of grant. So the question is, is there a program that we would probably agree to, so that we could finally develop a population, e.g. 500+ plus vaccine plus 500+ for these people? Because I think that's the only way we can raise this population in the east. That's the first question. And the second question we all have to ask ourselves is here, everybody. Could actions (the bell) or omissions and what President Duda said have led to the death of several thousand Poles for COVID disease, SARS-CoV-2? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u160	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Medicine is a science in which hard data and statistics govern, not beautiful words, empty promises and lying to reality. And the facts are that only 52% of Poles are fully vaccinated against COVID-19. To feel safe, we need to reach 85% Implantability. When you look at the statistics, you can see that from week to week fewer people come to vaccination. And it's largely your fault. You failed as a state, and you can't react quickly to problems. For my May interview on delays in delivery of vaccines to the POZ clinic, I only got a reply yesterday, after a few months of waiting, of course, laconic. I ask you to answer the question: What kind of action is the Minister going to take (the bell) in order to increase the privatisation of Poles, and what did you do to prepare our country for the fourth wave of the pandemic of Coronavirus? And the fact that the Minister isn't here today is unimaginable to me at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u162	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u163	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Security Committee. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You're not in this room, Mr. Minister of Health! I'd like to ask you how the fight against the coronavirus has to do with the lack of sharpening in sports facilities and schools. During the game against England, almost 60,000 sat in the stands. people without vaccination certificates, without masks. Will the Ministry cover the tightening of sporting events or at least admit only vaccinated persons? Do you have estimates of how such games affect the development of epidemics? And now education. Why is it that all schools do not have a top-down duty to measure their temperature, to make it possible to test every facility for both teachers and children? Why are there such problems with vaccination in schools? Let me remind you, we have 4.5 million students, and in a moment we will have over 1 million students. Today we had 767 infections and 21 deaths. What numbers will make you act? Instead of preventing a pandemic (the bell) you're reacting late again, preparing another six-month lockdown for us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u164	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Barbara Dolniak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u165	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Do you remember the speeches, the announcements of the Minister of Health or the Prime Minister of the Government about the Compensation Fund? How many noisy words were there in this regard? So? If you run a probe, if this fund is or isn't there, it's probably for the announcements that most people would say it is, but, ladies and gentlemen, this fund doesn't exist. There are not even provisions that form the basis for the creation of such a fund. And he's part of a positive action for those who haven't decided yet. For each security is an essential element for convincing vaccination. Only in August, ladies and gentlemen, has a draft law come in, which contains provisions on this fund. So I have a question for the Minister: Did we have to wait so long for the project to be published in this regard? Was it really that hard? Couldn't he have shown up earlier? That's one thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Two. A lot has been said about the fourth wave of pandemics and it seems that this wave has started because the number of infections is increasing. I would like to hear about the concrete examples of what you are doing in connection with the fourth wave of pandemics. Not about the propaganda activities of the government, but about the real ones to hear it here, in the Chamber of Members, but also about Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u166	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u167	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 75,000. Poles died of a pandemic. 21 people died today. These people could be alive now because we already have the opportunity to inoculate. Only the government's failure has caused you to be unable to encourage people to take the vaccines we have. And we have 60 million vaccines. The Minister says that 50% Poles are vaccinated and 70% are vaccinated shows a willingness to inoculate. That's why it's 20%. It didn't inoculate? You can't encourage them. What does public television do that got 2 billion zlotys? Every day, there should be incentives for vaccination in each information programme. Every day, the most important people in the country should be on public television (the bell) and encourage citizens to immunize. My question is: What actions will you begin to take so that the Poles will actually come out? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u168	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerzy Hardie-Douglas, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government ordered 100 million vaccines. After a few months, he collided with the situation of expiry of interest in vaccinations in Poland. Discussion on how to encourage 50% is underway Poles for vaccination. Personally, I don't think it's gonna help any more - no change in narratives, no new ads, no billboards, no appeals, no competitions. The stage is concrete. Half of Poles believe that vaccinations are harmful, that it's an experiment, that they shorten their lives, that they change our genome and such nonsense. Why is this happening? Because for a few years, PiS flirted with anti-vaccines, and you even donated anti-vaccine organizations. We have the cacophony of the right-wing politicians, some of whom fuel fear of vaccinations. The president is also involved in this with his irresponsible statements. So what should we do? What the political community, especially the PiS, doesn't want to talk about, avoiding this topic like fire. If we want to gain the necessary stud immunity, we should, like in the United States, introduce at least a partial vaccination obligation (the Bell), regardless of how uncomfortable it is for the rulers, whom the electorate largely does not want to vaccinate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u170	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Hok, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Brief question: How much was spent from the Polish budget for the purchase of hundreds, tens of millions of vaccines that were brought to Poland? Second question: How much the Polish budget lost as a result of the disposal of more than 400 thousand. vaccines that have been wasted? And how much did the Polish budget earn by reselling these vaccines to countries such as Australia, Norway, Vietnam or other countries? Second question. In the national vaccination programme there was a highly promoted vaccination project in workplaces with over 300 employees. I ask you to answer, how many workplaces have carried out these vaccinations and how many employees have been vaccinated and how many people from their families have been vaccinated. The second part of the question. The vaccinations were promoted in Polish pharmacies. How many pharmacists have taken these vaccinations? How many drugstores did this happen in? How many Polish patients, clients of these drugstores were vaccinated? Finally, such a remark after Mr Braun's speech on the medical experiment. I think the biggest medical experiment is the fact that in the Polish Parliament there is no certificate from the doctor of labour medicine (Dzwonek) about the possibility of working in the profession of parliamentarians in the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u172	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you. because we are all talking about COVID vaccinations, and I would like to raise an equally important topic - influenza vaccinations. I don't know what the Ministry is doing about it because, as we know, there were no vaccines last year. This year, people re-enrol - so that we don't repeat the same thing we did at the beginning with COVID vaccinations. People in pharmacies are now signing up for vaccines, the ministry has already ordered that only one person per vaccine, God forbid she buys two vaccines. Therefore, there is an interest in vaccinations. Of course, it won't be much of an interest, but at least those who want to inoculate should have the opportunity. Health services, hospitals and clinics kept vaccines, and no one controlled it. These vaccines have been used. If the vaccine has not been used (the bell), it has not been removed. What's it gonna be like this year? I'd like an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u175	Mrs. Marshal! I'm looking around and I'm looking for Minister Dworczyk, the government's attorney for vaccination, but he's absent, and his hearing is missing. That's too bad, 'cause he should be here. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna start with a quote: "We didn't have a vaccine last year, and the infection was the same. So can we really be glad that this is the result of vaccination or the effect that we have such and not other weather conditions? This is the season of the year. That's not what the anti-vaccine spokesman said, that's what Andrzej Duda said, which would be good for the anti-vaccine spokesperson. I have a question for the President of the Committee on Health: Do you really not see here the dependence that Andrzej Duda and PiS voters do not vaccinate? Look at the map of Poland (the bell), look at the levels of vaccination, it is not your voters who are vaccinated. Why, then, do you not take action that will force people to do so? Do you really believe that at the National Stadium, where at the match Poland - England there were 56 thousand. Fans, were they all vaccinated? Do you really believe that? Thank you very much. That's the effect of your show. [[And at the women's strike, they were all vaccinated?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u176	Please, Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u177	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There is a debate on the national vaccination programme, it would seem that the debate is about, if not the most important, one of the most important topics at the moment in Poland. It concerns not only health, life, safety, but also economic security of Poles, but in principle it concerns all issues, including issues such as education. Meanwhile, the benches of the Members of the Law and Justice are basically empty. If so, it can be concluded that you do not have one in this respect. But a lot of success, because if it weren't, you'd be proud of it. I would like to ask the Ministry what legal action it wants to take, because for now we have slightly over 50% of the vaccinated in the near future. Do you plan to engage, for example, in actions encouraging the vaccination of the Catholic Church, other religious associations? Are you planning to involve the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda? I am absolutely convinced - and I say this without any grumbling (the bell) - that for many people who are contesting the issue of vaccination today - this vote would be extremely important. One last question: Are you planning to introduce some restrictions for people who are not vaccinated? This applies, for example, to issues relating to the cost of medical treatment of those who use hospital services. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u178	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Well, the state of the case is this: we have enough vaccines against COVID, and we have more than enough in relation to the desire to inoculate ourselves, but we have a sudden shortage of vaccine for ignorance and superstition. This vaccine doesn't cost that much and requires basically only the consequences and organisational issues. I won't care about public television here, which should do it, but you can also do it in schools, in every class, you can reach out to your children and parents and provide people with knowledge. Because fear comes from ignorance, and superstition grows from ignorance. In the meantime, we're dealing with full hypocrisy. Ladies and gentlemen! A look from today: anti-vaccine victims protest loudly in front of the Sejm, police with their hands put on are standing opposite (the bell), while in the hall of the Sejm restaurant they are hosted, at the invitation, among others. Members of the PiS, these are the anti-vaccines in the number of about 20. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] They were invited and introduced by Members, and this is an illustration of the hypocrisy and true views of the PiS. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[If the police had just moved, you'd be 10,000. The cameras had...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u180	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Magdalena Filiks, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I honestly admit that this item on the agenda just stunned me today. For a moment, I even thought I missed the reconstruction of the government when I came to the debate on the information point where the Minister of Health was supposed to be. The situation in Poland is simply dramatic, it could even be said that it is deadly serious. There's a protest under the Seym, a white town. There's a huge nationwide protest of medical services. The statistics of day-to-day illness are going up, and the national vaccination program proved to be a failure. Unfortunately for this program and unfortunately for all of us, Poles, his face became President Andrzej Duda, just a fear of a needle. And in such a situation, the Minister of Health does not come to such an important debate in the Sejm, and the Parliamentary benches on the side of Law and Justice are empty. Two people. There is no one to turn to in this debate at all. Minister! I wanted to say that so far the success of the government is that we are closing the first five in the world in terms of the death rate per 100,000. persons. And that's the success of the PiS. And my question in this connection, because others have already been asked (the bell), is this: Does the government at this moment have any conversations with the Polish episcopate? This is the environment of the defenders of life, this is the environment that expresses daily concern for life. I think this is an environment that the government should have turned to a long time ago. The idea is that, according to the values that people in this environment represent and identify with, they help, they reach out to the government and help in this dramatic situation when it comes to saving lives. This is the situation where the Polish Church can help, it can reach out to Poles and Poles and promote vaccinations saving lives in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u182	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u183	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Actually, I'm sorry for your loss. Your boss sent you here for this debate and left you alone, even though this is actually the most important debate on the health and life of Poles. There is neither his nor your colleagues nor any member of your government's party. Maybe you can explain to me how it is that the national-patriotic vaccination program in Poland simply failed. How is it that in Europe, especially in Western Europe, these vaccination results are much better? Explain it to me or ask your supervisor what it's like... [[Because the opposition...]] ...that all these left-liberal governments in western Europe are getting better results when it comes to vaccination. Maybe that's where the real patriotism is. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the attitude towards vaccination in Poland at the moment is the highest measure of patriotism. You should take this to heart as much as possible because you will be accounted for by your constituents because people are dying in your districts. Minister! Last sentence. Tell Mr.Niedzielski to come to TV news tonight and tell him that 27 people in Poland died because of COVID and 26 of them were not vaccinated. Let him come every day anyway. Maybe he can convince your constituents because you're not doing anything. [[Applause]] [[These aren't our constituents.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u184	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michael Szczerba. There's no envoy. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u185	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I would also like to express my sympathy for you, because it is not you who should answer a series, tens of difficult and uncomfortable questions here. Let me add another one. If we want to act, we need to carry out analyses, synthesis, comparative analyses. The fact that the map of uninsected areas with the smallest number of vaccinated people coincides with the map of electoral preferences in both parliamentary and presidential elections is well known. But we don't know how much it overlaps with the media map. How do people learn about life and the world around them? Are these party-government media or other media? Are these the media of Fr. Rydzyk or are they Mr. Kurski? Have you, as Ministry, carried out a wide-ranging analysis that would allow action to be adapted to the facts? If the Ministry of Health has not carried out such an analysis, the question arises: Why? Since perhaps you, the Minister, are unable to answer these questions at the moment (the bell), please answer in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u186	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u187	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, One thing is certain: a vaccine has not yet been invented for populists from PiS, but we are working together with civil society on this. COVID-19 vaccine was invented, but it's a useless tool in your hands. Hence my question to the Minister: Do you, as part of the coordination of the work of the Council of Ministers, speak with the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobro, who is the Attorney General, with Minister Kaminski from the Special Services about what these ministers can do for you, for Minister Niedzielski in the fight against fake news about vaccination? Are you having conversations about how the prosecution responds to Internet alerts on fake news about vaccination? And my next question is, when are you finally going to show civil courage because I'm not going to mention honor, and you're going to introduce a vaccination obligation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The point is, the coercion device in your hands gives you a better effect, it works much better than encouragement. Only the obligation to immunize is able to raise your voters and followers to the rank of vaccinated people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u188	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u189	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, people have the right to make decisions on the basis of the information available to them. The problem is that in the case of vaccination, a large part of this information is either fake news, or even specially prepared for bad intentions. And the problem is one more thing, that in an age of omnipresent propaganda, which is characterised by the time of the rule of law and justice, it is often difficult to distinguish between what is true and what is false, but it is the power that has to provide reliable and proven information. Meanwhile, the anti-vaccine campaign, with all due respect to the Minister, is so faint that one day it will be described in textbooks how not to do so. The authorities go cunning, they get vaccinated in front of the cameras, other times they say they won't vaccinate. I'm not talking about public media anymore, because it's a shame to talk about it at all. All of this has no right to act and the consequences burden the conscience of power. I have a question, Minister, about these statistics, because they may be crucial. If the Minister were polite to present vaccinations versus non-vaccination, infections, hospital, deaths and maybe these statistics will speak, because they seem to confirm that it is worth the vaccination. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u190	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u191	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I must say that not further than yesterday we discussed exactly the same topic at the Health Committee meeting. We'll probably talk about it tomorrow, too. Not just the situation that's near the Sejm. I must say yes, ladies and gentlemen. If someone listens to this debate, one can only say with some irony: bravo, bravo, because what you are doing is the best example of what you should not do, how you should politicise the issue of vaccination, how you can discourage citizens. [[We have the right to talk.]] Just so we're clear. Different people are not vaccinated. I was actually very serious about helping people under the ventilators who were your constituents. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, your constituents. So this is totally an inadequate division. Let's think about how to convince all citizens. [[Don't do this.]] And I'm asking you all to be reasonable about this whole thing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u192	Thank you. That was the last question. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Ms Anna Goławska, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u193	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will start with information on the studies that have been carried out to verify people's preferences, why they do not want to vaccinate, and what are the factors that can encourage the population to vaccinate. The most common answers to the question of why Poles do not want to inoculate themselves were such that they fear the side effects that a new vaccine can cause. Since this is a new vaccine that has just entered the market, people are concerned that it may have some negative effects in the future, which we are, of course, dementing by showing the various results of scientific research or expert statements that deal with the subject on a daily basis. A significant number of people, over 30%, replied that in general they avoid vaccination, which shows the attitude of Poles to this subject. 11% people believe that COVID is not a serious disease. This also shows the attitude and that people really find out how important vaccination is and how dangerous this disease is, only when one of their loved ones gets sick or dies. And that's what we do in a lot of conversations. Those who have declared their willingness to immunize, the question why they have not yet been vaccinated, answer: 21% - no time, 18% - because of the disease already passed, 17% intends to vaccinate at a later date, 16% is concerned about complications, 10% because of the state of health. Over time we have also verified what the attitude towards vaccination looks like, and you can see very clearly a positive effect in the form of people who have already vaccinated themselves. From December 2020 to June 2021 52% people said it was vaccinated, where in December, you know, it was zero, in January it was 1%. As for the declarations that yes, they're definitely going to get vaccinated, it was 16% in December. , and in June 2021 we already have 9% with, of course, 52% who have confirmed that they have been vaccinated and 9% I think he's going to vaccinate himself. So this shows that over time the desire for vaccination is increasing and that there is a good chance that they will still be implemented and a significant part of Poles will be vaccinated. It's been disposed of, like I said, 433,000. vaccines and this is particularly because they have expired due to the failure of patients to receive vaccination. In 1B group, 51% are vaccinated. persons eligible for vaccination. Lottery information is published on the dedicated website: www. gov.pl/salvamisie/lotery. There you can verify how many people have received prizes. As far as the third dose is concerned, at this point we have the medical board's position that it should be given to people who have reduced immunity. These are those receiving active anticancer therapy, transplant recipients, immunosuppressants or biological therapies, stem cell transplanters who have taken place in the last 2 years, moderate to severe primary immune syndromes, HIV infection treated with high doses of corticosteroids or other medicines that may inhibit immune response, and chronic dialysis due to renal failure. So far, the third dose has been adopted by 6200 people and 121 thousand are eligible. At the moment, the Medical Council has not issued a position on older people or those working in medical institutions, but this issue is being considered, so I think we can expect a position on this in the coming days. As far as the fight against anti-vaccines is concerned, of course we are monitoring the media, we are constantly responding to any negative information. As I was saying, a team was formed at the Government Information Center, which is responding to these types of entries on an ongoing basis. Of course, we have cooperated with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration or with the Ministry of Justice in the fight against those who are aggressive with those who promote vaccinations or vaccinations. We have proposed a provision that will protect those who carry out vaccinations, not only medical workers, but all those involved, will give them the status of a public officer. These people will be protected just like public officials. Of course, in cases where we have reports of such situations, they are reported to the services, to the prosecutor's office and action is being taken in this regard. As regards the extension of the validity of EU certificates confirming vaccination, we are waiting for the European Commission's position. It should also appear in the coming days, as this subject concerns not only us and all the European Union countries, especially since the rules on EU COVID certificates have been established in the European Union and are valid in all countries. Thank you, Mrs Sekule-Szmajdzińska, for the example concerning Wrocław. I wanted to stress here that there are 64% vaccinated in Wroclaw. those entitled to this, which is also a very good example to follow. It can therefore be seen that this situation is much better in some regions. As far as actions against young people are concerned, as I mentioned, the Ministry of National Education has taken measures to inform, educate both teachers, parents and students. This has been the case since September 1. There are educational lessons, meetings with parents, information materials for parents and children are being distributed. And these actions are reflected in the figures that I presented, because the percentage of vaccinated people aged 12 and 18 years is significant, all the more so since vaccinations started with delay due to a lack of prior approval for vaccines to persons under 18 years of age, Actions to encourage vaccination shall be undertaken at all times by the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, by the Prime Minister, by the Minister of Health. The President is also making sure that as many people as possible are vaccinated. [[Are you kidding me right now? Is that funny? President?]] Apart from the fact that we are conducting information activities, we are constantly encouraging. There were also talks with the episcopate. A letter was sent to the churches. In front of churches, vaccination points are organized, both during festivities events and regular Sunday Masses. And here we see very good results. In particular, this was seen in the Podkarpackie voivodship, which started this type of activity, showed that in churches after Holy Mass a significant number of people benefited from vaccination. The statistics on vaccinated persons, the number of deaths and diseases, are published by the Ministry of Health's spokesman, so it can be verified on an ongoing basis. There was also a question about workplaces. Well, 387 workplaces have benefited from a program dedicated to workplaces. Within the framework of this programme, 345000 were sent. vaccines, which is how many people have benefited from vaccination. 712 pharmacies have entered the vaccination programme, 380 of which have been vaccinated and 60,000 have been vaccinated under this option. persons. As regards the introduction of the vaccination obligation, this option is still under consideration. We are analysing in the context of population surveys how society will receive this kind of tightening, and we are also talking to the meristors and medical professionals who advise both the Prime Minister and the Minister on the implementation of the vaccination and epidemic control process. I'll let you answer the other questions in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u194	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For today there are 19 123 432 people fully vaccinated in Poland. In addition, it is important to point to a falling trend when it comes to people who want to inoculate themselves. Compared with the initial vaccination phase against COVID-19 in Poland, there is probably no problem either with the choice of the vaccine or with the rapid timing of vaccination. Along with a decreasing number of willing opportunities to implement the plan, which assumed to catch 70 and 80% society, they're moving away. At the same time, the EMA, the European Medicines Agency, updated the list of side effects that may occur following the administration of Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca preparations. Such information further strengthens the reluctance to vaccination. I ask you to answer the question: What measures are you going to take to encourage citizens to vaccination against COVID-19? It should be pointed out that the current actions have not resulted in the desired outcome. Are you going to introduce forced vaccinations against the coronavirus? What is the minister's position when it comes to the fact that a third dose of vaccine is being administered in some countries, and it is even said at 4 o'clock?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u196	The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm accept the information of the Minister of Health on the organisation of the National Vaccination Programme with an increased number of vaccine supplies and information on the disposal of doses to be notified. If I don't hear any objection... [[Objection!]] A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the final wording of the National Plan for Reconstruction, including public consultations and proposals from the European Commission. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy of Mr Waldemar Buda to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the President of the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the question, current information on the state or content of the current National Reconstruction Plan. I understand that this is really about content. I thought this was about... The point is, at which stage we are at, because this is the subject of discussion in the context of public discourse. But the question is quite specific, it's about the content of the National Reconstruction Plan. And now that we're talking about the content of the National Reconstruction Plan, we need to get back to the beginning of the year. The first version of the National Reconstruction Plan was presented on 26 February for public consultation and sent to the European Commission on a working basis. Since then, informal, technical dialogue has continued. We discussed content with the Commission, but also with the social partners. You will remember a very broad campaign of wide public consultations, reversed hearings. The document was discussed further and further along. The Joint Government and Local Government Commission, 11 parliamentary committees, there really was a lot of it, each of the stakeholders could express themselves, the Social Dialogue Council, the public benefit committee, all the forums, business associations, employers' associations participated in these consultative work. This phase continued until we were obliged to submit the National Reconstruction Plan in accordance with the Regulation, i.e. until 30 April. The Council of Ministers adopted a resolution on 30 April adopting the content of the National Reconstruction Plan as a kind of negotiating mandate to the European Commission. This version on 30 April, which we formally submitted on 3 May, is known, was suspended on the pages of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. I understand that about this stage of questions. It's not here because this version is official, it's public, so I think it's hard for me to report here. However, I assume that what has happened and what new elements have been introduced since 30 April, i.e. since the decision of the Council of Ministers, at the level of formal consultation with the European Commission, is the most important question, and I will bring my statement to that. I understand that this is the most important thing, and it is not really the subject of any public debate, because it was quite difficult discussions with the European Commission, but it was not a public debate. Of course, if I had to talk about all the changes... We had 24 meetings with the European Commission, and this was at the level of: the directorate, the secretary of state, while the technical meetings were several dozens and they really dealt with very specific issues, shifting dates, millstones, targets from quarters. Very, very, very technical discussion. On the other hand, what the main issues were about, when it comes to the negotiations that were replicated at several stages of the meetings, because they were important, they were to be negotiated, they were not so obvious to be accepted, I have a set of issues that have emerged, which we discussed longer, and which we should really say, because we hope that they will finally be adopted in the final version of the National Reconstruction Plan. Ladies and gentlemen! We completed the technical dialogue on July 12th. These elements negotiated at technical level have been accepted. Since then, there are no expectations from the European Commission regarding the content of the National Reconstruction Plan. There are no more technical formal negotiations with the Commission: we propose whether you agree or if you have another proposal. This discussion is gone for the moment. Today we also have a meeting with Director General Céline Gauer at an hour. 15. There may be further proposals, but today there is no proposal to change national recovery plans. I must tell you with full satisfaction that, at technical level, the National Reconstruction Plan has been recognised as having negotiated it and is accepted at technical level. It's just that. What was the focus of the discussion during these meetings? Of course, decarbonisation and increased share of RES in the economy. We felt that this topic would be a very serious element of the discussion. In this respect, firstly, the proposal put forward by the European Commission was to declare in the framework of the reform three RES auctions, renewable energy sources. The original version was that these were auctions with a certain capacity, i.e. the exact value of these auctions. We negotiated, and finally it happened that we stopped at the number of three auctions without indicating the values, the powers that these auctions would have concerned. This is due to information, also from the arguments that we have convinced the Committee of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, i.e. that it is unpredictable to determine today what powers would be to which auction in the years 2023 to 2024 that this would be unlikely, difficult. As this was not to be established, the Commission accepted this argument. A very serious challenge was to negotiate the amount of energy produced from renewable energy sources from photovoltaics, wind energy. We have committed ourselves to a very serious challenge. It's upbuilding and it's also a huge challenge, let's be aware of that. In the energy programme, the National Energy and Climate Programme, we assumed 18,5 GW by 2026, while the final negotiations led us to a common level, a common place of 23,5 GW by 2026. We have raised this ceiling significantly to the multiannual plans that the Ministry of Climate and Environment had previously had, so we take this as a really big challenge. The second thing, of course, is the issue of housing. It's already arrived at the end of the negotiations. Housing was also part of the discussion with our partners who offered us this kind of solution. We were also aware that at an earlier stage the issue of housing was not well received from the point of view of its inclusion in the National Plan for Reconstruction. And these negotiations focused on a certain standard of housing, i.e. raising certain energy parameters, energy intensity of housing. Of course, the proposal that has been presented to us, and the Portuguese level in this area, was unacceptable because climate conditions are completely different there. As a result, some parameters of energy intensity of apartments have finally stood at an acceptable, feasible level for us. We accepted this and agreed to EUR 755 million for social housing, municipal housing, which today is a very big problem for local authorities, of course, but in particular for local residents. The next thing that has been the subject of several meetings is of course the care of children up to the age of 3. This is a case that we really cared about. There were some doubts on the part of the Commission, which is the demarcating line between the little guy and the young guy, who is very successful today - it has to be acknowledged - and every year for several hundred million budgets... We proposed to increase this budget on a scale of the whole KPO by EUR 370 million, i.e. about PLN 1600 million. And, of course, there was a question about this designation, and there was a question about which program it was dedicated to. [[Why isn't the money here?]] Ask such a question during the processing of current information. I'd be happy to answer that. Finally, we accepted a commitment to increase the rate of care facilities from the 36 000 proposed at the beginning. up to 47.5 thousand, which is also very ambitious, but I understand that we all agree here that addressing bigger challenges in such topics as the number of places in daycare is absolutely beneficial. Here, mobilization of us on the national side of Poland to such a very ambitious approach will serve everyone. We'll see in the smallest town where these places will be built. Then exchange heat sources. The Commission originally called for a small share of gases in the exchange of low-carbon furnaces, and here we were very concerned that gas should be much more involved. Ultimately, with great success - we have to admit - we have negotiated a 40% share in heat sources just on the source in the form of gas. That's very good information. Long-term care. The Commission called for the number of long-term care beds to increase by 35% by 2026. Finally, in the negotiations, the commitment is that there will be a 6% increase in seats compared to 2019. And, of course, you all still remember that there is CSR in lawmaking. There were also ongoing discussions on this subject. The Commission drew attention to a rather sensitive moment and place in the form of law-making here in our House, in Parliament, namely the parliamentary projects. Here, of course, there was such a remark that the process, even with regard to parliamentary legislative proposals, should be transparent, be a process involving social actors and be a process with an element of public consultation. And we are very interested in these proposals, and we have proposed that we adopt solutions which will allow, also in the case of parliamentary projects, to give the chance to speak to stakeholders, social factors, and the third sector within these projects. That wasn't an option today. This is due to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. There's no space. Of course, it's informal... It's happening, and it's happened, but we're going to want to create a path so that even within these projects, there's room for this kind of consultation to take place. It seems to me that for the benefit of all projects that will appear in this mode. We don't see any problem here. This also applies to the Senate. There has always been a question of how much we use the parliamentary projects? Here, statistically, we can say that if anyone in order to recognise that the parliamentary mode of the project is pejorative, however, that it should be a certain type, an exception to the rule, we are really going in this direction and have drastically reduced the number of parliamentary projects in relation to - 2020 was unique here - all projects that enter Parliament in relation to government. So this progression, this direction is determined by us, is continued. These were the main issues that focused the discussion with the European Commission on which the agreement took place. There are no other expectations beyond these topics to modify the National Reconstruction Plan, which is, as we are talking about the current content of the national plan, that is what was on April 30, plus the changes I mentioned here today. Nothing new, nothing else in the national plan. And so that it doesn't sound negative, because he's very ambitious, and in the case of this first assumption, on April 30th, when we put it together, he's been consulted, discussed with the committee since February 26th. So this document of April 30 was very mature, already mostly negotiated. Those things that remained were the ones that we discussed later on, until July 12th. Of course, I think you're also interested in this... This is going a bit beyond the scope of this information, but it is also worth mentioning at what stage we are at when it comes to approving the National Plan for Reconstruction. In 27 countries, we have 25 countries that have even made plans. The Netherlands and Bulgaria have not yet submitted a plan despite the deadline set by the Regulation by 30 April. Pretty curious. You can only point out that the Netherlands is probably because of the value of... [[We are more interested in Poland.]] ...a national recovery plan for the Netherlands is about EUR 10 million, so I think it's significant enough to be able to fight for it in the first place. Bulgaria - it was necessary to examine this legislative process in which this plan is being prepared. There's this. much more complicated. In the 25 countries that have submitted plans, 18 countries have this preliminary decision by the Commission to approve the plans, while 11, today 12 countries already have 13 percent advance payments for the entire pool. [[What about us?]] And that also suggests that it's hard to talk about an alarming situation here. 13 countries in 27 countries have received any funds, so a vast minority. On the other hand, of course, I would like Poland to be among the first countries, but I must share with you a fact that strongly affects this situation. Remember this year's May? On 3 May, the Sejm met extraordinarily to adopt the Council's ratification act on its own resources. We did it on a holiday so that we were asked to carry out this process so that the Commission could mobilise funds so that it could raise funds in the financial markets. We did it, we stood up to the task. Unfortunately, as a result of the actions of the Senate, Mr. Marshal Grodzki and the renewal, holding this law in the Senate (the bell), we have led to a situation in which we were the last country to adopt the ratification decision, 27th in 27 countries. [[Grodski's guilty.]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, in a conversation with the European Commission, it is hard to expect them to take out our plan first and consider it. In a situation where they asked us to do so, they encouraged us to step up the process of adopting this law, we were the last. Therefore, today we have some kind of consequences for this type of action. [[Oh, liars, liars.]] So if we can talk about what we expect in the near future, then, of course, the approval of the National Plan for Reconstruction. I'm counting on this situation to happen within a few weeks. Today we had Ursuli von der Leyen's message in the European Parliament and please pay attention to the context in which Poland appeared there. In one, and this is very positive - as a large importer of low-carbon modes of transport, as an example pointed out that we strongly, to a large extent, contribute to the development of this transport throughout Europe. Despite the great expectations that Poland would be stigmatized there, this was a message from the state of the European Union, i.e. a summary of all the biggest problems, an upbuilding speech that yearns, that in the near future we are clearly going to confirm our plan. Absolutely in such a plan, we assume that we will also receive an advance this year. I'll remind you that here the procedure is quite complicated, because it's not just The Commission decides this - later we still have a financial committee, and later we have a Council, which consists of finance ministers, which also approves individual NPOs and payments of advances, so it has been a few weeks since the Commission itself decided to transfer the advance itself. And to be fully aware, from the very beginning of the creation of the RRF and the discussion on this reconstruction fund, it was clear that the Mediterranean countries, the southern countries will first have an approved National Reconstruction Plan and will receive advances. It was obvious, it was even the subject of public debates - you can read this information in the transcripts. And it was also for the obvious reasons we know, i.e. Greece, Italy, Portugal are in a very difficult budgetary position and for them these measures were either in the situation to be or not to be. [[We're in...]] Even if you read and compared the national reconstruction plans that were approved in the first place, these countries - even in relation to Polish, but I do not want to treat it as any pattern - e.g. With a German plan, you'd see what the dissonance is, what the quality of these documents is. But there was a political decision to help these countries with some kind of European solidarity. I understand that. I absolutely don't question that. There you go. Get close to the end, Minister. State Secretary at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: But she was aware that no matter what these plans would be, they would be accepted and, first of all, they would be transfers to the southern and Mediterranean European countries. On my side, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u198	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and three minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u199	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the subject matter of the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! Before I begin my speech, I will return to 21 July 2020. The head of the European Council, Charles Michel, but also most European press agencies, provided information for us as a very, very good country: Poland is one of the biggest beneficiaries of the EU budget. for the period 2021 to 2027 and the Fund for Reconstruction. After 4 days of deliberations, the leaders of the European Union adopted the draft budget of the European Union for 20212027 and defined support for individual countries under the so-called It's a reconstruction fund. Poland is expected to receive EUR 136 400 million of grants and EUR 34 200 million of loans from all sources. This is a huge negotiating success of the Polish government and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki - these are not only the words of Polish journalists, but also very many press agencies. I think that, above all, this success must be considered in three aspects. On the one hand, it is a great success of our country, the Polish state, because it is the money that will allow us, I hope, to develop effectively in the coming years, perhaps a decade. But perhaps it will decide this, and I hope so, about the fate of future generations in Poland, as it will affect future generations in Europe. It is the success of the Polish government, which should also be emphasized, but also the personal success of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who can undoubtedly treat it as one of the greatest and most important political successes in his life as a politician. The most important part of the Fund for Reconstruction is an instrument for reconstruction and strengthening resilience. From this source to Poland, ladies and gentlemen, 23.9 EUR billion of grants and over EUR 34 200 million of loans. In order to receive this money, it was necessary to prepare the National Reconstruction Plan, which has already been mentioned by the Minister. It should also be made clear that he was prepared with the right parameters and at the right time, which was also noticed - unfortunately not everyone has succeeded so far. Why do both the European Union and Poland spend these funds from the Fund for Reconstruction? Such questions are often asked, unfortunately also in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, the Fund for Reconstruction, as we all know, responds to a pandemic crisis, but I hope it will also give some impetus to the development of the whole European economy and a certain competition with the whole world economy. I'm thinking here of some competition with China, with the United States or with other global players. This will undoubtedly give us an impulse for development. Most politicians, but also social organisations, make it clear that this is a kind of Marshall plan. Importantly and to be stressed, this PLN 58 100 million will be earmarked for specific investments in specific areas, which the Minister has already mentioned a little bit here. Let me remind you that this is a digital transformation, the resilience and competitiveness of the economy that I said was energy, the reduction of energy intensity, which was also mentioned by the Minister, or even green, smart mobility, which was thoroughly discussed a few hours ago. Ladies and gentlemen! The scope of the investments to be submitted is also important. First of all, I think about infrastructure investments, which many Poles are waiting for. This is also a kind of civilization difference between us and the rest of Europe. I'm thinking railroads and roads here. Many times in this Chamber, but not only in this Chamber, in the media there were words to the Polish government, I do not want to say: the accusation that there is too little consultation. This consultation was said by the Minister. Here I will mention that they took place from February (The Bell) to April 2021 through debates, public hearings, consultations within the joint government and local government committee. There were dozens of them. After these dozens of consultations, these documents were overworked and then a reversed hearing, which was also mentioned by the Minister. In conclusion, I would like, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, to call for the deep support of this project. [[But what project?]] Of course, we may differ, we may always differ as politicians, but let us remember that this concrete reconstruction project should be supported by all of us, because these are indeed decisions that take place for the coming years, and I think also for the coming decades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u200	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It is sad that Minister Buda cheats the High House on the National Plan for Reconstruction in principle since April, as if he were fighting with Prime Minister Morawiecki for a palm of priority in this regard. It is sad that Minister Buda pretended not to know what today is of interest to the High House, the applicants and the whole public opinion most about the National Plan for Reconstruction. We already know today, Minister, that if it were not for the PiS government - authoritarian, undemocratic, notoriously violating Polish law and EU law - money from KPO would save people's lives today, supporting a broken health system. But before the PiS government starts spending that money - and we're gonna look at their hands so that they don't embezzle, just like they did with the masks, just like they did with the respirators and those Polish Shawlmen - first we have to get that money, i.e. The European Commission must give a positive opinion. And here begins the lie festival of Prime Minister Morawiecki and Minister Buda. Minister Buda said this in an interview a few days ago: We have met all the deadlines set by the European Union. It's a lie. In the National Plan for Reconstruction, the government was obliged to show the reform of the judiciary, because in the European Semester, the European Commission indicated to you that we have a bad investment climate. Everyone can see that the investments are in decline for six years of your government. [[Applause]] And that's what you were supposed to do better. It was your duty. That means that you failed to follow the European Commission's recommendation on time. Minister Buda also says: In a similar situation as Poland there are more Member States. It's a lie again. Only the oligarchic Hungarian Prime Minister Orban is in a situation like us. It is impossible to compare countries that have not yet submitted an NPO, or countries that are negotiating with Poland, about which the Minister said that on 12 July the governments had concluded negotiations, and here the European Commission is holding back a positive opinion. Another lie. Minister Buda claims that he has no grounds for linking the issue of superiority of European law over national law to the issue of approval of national NPOs. This is your third lie, Minister, because KPO's money is spent under the Fund for Reconstruction Regulation. As a country which questions the superiority of EU law over national law, as we have committed ourselves to, joining the Union, which results directly from the Polish Constitution, it can spend billions of euros... [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] ...on the basis of a regulation whose superiority is contested? After all, this is a threat to the European Union's finances. [[Applause]] [[Lie!]] [[Keep your voice down!]] And finally there are lies of Prime Minister Morawiecki. Of course, there wouldn't be enough time for the whole Sejm meeting to replace them, but I'm just gonna say one thing. The Prime Minister speaks in an interview with the Legal Gazeta Journal: The European Commission should look at its own regulations on CPOs, there are strict deadlines in which Poland should receive a reply. Well, that's a lie. Prime Minister Morawiecki needs to know that the European Commission has no rules of procedure for CPOs, the only document This is the Regulation on the Fund for Reconstruction. And it says that the Commission has two months to give a positive opinion, but, attention, you have to read it to yourself, Minister, and please tell the Prime Minister, if the Commission does not come to an agreement with the Government, it should complete the evaluation within a reasonable time. What is the reasonable term? Then I'll tell you, Minister, tell the Prime Minister again. A reasonable term will be when the PiS terminates The Disciplinar Chamber, and Prime Minister Morawiecki withdraws his curial application from the Constitutional Tribunal, possibly when you tell Mrs Przyłębska to put it off ad Kalendas graecas. Therefore, gentlemen of the PiS, let's do it because you are blocking measures that Poland is very much needed. And finally. The Minister once said such a sentence: We want the system of spending money from KPO to be a good system, at least as good as the National Vaccination Programme, so as not to lose even one euro that we have from this pot. In the context of what is happening (the Bell) with the National Vaccination Program, Minister, I hope you are not Cassandra, because the Poles will not forgive you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u202	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The absent Prime Minister! Abandoned Government! This is supposed to be a very important project of ours, Marshall's second plan, and there's basically no one in government benches but the Minister. We're discussing the National Reconstruction Plan. The Minister was kind to say that from a technical point of view everything is fine. From a technical point of view, everything may be fine, but from a political and substantive point of view, nothing is okay. The PiS goes on short circuit with the European Union and treats this fund today not as a National Plan for Reconstruction of Poland, but as a fund to be a government or party plan to rebuild the PiS polls. These EUR 136 billion grants and EUR 34 billion loans are currently at risk. And to say that this is a good situation, that we have everything negotiated, when this plan has not been approved, you can just put it between fairy tales. It's just storytelling. Today, the situation is that the European Commission does not want to give us this money. The situation is that the most important PiS politicians today are doing everything they can to keep us from getting that money. I will remind you of the disgraceful words that fall in various situations and places: Marshal Terletki, that we must seek drastic solutions and the dictatorship of Brussels bureaucracy, Mr Suski, that we must fight the Brussels invader, and finally the Minister of Justice, that our presence in the Union is not at any cost. So I'm asking you, what's the price? At what price? Is Minister Ziobro or Marshal Terlecki Will Mr Suski take their own money and give it to the Poles and Poles? Do they have that kind of money? I understand that some have worked in banks for a very long time, some work in companies of the Treasury, have big money and can afford it, but not to give it to Poles and Poles. And it's not government money, it's not PiS money, it's money so we can get out of the pandemic and make it possible for not only the economy and social affairs in Poland to get back on their feet after the pandemic period, but also so that we can build more so that housing can be built. I am glad that in the highest energy quality you can do this, that you negotiate about it, because this is what the Left has sought. We also sought that there be money for hospitals, and they are thanks to the Left included in the KPO. [[Only KPO doesn't have one.]] But also thanks to our talks with Commissioner Ferreira, the Union is looking at you more and more. Technical negotiations are one thing, but where the money is today, which means we don't have it, that's another. I believe, Minister, that we cannot afford this kind of statement that everything is all right at a time when we have such a huge crisis in a country when we do not have this money from the National Plan for Reconstruction, when the European Union looks at us as weirdos for a very long time, and on the other hand we have a fall of social protests and a mass of social groups, from doctors to judicial staff and prosecutors who want to live decently in Poland. You should have taken this opportunity and tried not to stand up against Poles and Poles today, because 88% of us wants to be in the European Union and wants you to stop building conflict, standing on barricades and waving a saber, wants you to get money for their needs, because that's what millions of ordinary people in Poland are waiting for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u204	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, the reflection on the fact that unfortunately there was no recognition in the government that the debate on the preparation of the National Reconstruction Plan should take place with the participation of the Polish Parliament (Applause), and in many parliaments the final document of the national recovery plan was presented and approved by Parliament, and it was also gaining a strong political mandate in terms of government support in the negotiations with the Commission. We avoided it. Let me remind you that we first asked the government several times to inform when it will present the KPO. Then, if I remember correctly, on 14 February, I asked the Prime Minister to present to us when the draft of the KPO will be submitted for public consultation. I was then sent back by the Minister to present this document at a press conference on 26 February at 3 p.m. 14. This is not a good method when it comes to Parliament's discussions with the government on key documents that should have strong political support. You would certainly get strong support as a government, as the United Right, also in Parliament, as was the case with the Reconstruction Fund. A public consultation was held which lasted over a month. There are results, we have read what was included there, but the final shape of this document was presented to the European Commission without the participation of the Polish Parliament. And now the Minister is coming and presenting - rightly so - the results of the negotiations, and perhaps some of them could have been achieved without these additional negotiations. What did we ask for in this debate as a Club of Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party? First of all, the increase in agricultural expenditure, because it was only foreseen 1%. We were talking about 10%. Luckily, it's about 6%. We also proposed the distribution of funds proportionally between the government, local government and enterprise sectors. There has also been a significant improvement in this case, about 1/3. The government sector has a much higher percentage allocation of potential funds that we will receive. The increase in funds for the development of renewable energy sources and renewable energy - the result of the technical consultation shows that the state as a government also had to improve the Polish document on this issue, and after all it was a postulate presented among others. through the Polish Sejm, through my parliamentary club. Monitoring activities related to the spending of this money with the participation of local governments - that was the expectation that was outlined not only by the parliamentary club PSL or other clubs, but also by the European Commission. And, of course, the question of the indicators that we want to achieve in the area of KPOs - I think that in this technical and political debate with the European Commission this task has also been put before the Polish government, and the Polish government also had to respond to issues that were submitted, among others. by the Minister in technical negotiations as well as at expert level. On 24 March, we called for a dialogue on KPOs to be held with a public hearing. We found then that local governments, social partners are strong partners who can support the Polish position as regards the National Plan for Reconstruction. It was already known in August that this plan would not be approved by the European Commission before the end of the holiday. You have rightly stated today that, after confirming by the European Commission that you approve the National Plan for Reconstruction of Poland before the Council of the Union approves it. After all, in August it was already known that the panel of experts appointed by the Council of the European Union would only start working in early September, that is, in August we knew, at the beginning of August, just at the end of July, we knew that physically this money to Poland, as everything will go happily, will be only in October, or actually in the second half of October. But there are still some difficulties in the political debate, because since Commissioner Dombrovskis says that Poland should meet the requirements of the Union, there are expectations. And now the question to the Minister: How can we answer yes from the Polish government that Poland will meet these requirements? We know that among others. It's about the Disciplinary Chamber. There is confirmation from the Prime Minister and also the President of Law and Justice that you agree with this opinion that a change must be made, so it must be done. On the other hand, Commissioner Gentiloni (The Bell) says this: There is an explanation for the primacy of national law over EU law. At least until now it is known that in matters in which competences have been entrusted to the Union, we do not question that there is a need to respect EU law in these matters, that there is no conflict with Polish constitutional law, although we believe that in some cases this issue probably needs to be clarified. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say this: if there were more goodwill, talks with the Polish Parliament, it would probably be a lot of difficulties to approve the National Plan for Reconstruction - and this is the experience for the future - that we would avoid. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u206	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The first thing to say on this occasion is where money comes from and where wealth comes from in the economy. It does not come from the fact that the government in Warsaw prints money that the government in Brussels prints money. [[Here we go, in Poland today.]] This is not where the wealth of nations comes from, sir. The wealth of nations comes from the fact that there is work, that there is innovation, that there is savings, that there is effort and that there is dynamic activity in the nation, in society. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And what you are here in this Chamber - from left to right, from right to left - do not want to accept is the fact that no money from the European Union has built any economy in the last 40 or 50 years. Because if they had built, today the most developed economic countries would have been the countries of southern Europe, to which most of the money was made, to Portugal, Spain, Greece, Italy - and they are not. Why? Because even the biggest subsidies and subsidies do not change the economic structure of the country, the economic structure of the country is not being built. It is an initiative of people - also culture - and the conditions under which it operates, the institutional framework that the state creates are the most important determinants of building the wealth of nations. And this was also visible last year, after all, Poland did not pump most of the money from the European Union, from among European countries, in this whole coronation. The countries of the West, Europe, have pumped large countries into their economies many times more and have not had better results. Why? Because our economy simply defended itself - in those areas in which it defended itself, because it did not defend itself in all - by force and initiative of Polish entrepreneurs. Those entrepreneurs and middle class you want to hit so hard in your new mess. Those who are to pay for financing billionaires and millionaires more favourable conditions, because in this direction are your proposals and solutions in a new mess, which you are so happy not to talk about. Ladies and gentlemen! But what is the result of Moravian capitulation last year in Brussels? The result is that the European Union, contrary to the previous announcements, despite all the spells we have heard since 20, for 30 years, obviously exceeds, breaks the treaties. Of course, he speaks in matters of worldview. Last week she called for the legalization of homosexual relationships, all forms of rainbows (the bell) throughout the European Union. Of course all of you Euro-enthusiasts from the PiS, from the Platform, from the Left, have always said that the European Union will not act this way. Of course, you were wrong, unconscious or lying. Of course today and tomorrow there is a debate in the European Parliament once again attacking... Draw close to the end, sir. ...a Polish country that uses its sovereign prerogatives to be a law, whether we agree with it or not. Thank you very much. Of course, it must be made clear: this is the European Union we do not want and we cannot respect such a dictatorship from Brussels.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u208	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u209	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Today the question is quite different, because the question that was in the proposal, to which you mostly referred, was asked four months ago, but then you minimized it, and today the question is different: Where is the National Plan for Reconstruction and where is our money? It took time for the European Commission to realise that it cannot be based on mutual trust, good faith or a community of values when talking to you. Did you really think that the European Commission was soft and would never dare to take financial arguments? 17 countries already have approved KPOs, 12 received first payments. I will repeat this question again: Where is our money? You're saying there's no way the European Commission can stop our CPOs? Each country was obliged to draw up a national recovery plan based on the European Commission's recommendations under the European Semester. It is a procedure whereby the EU's single market can develop at the right pace in the right direction. The part of the recommendation for Poland is: improving the investment climate, in particular by protecting the independence of courts, ensuring effective public consultation and involvement of social partners in the policy-making process. Yes, in Poland there is no climate to invest, among others. Because of politicized courts, which you ignore. And precisely this passage taken by the European Commission really is a hard argument for stopping the Polish, but also the Hungarian national recovery plan. It is therefore not true, as you are convincing us here, along with other policies of Law and Justice, that the European Commission cannot stop payments by Ziabra. Well, maybe. Jarosław Kaczyński has become a hostage not only of the sejm minorities, which he must buy with every sejm vote, but also of Ziobra, without which he is unable to take a step backwards in the matter of the Disciplinary Chamber. Jarosław Kaczyński has also become a hostage of his own tactics, which for years consists in generating conflict with the European Union and buying social support, on anti-EU rhetoric. Mr. Jarosław's strategic games give us little income, and they cost us a lot. Because what's the National Reconstruction Plan worth? This 260 billion PLN, Minister, is rounded up, among others. 43 million average national salaries of Poles and Poles are (The bell), attention, 207 million thirteen pensions, but it is also more than 6 years of financing 500+. You dream Europe as a community of coal and steel, but the world has changed, the world has grown. Today's Europe is not only a common market and free trade, but, above all, a community of values that we place against Russia or China's policies. Get to work and do whatever it takes to get that money to Poland. It's not grace, it's your duty. Thank you very much, Member. As an applicant, we request that the government's information on this matter be rejected. Word to Mr Winnicki: The Confederation has no mandate to speak on the European Union and share these funds, because you simply want to bring Poland out of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u210	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Monika Pawłowska, the Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u211	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The funds from the National Reconstruction Plan are our hope and possibilities of rebuilding Poland after the pandemic. This is in principle not subject to any discussion, it is a record development opportunity thanks to the funds from the Reconstruction Fund, for which we voted as Sejm and Senate a few months ago. I am surprised that there is no unity among us parliamentarians. Many of you were against or abstained from voting as soon as possible regarding the receipt of funds from KPO or the Fund for Reconstruction. It's just that this money doesn't belong to the government, to administration or to individual groups. These are the resources for the huge technological and ecological impulses that we will receive soon, I hope, for Poles and Poles, for all of us. [[They're not to be embezzled.]] KPO cannot and should not be part of political battles and continuous internal wars. Together, we must be aware of the responsibility that lies with the current government, but also with the future government. We have a huge opportunity for development, especially for municipalities, for powiats, which for many years, for all previous governments, have been waiting for new investments, for crèches, kindergartens, pitches or roads, and above all for green energy and new jobs. Let me repeat: this is an opportunity, not a threat. Nor should the European Union's position on this issue to suspend the payment of funds be part of the political game. Ministers worked hard on the conditions for the implementation of the KPO. It is a well-organized and consulted plan. Even in the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology during Jarosław Gowin's time, I remember taking part in consultations with local governments or entrepreneurs. The interests of the state over political interests - with this slogan we should stay as long as possible, not only during this discussion. Here I appeal with a strong appeal to Eurosceptics. Poland entered the European Union, giving us the hope of change, of being part of the West. The European Union is our guarantee of being safe in an increasingly less secure world. Lubelszczyzna, from which I come, is one of the largest beneficiaries of EU funds. We need to be together in building a strong state, which focuses primarily on the development of citizens. On the issue of KPO, the government of Matthew Morawiecki and the United Right will have our support, as we have said from the very beginning of the appearance of the Fund for Reconstruction, when the Agreement was still part of the government camp. These measures are (the bell) our state right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u212	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are witnessing a very weak performance today. We are talking about many key issues for the Polish state. On the other hand, apparently these are not so crucial matters for the rulers, because they are absent. We are in the process of examining the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. Do you see the President of the Council of Ministers? Me neither. We've seen information from the Minister of Health before. He wasn't there either. He could be justified, for example. During that time, he met with the paramedics. But for all we know, it didn't happen. We have already witnessed information from the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. The president, of course, was. I would like to remind you that this is the President elected mainly by the votes of the Law and Justice, while there was a lack of Law and Justice. How can we at least assume that you are serious about these topics? A Member of Law and Justice said earlier that he was hoping to work together on KPOs. We're ready for this cooperation. [[Voice from the hall: But there is no messenger.]] We're even ready to take some responsibility for ourselves. On the other hand, if we are to take this responsibility, it must be consulted and worked out together. I'm really counting on KPO. Fingers crossed to make it work. On the other hand, looking at the envelope choices, looking at the ventilators or at Ostrołęka, or at the nuclear power plant, which has been building for a long time, although we do not even have its location yet, and we have spent several hundred million on it, unfortunately I am not very optimistic that it will all work out the way you plan it. And I have the impression that from this National Reconstruction Plan there will be a party reconstruction plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u214	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to come forward with a question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Janusz Kowalski, First Member, Law and Justice. Question time - 1 minute. I beg you to observe the time, because we have to finish the Sejm's session on a scheduled basis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Izabela Leszczyn is today the face of the Civic Platform in this discussion. She showed what Donald Tusk's plan was to return to power. Well, it's blackmail... [[Don't lie to me, sir.]] ...the blackmail of Brussels not paying the European Union's funds... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to calm down. ...blackmail to break the law in Poland. You're lying, my fellow Member. According to Art. 8 Polish Constitution is the Polish Constitution is the overriding and supreme law in the Republic of Poland... [[Watch your mouth.]] ...not EU law. And don't lie here. Of course, you want to be blackmailed by supporting EU Commissioners today, to make sure that... [[But you lie every day, now too.]] ...the Polish Constitution will not be respected. That's not what he's gonna do. National Reconstruction Plan - this money belongs to Poland, should be paid. I voted against the National Plan for Reconstruction - exactly those things that we voted against proved to be true, because today is the program used to blackmail Poland. That's what we've been keeping from. It is an ordinary loan that we have to pay back by 2058, but the loan that Brussels wants - and the opposition - and Donald Tusk - blackmail Poland. That's not what he's gonna do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Be a loyal Member to the Republic of Poland, not to Brussels, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u216	Mr President, if someone in this Chamber does not comply with the Constitution, it is certainly not the Members of the opposition. [[Mr Kowalski.]] Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u217	Mrs. Marshal! I'd ask you to give me two more seconds. Mr. Speaker! Only elementary culture towards a woman is required of you. We could be different. [[Applause]] But basic culture towards a woman is required of you. Minister! You, Minister, are a little out of line. The Lord has gone out and told us how much money you have for kindergartens, for daycare even. You're talking about how much money you have for hospitals. I suggest you go under KPRM, tell these people how much money you have for these hospitals. Even for rent, you have money. The problem is, these are all fairy tales because you don't have any money. And that's why there's this debate. There's no KPO, there's no approved program. The European Commission has not given you the money. And all you're saying is that these are fairy tales, because you don't have the money, and you don't have it because you're applying the policy exactly as Mr. Kowalski says. Screaming, yelling, yelling, yelling, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, You get nothing and you tell stories. I'd like to dedicate one fairy tale to you, which is exactly what you're talking about. Mrs. Marshal! Allow me, just a few seconds. On the islands of Bergamutach/ Supposedly there is a cat in shoes, and a donkey was also seen, whose ant was carrying. The Lord tells us such tales, for neither this donkey nor these ants are present. This Brzechwa fairy tale ends with the words: "There is an elephant with trumpets two/ And only these islands do not exist. It's like your program, your money, and your reconstruction of Poland just doesn't exist. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u218	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Izabela Leszczyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I do not expect anything from Mr Kowalski towards myself, but I expect that Mr Sejm of the Republic of Poland will not speak rubbish from this speaker, will not lie, will not [[Applause]] He's a fraud, and he's not gonna act against... [[Then step out of the podium.]] ...Polish state right. Because if you do not understand that Poland can be either in the European Union or with Putin, where your colleagues are and like to be, it means that you cannot be a Member of the Republic of Poland. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Pride, Kowalski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u220	Please, Mr... I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. I'm asking you to calm down. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. I am so sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The Minister, speaking in the youth language, was dimming here, stating the reasons for the final examination of the Polish National Plan for Reconstruction, transferring responsibility to the Senate and to the Marshal of Grodzki. Or should we listen to the European Commission? Perhaps the judgments of the European Courts must be respected, after all? However, maybe it is the solutions that the European Union expects, and then it will be easier for the European Commission to decide? [[Voice from the room: On your knees yet.]] You were talking about technical conditions - you said this as a success of the government side - that in these technical negotiations 36 to 6% were reduced. the ceiling for long-term care issues. With the current state of health care, the ageing of society, this problem... Go ahead and finish. ...is very important. In view of the above, I would like to ask what caused you to have conducted these negotiations in this way... Thank you very much. ...technical in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u222	Thank you very much. Really, we have 35 people to ask the question, and we need to finish this meeting on time. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u223	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no Prime Minister Morawiecki, but I am not surprised that the Prime Minister is not here. If there's such gameplay and inability, it's probably safe to hide, try to avoid it. That's what it looks like. Let me give you an example of how you are harming Poland. It's about the railway investment funds. PKP PLK planned to allocate 17 billion PLN to them at the beginning, in September it was only supposed to be 8?9 billion PLN, and now it appears that at the end of the year it could be just 3 billion PLN. These investments will not be made because funds cannot be placed from the next financial perspective of the Union. There are also no funds from KPOs. Minister, this is your fault. That's what you're doing to the Poles today. The funds that should go to Poland should go to investments, through your inefficient policy, such a guerrilla policy, are stopped. This is an act against the interests of the State (the bell), against the interests of citizens. I have no question, because in answer to every question we receive only blunt propaganda. Minister, Prime Minister Morawiecki should come here and apologize to the Poles for all this, for the anti-state activity you are doing during the debate on KPO.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u224	Thank you, sir. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u225	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a short question about financing the implementation of KPOs in Poland. I know that funding for the implementation of NPOs is on the side of the Member States. I wanted to ask if the budget guaranteed money for the implementation of KPOs. If so, what is the amount? If this has not been done so far, can this situation be corrected? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u226	Thank you, Member. I'm sorry I didn't say your name out loud. Please, Mr Ryszard Galla, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u227	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the information we could hear that there are Member States that have submitted programmes. It's those countries that already have the resources. I'd like to hear from you when these resources come to us. When will we be able to spend this money? We will wait patiently for these resources to reach us. I would like to ask you what projects in the field of water and inland waterway management will be implemented within the framework of the National Plan for Reconstruction. A few weeks ago, I asked the Minister of Infrastructure about the use of funds from KPOs to carry out these very important tasks. We know that, we've had programs and so on since 2006. However, money is still needed, especially when it comes to regulating the Oder. I received a very satisfying answer. The specific tasks to be carried out (The Bell) were mentioned, but at the end of the day Minister Grybarczyk wrote: These projects will be carried out depending on whether they will be included in the National Plan for Reconstruction. Therefore, my question: Will you really - you have informed about this today, I have the impression - these projects that have been submitted be implemented? Please confirm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u228	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mariusz Kałużny, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today we are talking about the CPO and about changes in the context of the public consultation and the European Commission's proposals. Public consultation must be carried out always and everywhere. As for the European Commission, today it must be made clear that unfortunately, Zbigniew Ziobro was right about this issue, [[Applause]] which, first of all, pointed out that the conditions under which we receive these funds are not necessarily good for Poland, are hitting its sovereignty. It was Zbigniew Ziobro who pointed out that the European Commission would use these funds to blackmail Poland. Today we see it. Today, the opposition state says: Constitutional Court, Disciplinary Chamber, broken constitution, etc. After all, the answer to the question why not one euro has not yet reached the Polish budget is simple. You can see it in this picture. I'll show you the marshal, too. We have Donald Tusk on it, kissing Mrs. Angela Merkel's hand. That's the answer. Unfortunately, it is about the German drives, your opposition submission (the bell) and keeping with the Germans instead of Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u230	Something like the concept of culture doesn't apply at all to the PiS. Please, Mr Marek Owa. [[Sir, the president kisses a woman's hand, too.]] [[Yeah, but not for a specific purpose.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's insane. Watch this country. PiS in today's debate is represented only by supporters of Poland's exit from the European Union. [[Applause]] It's a creative development of Terletki, Kowalski, Suski. [[Yes, sir.]] Gentlemen, today you present to the Poles the official line of the United Right. You don't want to be in the European Union anymore, but we won't let you do that. The Minister once again said a few words about what we wouldn't have. Minister, Italians account for EUR 25 billion, Spanish EUR 9 billion, France EUR 5 billion, Greece EUR 4 billion, Portugal, even Germany account for over EUR 2 billion. Poland has not a penny. Poland is sitting in a donkey bench with Hungarians. The PiS couldn't even agree on a National Reconstruction Plan. Even that's out of your league. This is not the only problem of Poland. We're on hold on the partnership agreement. We have blocked funds for 5 voivodships under the REACT-EU programme. 50 billion PLN is at risk for 5 voivodships. Go ahead and finish it. That's exactly what you know. The European Commission has been writing documentation on this issue for a year now. You can't do anything. You lead us to barricades and strive to exit Poland from the European Union. This is your official line. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u232	Dear Mr... Please, gentlemen, you're sticking to time because I'm gonna have to use the mic-off method. Please, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u233	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! The debate is going on as we probably expected: the European Union is responsible for everything. But there's one thing I'm paying attention to... [[We'll wait for the real Poles from Kaczyński to put the real patriots from Ziobra.]] ...Mrs. Law and Justice. If you're going to the bank, and you probably have a loan in the bank, this bank isn't paying you money on the principle that you're coming, you're gonna tell me your name, and you're gonna get 100,000. The bank makes the terms, signs the contracts. Therefore, if you imagine and treat the Union as a bank, the European Union must also set its terms. And she made the terms. For the sake of clarity, the conditions are clear and simple: you are to obey the law as the ruling majority, obey the constitution, care for independent media - and that is all the European Union wants. Just do it, and then there will be no need for such a debate. My question is this: as regards the issue of supervision, the steering committee to supervise (the bell) the spending of funds from KPOs, were there any comments from the European side in this regard? And when there's a bill... Thank you very much. ...executing KPO? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u234	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. I don't see a Member. Please, Mr Mariusz Gosek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about the National Reconstruction Plan today. I wanted to address the honourable Members of the opposition: get off your knees and stop practicing this teaching of shame. [[Applause]] We are members of the European Union and Poland is a sovereign, independent country. We have joined the European Union under certain conditions. First of all, these conditions are included and included in the Treaties. And I will give you examples, for you also give examples. Did you know that in Germany, judges don't have immunity? And it's law-abiding. There is a Disciplinary Chamber in Poland, which is just deciding whether a judge can stand trial before a general court - and it is not a law-abiding court. Just because there's a chamber like this. National Judicial Council, another example. The judges in Spain are selected exactly like this, which has just been transferred to Mr Zbigniew Ziebra's Ministry of Justice project. So? There it is law-abiding, in Poland it is no longer law-abiding. All freedoms also end where Poland dominates. Example: transport and logistics. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What happened out there? Only because Poland dominated, as far as these European freedoms are concerned, were regulations introduced. We will never agree to the European dictatorship... Thank you. ...as Solidarna Polska, party of Minister Zbigniew Ziobra... Thank you very much. ...we will always defend Poland's sovereignty in the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u236	Please, Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u237	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The masks are down, the PiS is not only lying, as you are today, Minister, but speaking the Kremlin language. Examples? Here you go: Żyrinowski in 2014: Poland will lose the most due to sanctions. She should leave the Union. Herbs in August of this year: The presence in the Union is not at all price. Not much? [[What's the big deal? You'd sell anything.]] Putin in 2019: In a few years' time some Eastern European countries will be thinking about speaking from the Union. So? Two years later, Mr. Terlecki goes out and says, "If it goes the way it's supposed to go, we have to look for drastic solutions. The British showed that the dictatorship of Brussels bureaucracy did not suit them, and they turned around and left. Yes, you speak Kremlin today. This has nothing to do with the dialogue with the European Union (the bell) you spoke about. Are you aware that through such policies you are putting Poland not only at risk of losing high money - 57 billion euros, but also... Thank you. ...do you act against the state's right, the Polish state's right? Thank you very much, Member. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u238	Please, Mr Andrzej Szejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left supported the ratification of the Economic Recovery Fund, inter alia. so that the Polish county hospitals receive €850 million. Today they don't have the money, and the workers are on strike, the employees are protesting under the Prime Minister's law firm under the Sejm. This is your fault. As has already been said, many countries: France, Italy, Greece, Spain, Portugal, Belgium already got 13% measures guaranteed in KPO and can spend them, and in Poland the budget is hollow, health care does not work, and you no longer want this money. The Minister said great success. The Prime Minister made billboards, and the money's gone. Why? Because you are violating EU law, you are not enforcing judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, you do not want to accept that EU law must be respected. Mr Kałużny said that Prime Minister Tusk (The Bell) was hugging Mrs Merkel. I saw Prime Minister Morawiecki hugging Merkel. Well, why don't you throw it at him? But I want to reassure you: in Germany, in the next elections, the Left will win - and it will be more normal, and it will be smarter, and it will be better for Poland. Thank you very much, Mr... I know that's what you're afraid of. [[The voice from the hall: Putin is happy about it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u240	Please, Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition. [[Andrzej, don't be nervous.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We should really have been debating KPO four months ago. Instead, the government hastily sent a project to the European Commission, which is a recycling of old ideas and projects in ministries. Old projects that will neither rebuild our economy after the pandemic, and even more so will not make it more resilient to future crises. An example is the fight against the climate crisis. The climate should be allocated 37% of the KPO. According to Green Recovery Tracker, it's only 28%, and if we only consider grants, it's down to 13%. Another thing is the principle: no significant harm, i.e. you cannot carry out projects that harm nature. This largely concerns infrastructure projects, water management, construction of new networks, network infrastructure. How? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you want to provide these 37% on the climate? How do they want to ensure that the principle of "do no significant harm" is respected? Do you guys even think about it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u242	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u243	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, I'm gonna say that it's been quite pleasant listening to you, if you're still here, because I don't see it that way. Those stories, right, you actually have to wait here, and this is where the Netherlands didn't put it, because it's for a small amount of money, and that's what the opposition owes, because it's where she kept the project in the Senate, and so on. But the real voice came out, the voice of the zobris, and we heard what the true position of the right-wing coalition was, if any. So talking about the Union's support by law and justice is even between fairy tales you have to put in. I have a very specific question, Minister, about what you were talking about, namely that the Commission has taken an interest in the parliamentary projects. As I understand it, it's about parliamentary projects that are de facto government projects and that... [[♪ The bell ♪]] And is the Commission also interested in projects with no print numbers, waiting for years, can we say projects that the Sejm does not undertake? Thank you. Marshal Witek does not enter or transmit print numbers. I think this is proof that the rule of law and the rights of parliamentarians are not good. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u244	Thank you very much. Please follow the time. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u245	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem is already real today. There were supposed to be 60 tenders under the railway infrastructure for 17 billion, and we now have only 3 billion available for distribution. And it's your fault, Minister. From this point on, I also want to categorically oppose all the time comparing the European Community to an ATM. We're just talking about money. But this is also a catalogue of certain values, this is also a pacta sunt servanda principle, which is when we joined this community, we agreed to respect the law. And today, the only way to get money from KPO to Polish accounts is by restoring constitutional order. These voices of Solidarna Polski, which sound here on behalf of PiS, make residents, for example. my voivodship cannot count on PLN 4 billion, which e.g. help in the fight against the tragic situation of ZOZs or with transport exclusion. Honestly, this money just won't be there because you're going on a collision road with the rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u246	Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, MEPs from all major European Parliaments recommended that the European Commission and the Council of Europe approve the Polish National Reconstruction Plan. So I have a question: Has responsibility for the economic situation of Poland and all our citizens rested on you today, Prime Minister? I also have a question for you. Prime Minister, stop being afraid. Zbigniew Ziobra. This meeting lasts three days. Stand here, at this point, and tell me why you submitted a request to the Constitutional Court regarding EU law and Polish law? Prime Minister, stop being afraid, because if Poland does not receive this money, it will be your fault, as we all know very well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u248	Thank you, sir. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! As I listened to you, as a live picture appeared in front of my eyes of the joyous kissing of the bunny towards the Easter pate. Really no specifics, no stories. Let me give you an example. In fact, the Commission, from the beginning, and all of us who participated in the hearings, have been accusing the basic thing. The NPO must be structured as follows: reform, investment and indicators for which it can be verified that they have been achieved. There were no reforms or indicators. An example? You are forecasting a rapid increase in the share of renewable energy sources. How are you going to achieve this in six years? Currently installed power in RES, and it installed, not run, it is 14.2 (Bingle) GW. You're about to double it in six years. So what? You want to undo the reform and actually make it available to wind power, land power? And the question at the end is, how much have you spent a conto KPO? Thank you very much. The eligibility of expenditure has been in place since February 2020. I'm sure you've already spent everything that's supposed to be an advance. Go ahead and finish it, Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u250	And you're welcome, ladies and gentlemen, because everyone won't be able to ask questions. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We've listened to your story of liquid, learned, in part only about KPO. Please answer to the Poles and Poles when you know that the means will eventually appear in Poland, from which Poles and Poles will be able to use them. And if anybody bothers you, please give me those Riders of the Apocalypse who, in the government, may also be interfering with the acquisition of these resources. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u252	Thank you, sir. Thank you so much for the time regime. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u253	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will refer to the statements of the Minister and the representative of the PiS Club calling for cooperation. If you worked together during your governments with the opposition and used our good solutions, today with our credibility outside as a country we would all be in a completely different place and perhaps you would not have any trouble today with what you are doing being accepted by the European Commission. And I have a question for the Minister. In my previous term of office, I met the expectations of what the European Commission is pointing out today as a failure. You are talking about the fact that the Commission is pointing out the issue of legislation as a failure, and in particular attention is paid to the parliamentary projects. Let me remind you that, in that term of office, I have tabled twice a bill on economic legislation, which includes. committed that the parliamentary projects should be consulted with representative, professional or professional organisations. And how did you vote then, Minister? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm pretty sure it's against. And today, the European Commission requires us to do so. And that's an example of your work. You don't use good opposition solutions at all, and you can't prepare them yourself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u254	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u255	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When I examine the National Plan for Reconstruction and Enhancing Immunity, I wonder why in the rhetoric of the Prime Minister and his ministers, the latter member of the name is missing somewhere, and why this giant European undertaking is making some perverted sense. The European recovery programme focuses primarily on the future and aims at introducing safeguards. One of the elements of this programme is to improve the ability to use cybernetic services. In the introductory part of the document we read that 12% Poles never used the Internet at all, and 50% There's no access to it. The National Plan for Reconstruction and Reinforcing Immunity presents the tasks of improving digital transformation. However, I do not see any improvement in access for seniors and socially excluded people. This group will remain vulnerable in many aspects of life. Their access to health care services or administrative activities will still be limited. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How, then, does the government aim to improve the situation of seniors or digitally excluded for various reasons in the context of the task of improving resilience? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u256	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Jaskowiak. There isn't. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Mr. President, the pace...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to address not all Members of the Law and Justice, but all Members of Solidarna Poland. 'Cause actually it looks like they're the main brakes. The Prime Minister drives around Poland, he talks about the National Plan for Reconstruction, about its final version, about the fact that I will be satisfied with the conditions of the European Commission. And those are the terms I wanted to ask you. After all, we all know here in the Chamber that the condition of the European Commission is that EU law must be respected, which we have committed to and, above all, the execution of the judgments of the TEU. So I ask you, Minister Ziobra and Prime Minister, when will they eliminate the Disciplinary Chamber? This is one of the conditions laid down by the European Union. Because if they don't kill her, and she's still gonna work the way she works, we're never gonna get that money. This is a fundamental issue: you do not comply with EU law, you pass it to the opposition (the bell), and you are really pursuing Eastern politics, Putin, in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u258	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u259	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Security Committee. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We know that money for Poland has been blocked by the Union for several specific reasons. So I'm going to ask the Prime Minister straight away: Will you eliminate the Disciplinary Chamber? You're the Prime Minister and you're the one making the decisions. Or is it someone else? Will you stop prosecuting independent judges? I know it's the Minister of Justice who's after them, but the head of this department is yours, isn't it? Or not to you? Do you intend to influence the withdrawal of Zbigniew Ziobra's application to TK which undermines the European Convention on Human Rights? Please answer these questions. Yes or no? Because if you don't, the nation won't get the money and you have to say it straight: you won't get 57 billion euros because I'd rather chase judges and break the law. Which one of you will take responsibility for this historical misfortune you bring to? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You, Prime Minister? Or is it someone else? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u260	Thank you, Member. Mrs Iwona Hartwich, Civic Coalition. Mr... [[Yes, you were an MP.]] Please, Mr Piotr Boris.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u261	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are here today, in the presence of Members, to discuss what you really have prepared under the National Reconstruction Programme. For all we know, this program, which Poles and Poles count on in the crisis, is judged as one of the last. What are the real reasons why the European Commission is dealing with your material with such a delay? Isn't it the government's fault, Minister? Is it a matter of substance, of how have you dealt with previous programmes, from which the funds were distributed from the party key, and are not the subject of an analysis by the European Commission? Or is this a question of the rule of law, that is, of everything that is the most specific problem and which is at risk of losing money by Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would ask for a very precise answer to that question, Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u262	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Iwona Hartwich, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have such a simple question: How much money is provided for people with disabilities within the Polish Deal? Will people with disabilities and their families eventually see you in Poland giving away the fund stolen from the weakest - the solidarity fund? Disabled people are still waiting for assistants, disabled people are waiting for rest. We still don't know what this cheating bill is all about. Two years ago, 520 PLN was proposed. None of the families have even saved a penny until today. You promised to help your mothers in early retirement. You were supposed to give them money in the amount of care. You don't do that. You win... There was a ruling by the Constitutional Court. You promised to help families who care about adults with disabilities. Today you're not doing it either. There hasn't been a government more disgraceful and thieving than the PiS government. Question is, when are you gonna give the disabled back the stolen money? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u264	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dolniak. There isn't. Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u265	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the debate on the National Plan for Reconstruction, you did not listen to our comments, you did not listen to the comments of local governments. During the ratification of the National Reconstruction Plan, you rejected all our amendments. That is why today you are having particular, colossal problems with the European Commission's approval of this programme. But I have a specific question for the Minister. In addition to EUR 25 billion, Poland can reach 32 billion of good loans, a well-interested loan spread over years. Today, you've applied for 12 billion. My question: Don't we want, we don't need this 20 billion euro for Poland and Poles? How much good could it be for health infrastructure for EUR 20 billion? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "Are you sure we don't need the money?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u266	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u267	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A few months ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki stood on this platform. He talked about his alleged success because he negotiated billions of euros for Poland. Western European countries are already getting this money to help entrepreneurs, support health services, for ecology, and the PiS government is so effective that Poland can also get - only that punishment. You are doing great damage to Poland with your brawl. We will all have to pay EUR 1 million a day for this. What you're doing is not a defense of sovereignty. It's just ignorance, irresponsibleness, maybe even stupidity. I was thinking that if you imposed such huge penalties on Poland, you should pay them out of your own pockets, [[Applause]] Mr Kaczyński's pockets, Mr Morawiecki's (The Bell) and the whole team who are trying to get Poland out of the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u268	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u269	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One thing that's worked so far is propaganda. 5962,000. For what? For TV spots, including 1.5 million for TVP spots. 2 billion wasn't enough, you've added 1.5 billion from KPRM. BGK - 4224 thousand For what? Billboards. Since May there have been billboards all over the country: Poland counts, 770 billion for Poland. There is for propaganda, but the Fund for Reconstruction, which is the means that you should really manage, as it wasn't, isn't. Minister, are these all the funds, the 10 million you spent on propaganda? Second thing. On what legal basis does BGK spend its funds to promote (the bell) European funds that you have not negotiated so far? You don't have an approved KPO. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u270	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u271	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is no denying that you are in a very difficult situation, because you are defending here a program of roughly PLN 250 billion. This is the biggest one-time aid program in Poland's history, and actually there is no one in this room from your party to support you. No one. There's a nice minister in government benches, but from health. It means that there are serious concerns after all... [[That the Minister would get sick.]] ...that the nerves and tension associated with this discussion will not require any medical intervention. [[Applause]] [[An anesthesiologist needs it.]] But seriously, Minister, I want to ask you how you're going to solve this circle quadrature. On the one hand, you have a prime minister who has applied to the Constitutional Court - a stupid motion, because we all know that if the tribunal approves his proposal to have national law over EU law, we will not get any money. On the other hand, you have Zbigniew Ziobra (The Bell) with a group of acolytes who are screaming, puffing up very patriotically and saying that they will defend Poland's independence and sovereignty. I wanted to ask you how you're gonna get out of this trap so that Poland can get that money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u272	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki. There isn't. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The National Reconstruction Plan was to be a great opportunity for the economy, for hospitals, for other areas of life that were most affected during the pandemic. This help is very much needed. Everyone was counting on her and waiting for her. I think they're counting on her less now. Quality changes were an important requirement for these projects. The idea was that what this money was going for was modern technologies, changes in the operating system and a number of others. For several months there was a discussion, former parliamentary teams. Unfortunately, the Ministry under your direction was indifferent and reluctant to discuss it, so we can say today. And no one knows when that money's gonna be today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You said it was the Senate's fault. And why didn't you say the main fault was breaking the rule of law? Why? Are you ashamed of that? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u274	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u275	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The lack of credibility of this government is appalling. And that the government wakes up demons Just to win the parliamentary elections. Elections that lead us to the same situation we had in the 18th century. And then the Sarmatians said how great they were, in their accounts, and they didn't see what the whole world looked like around them. Now we have the same situation. A new marketplace is born. This new marketplace leads us directly to Putin. And this lack of credibility also translates into a lack of credibility inside. How are we supposed to take it seriously, for example? increase from 18 GW of energy to 23 GW of energy, as you just said, with network investments of 300 million, as we see in this recovery plan? And we know very well that we already have a problem, for example. with connections. How to treat as a credible government which in 2015 suspended (the bell) onshore, or windmills, and now says: let's save ourselves, windmills are needed? Do you know how long it takes to invest in windmills? At least 5 years after the investment decision has been taken. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u276	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! You enjoyed the speech by President von der Leyen. I wonder if the Minister has listened until the end of this speech, because the President has twice stressed that the Member States The European Union must comply with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. And in the context of Mr Szczerby's speech, which reminded me of the 10 million you spent on promoting EU funds, I wanted to ask you: Why are you pretending that this 770 billion PLN will fall from the sky? Because on any of these billboards, on which you say that Polish villages, cities, Polish families will get, attention, from the Chancellery of the Prime Minister 770 billion PLN, there is not even the smallest EU flag. I mean, aren't you so embarrassed as a representative of the government that the government of a proud European state is acting like a little crook? And the last. I would ask the Minister to hand over a list of milestones for me and Mr Mark Owl. We asked for this a month ago at the subcommittee meeting on EU spending. [[He's got his interpellations now.]] I'm asking that this list be sent to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u278	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u279	Dear Marshal! I'll have a list of milestones, too. But I want to say first: you have no success. For the last six years, you've been spending the money the Civic Platform has negotiated. [[Applause]] Over the last 17 years, Poland has received EUR 200 billion, contributions EUR 40 billion. Thus, the account per balance: EUR 140 billion, EUR 600 billion negotiated, but not by the States. You negotiate, negotiate, blackmail, tell us what you need PLN 2 billion each year for television to show. And yet there is no euro. People are waiting for that money, local governments are waiting for that money. We need (the bell) a lot of investments, and so do local governments. I wanted to ask you, when are you guys gonna get to work when you're finally negotiating and there's gonna be money? When will the anti-LGBT resolutions be revoked, as in Podkarpacie, which could lose 10 billion PLN from this perspective? I subscribe to all the words that they have spoken in this debate, among others. Mrs Leszczyna, Mr Protas, Mr Owa and Mr Rosati. Get to work, because for now it's Poland in ruins because of you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u280	Thank you very much, Member. The last question is asked by Mrs Magdalena Filiks, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened here today - not only here, because in the regime television too - a fairy tale about the fact that the Senate is actually the reason we don't have any money. [[Lie!]] So I'm going to eat a quote from July 23, Waldemar Buda, who says: From May, the European Commission and I have been discussing the final shape of individual milestones and indicators. We look forward to the end of the Commission's action. We hope that Polish KPO will be accepted in July. That means the Senate didn't bother you until July. In August, Minister Buda, at the meeting of the finance committee, assured us that this was a matter of a week, and said that we should not panic. It's September. There's no funds from KPO. There isn't, because you're breaking the law. And the truth today is that you needed judicial reform just to get your hands on the DA's office, the judiciary, and the courthouse to ensure that you had no criminal record, [[Applause]] To ensure impunity for all your Obiets and criminals. That's what you needed the courts for. In Poland, until today, there is no sensible reform of the judiciary that would improve this dimension. And the truth is that today, Poles and Poles pay such a price for it (the bell) that you want to have impunity for the Obietki. I will just remind you that the aim of the European Union is not to ensure impunity for any organised criminal group in Europe. The European Union has stood, stood and is to uphold the civil rights of Europeans and Europeans, not to protect... Thank you very much. ...that you don't go to jail for the scams you've been doing for the last six years. That's why. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u282	Thank you. That was the last question. I now invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy of Mr Waldemar Buda.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, this debate is disappointing. Nothing's changed, unfortunately. [[It's your job, too.]] A lot of emotions and nerves resulting probably from these fading polls and dissatisfaction with the observation of the Law and Justice polls. [[Get some sleep and get to work.]] Fortunately, it is the Poles who judge our work. The results we see in these polls. [[You're lying. That's why you're lying. You steal and lie.]] Non-supporting the National Reconstruction Plan in the Sejm. Locking him up in the Senate. Lobbying for taking funds from the European Commission in Brussels. [[Don't lie to me.]] And after all, coming here and pretending to be highly concerned with European means for Poland. [[Marshal, why is he lying?]] You're the last to fight for these measures. If you hadn't minded, it would have been a lot easier, I guess. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Go to work, Minister. That's what they pay you for.]] [[This is an outrage!]] [[You didn't answer anything. I'm sorry the Minister has nothing to say.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u284	I'm asking you to calm down. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The European Commission sets out clear actions to make the transfer of funds to Poland conditional on the National Reconstruction Plan. These include among others: without questioning the primacy of EU law over national law, the withdrawal of the proposal from the Constitutional Tribunal, the implementation of all decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union. At the same time, your actions indicate a high degree of probability that you will not follow the recommendations. At the same time, by the government's actions, the payment of the measures in question is delayed until all issues have been clarified. Please answer whether all the conditions set out by the European Commission will be met. Did the government assume a delay in paying and spending funds to KPOs? Will this act result in some of your demands not being introduced? What if the funds are not paid to the KPO and does the Prime Minister have an action plan on where he will obtain the funds or whether he will give up the KPO completely?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u286	A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 36th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The formal request by Mr Grzegorz Braun for a break in the proceedings has become pointless. Members' statements will be made at the end of this day.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u287	Declaration on Helena Marusarzyna - Polish ski champion, member of the AK, on the 80th anniversary of death. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Beautiful, young, brave and extremely talented Helena Marusarówna was shot by Germans at the age of only 23, 80 years ago, on 12 September 1941. The brilliant career of the seven-time Polish ski champion interrupted the outbreak of World War II. Helena Marusarzówna actively participated in the Resistance as a courier from the very beginning, as well as carrying people through Slovakia in Hungary. She was captured at the Hungarian-Slovak border. She was sure the Slovaks wouldn't give it to the Germans. But that's not how it happened. She went to Prešov, where other members of her family had been arrested before. Her letters show that she was beaten and tortured in prison. She was shot in Pogórska Wola near Tarnów. Hello and praise the heroes!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u288	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! August and September are harvest times, which are undoubtedly the most expected moment of the year by every farmer. Each year, local and voivodship harvesters are held throughout Poland, during which harvest wreaths are presented. It is always an opportunity to celebrate and enjoy the effects of many months of hard work. Beautiful harvest wreaths have symbolized harvest and harvest for centuries. They were brought to the church to sacrifice, and the songs sung on this occasion spoke of the hard work of the harvesters and expressed concern for the effects of the hard work of the farmer in the future. As in the past, and today, harvest festivals are important for everyone, as they remind us that it is thanks to hard work of the farmer that daily bread comes to every table in the Polish house. It is important to appreciate the dedication, effort and determination of every man working in the field. It is also important that we show respect for the Polish farmer in our daily lives. We can do this in many ways, but the simplest of them is e.g. economic solidarity and informed consumer decisions. Let us appreciate the hard work of the farmer in the way St. John Paul II in the words: I pay tribute to the worked hands of the Polish farmer. With these hands, which out of the difficult black earth mined bread for the country, and in times of danger they were ready to guard and defend the land. I would like to thank all farmers for their hard work and their devoted work, the work of human hands that will never run out of bread. The harvest celebrations are always preceded by the Holy Mass, where we can solemnly thank God for the harvest. I thank the clerics for performing the Holy Mass in behalf of the farmers. As a Member of the Lower Silesian Land, I thank all local authorities, the Councils, the Circles of Rural Housewives, firefighters, flag posters, orchestras, folk teams and all from Lower Silesia who have engaged in preparing the harvest celebrations and contributed to preserving the continuity and cultural unity of generations.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u289	Bydgoszcz and Kujawsko-Pomorskie hospitals alert that the National Health Fund is taking action to enforce from hospitals the funds received for operations, treatments and other medical procedures which could not be carried out due to restrictions on those hospitals introduced by the Ministry of Health due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Two academic hospitals: University Hospital No. 1 im. Dr. Anthony Jurasz and University Hospital No. 2 im. Jan Biziel in Bydgoszcz is to pay 10 million PLN each. Multispecialist Municipal Hospital in Bydgoszcz im. Dr. Emil Warmiński - nearly PLN 3 million. Such action may adversely affect the level of remuneration of doctors, residents, nurses and representatives of other medical professions, which is still inadequate for the qualifications and role of society. This will certainly also make the economic and medical conditions of these important individuals for the whole region worse. 2021, like the whole previous year, was very difficult for all hospitals. According to the Ministry of Health's guidelines and the general epidemic situation, all units had to reduce their scheduled procedures, because the medical task number one was to treat patients with COVID-19. At that time, the Ministry of Health and the National Health Fund met the needs of hospitals and - although for obvious reasons they did not fully perform the other benefits - they were paid 1/12 of their annual contract each month. This enabled hospitals to maintain liquidity. In the initial period of the pandemic, it was assumed that unenforced treatments and operations would be made up after the reduction of the epidemic risk and after the release of hospitals from COVID duty. As you know, in the case of the vast majority of institutions, this has become impossible because each hospital has strict and limited capacity and a very short period of relative epidemic safety and a fall in infections. Now the number of infected people is rising again alarmingly, and the fourth wave of pandemics announced by the Ministry of Health will again reduce the planned activity. For the operation of hospitals and the whole Polish health service It is also not without significance that the Ministry has not yet met the wage expectations of specialist medical staff. I would like to point out that in connection with the pandemic many healthcare providers across Poland did not perform a standard number of benefits last year and this year. In most cases, fewer benefits were not due to the will or guilt of the medicinal product, but due to the introduction of lockdown and the concern of many patients before treatment during the pandemic. The recommendations of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Fund concerning the minimum or suspension of scheduled procedures were also of great importance. At the same time, in spite of the actual non-performance of benefits, medicinal entities incurred the same or even higher costs than in the corresponding periods prior to the pandemic of SARS-CoV-2. On the basis of the rules in force, the National Health Fund paid to those entities the measures that allowed them to operate on the day-to-day basis. They therefore no longer have the resources to return to the National Health Fund. Consequently, it is necessary for the Ministry of Health, together with the Government, to ensure the financial condition of those medicinal products which cannot, by their own fault, perform standard benefits. I therefore ask the Minister of Health and ask him to answer the following questions: 1. How does the Ministry of Health intend to help hospitals and other healthcare units financially in 2021 which could not perform contracts due to changes in their activities and restrictions on the COVID-19 pandemic introduced by the Ministry? 2. Is it possible not to receive pre-financing to Bydgoszcz and Kujawsko-Pomorskie hospitals which proved impossible because of pandemic restrictions? Is this possible also for all other health care institutions in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, especially for units managed by county authorities? 3. What packages and protective measures for hospitals are prepared by the Ministry of Health in connection with the fourth wave of the COVID-19 pandemic?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-15-sejm-36-3.u290	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. At this end we concluded the 36th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting shall be drawn up at the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 37th session of the Sejm, convened on 15, 16 and 17 September 2021, was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 15 min 01]]
