ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u1	Please take your seats. I open the twenty-seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Viktor Durlak, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Senator Alexander Sweed and Senator Richard Świlski to be the secretary of the sitting. The list of speakers in the sitting room will be led by Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Senator Ryszard Świlski in room 217. Dear Senators! In view of the epidemic, after consulting the Senior Convention, I decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held simultaneously in a traditional way and using means of distance communication, in a remote way. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Senators gathered in the sitting room and in room 217! I'd like you to sign up for questions and votes in a discussion with the senators of the secretaries. I would remind you that in the sitting room it will be Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Senator Viktor Durlak, and in Senator Ryszard Świlski and Senator Alexander Szwed. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPad within the Senate building. I understand that all countries in the sitting room and in room 217 have this application disabled. Incidentally, we considered at the Senior Convention meeting that the next session, August, should try to hold in one Chamber, plenary. If there is no dramatic deterioration of the epidemic situation or there are other events that are difficult to predict, then the next August meeting, very abundant, because we already have more than 20 points, is likely to take place in this one room. However, final decisions will, of course, be taken by the Convention. The Senators taking part in the meeting remotely! In turn, I ask you to make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and that your cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and voices in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting that they start voting, so-called. polling in the Webex system causes a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you that you need to press 2 buttons after the vote, in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted. [[Voting No 1]] And we assume that so many are attending at this point in time. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 10 July 2021, Mr Tadeusz Lewandowski, Senator IV and VI of his term of office, and Member I of his term of office died. He was a member of the Committee on National Economy, the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Senators' Affairs in the fourth term of office. He was a member of the Committee on National Defence and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the late Senator. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its thirty-third meeting on 24 June 2021, adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments; to the Act amending the Act on the execution of economic activities in the field of manufacturing and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police goods and technology; to the Act amending the Act on the Wheels of Rural Houses. In addition, at the same meeting, the Sejm adopted part of the Senate's amendments to the Act amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family; to the Act amending the Law on specific arrangements related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws; and to the Act on the amendment of the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws, the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act on the amendment of the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act on the amendment of the Act on the Education System and the Act on the Financing of Educational Tasks. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-fourth, twenty-five and twenty-sixth Senate meetings in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I would remind you that the bill to be discussed in paragraph 6 was introduced by the Council of Ministers as an urgent project. In this case, the time limit laid down in Article shall not apply. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. I propose that points two, four, five, eleven, thirteen and fourteen of the draft agenda be considered, even though the committee's reports on these matters have been submitted at a later date than those laid down in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the twenty-seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that immediately after considering item one of the agenda, i.e. If we agree to appoint a Ombudsman, we will proceed with the vote on this matter. I would also like to draw the attention of the senators to the fact that the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, during the examination of the Law on the amendment of the social security system and certain other laws, the second item on the agenda, saw the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure presented a proposal for a legislative initiative. This initiative is included in print No 460. I ask all senators to be present for this item on the agenda, as we will then vote on the possible extension of the agenda for this initiative. I would also like to inform you that, in the event of an extension of the agenda, the vote on this draft law will be held immediately after its consideration. I would like to inform you that also after consideration of the point concerning the amendment of the power market law and certain other laws, point 13, the vote on this matter will be held immediately after the end of this point. Ladies and gentlemen, on the second day of the meeting, we will begin by considering item 18, i.e. information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2020, together with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. On the same day, we will consider point seven, i.e. the Act amending the Act on the Agency for Medical Research and some other laws, and the 11th, i.e. the law amending the law on administrative procedure. In addition, on the second day we will begin to consider the twenty-second point, i.e. to agree to the appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals. The vote will take place immediately after consideration of this item. The remaining votes will take place at the end of the Senate meeting. In addition, I would like to inform you that the third day of the meeting will begin with the joint consideration of points 20 and 21 of the first, i.e. reports of the National Radio and Television Council and information of the National Media Council. Today at 1:30 p.m., at the request of the PiS Club, a break will be ordered by 3:00 p.m. And these are all the communications I wanted to give you. Right now, I would like to give the floor to Senator Hamerski, who has a brief speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 19 June a tragic fire took place in Nowa Biała in the district of Nowytarski. Immediately after this event I've allowed myself to send your mailboxes to send an appeal for the support of the firefighters. From this point, on this occasion, I thank you, Mr. Marshall, I would like to thank all those who responded positively to my appeal, sincerely on behalf of the firefighters and my own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. And that's how we got to the beginning of the session. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman. According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland ombudsman is appointed by the Sejm with the consent of the Senate for 5 years. According to Art. 3 (1) (a) 4 of the Act of 15 July 1987 on the Ombudsman, the Senate shall adopt a resolution on the consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman within one month of the date on which the resolution of the Sejm on its appointment was passed to the Senate. The resolution of the Sejm on the appointment of the Ombudsman was forwarded to the Senate on 14 July 2021 and is contained in Senate printing No 456. The Sejm has called to this the position of Professor Marcin Wieck, who I welcome to our room. The candidate's life story is included in the seym print No 1361. I would like to remind you that the Senate may, before adopting a resolution on the consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman, call on the candidate for this position to provide explanations and answer the questions of the senators. Would any of your senators like to ask Professor Marcin Wiąck or ask him to explain? You asked Senator Bosacki to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Dear Professor, Your candidacy after a year of unsuccessful attempts to select an ombudsman, to fill this extremely important for the Polish constitutional order of office, has a chance to end this 11-month pat. Therefore, I would like to ask you and ask you for as serious as possible, although probably not the size of a university lecture, to answer the question: what is your concept of working in this office? How much do you want to benefit from the experience of your predecessors? And as at this difficult time, crucial in terms of the protection of human rights and citizens in the Republic of Poland... Could you give us your powers to perform this office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u5	Thank you very much, senator. If you don't mind, Professor... The question was also asked by Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Staneck, and since I don't see any more questions available at the moment, I will ask for the question and then ask for an answer. And if there's any more questions, in the next round, we're gonna have them... [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Dear Mr. Marshal, Mr. Candidate, I would like to ask specific, detailed questions, so perhaps it would be better if you introduced yourself and then I would proceed with the questioning.]] You're welcome. Professor, you have the floor. Normally, we do not limit the speaking time of our guests, but given your academic experience and social expectations, which you see here in the form of numerous cameras and cameras, I ask for a certain content of speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u6	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I stand before the High House today with the intention of giving your consent to appoint me as an ombudsman. I stand, on the one hand, with a sense of gratitude for the broad and responsible political compromise, which is manifested at this stage by the resolution of the Polish Sejm on this matter, on the other hand with great humility and awareness of the key role of the Senate in the process of ending this multi-month dispute and, above all, undesirable from the point of view of protecting the freedoms and human rights of the vacancy. I therefore thank you for your presence and your willingness to hear basic information about me, about my intentions and views on key issues from the point of view of exercising the role of ombudsman. Allow me to introduce myself first. I am a lawyer specializing in constitutional law and human rights issues. Since 2017, I have been running the Department of Human Rights at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw. 12 years ago I received a PhD in legal sciences and in 2013 a PhD in habilitation. I am currently a professor at the University of Warsaw. In addition to my scientific work, I carry out expert professional duties at the Office of the Supreme Administrative Court. I don't belong and I didn't belong to any political party. I consider myself to be a man of independent and independent scientific activity, seeking and promoting the truth, and ensuring proper legal protection for those seeking this protection in judicial and administrative proceedings. I am convinced that this is a decade-old theoretical preparation and practical experience that concerns the contemporary human rights issue, and that I could make useful use, together with my colleagues from the Ombudsman's Office, of the actions of this constitutional body of the State for the benefit of the beneficiaries. In my previous statements, I stressed the importance for me of clarifying and developing the direction of the Ombudsman's action in order to effectively support people with a legitimate sense of exclusion, e.g. disability, age-related illness or infirmity, homelessness crisis, and personal beliefs or worldview. Human rights are derived from human dignity, human dignity, respect for which is the individual and collective duty of all of us. I assure you that at the Ombudsman's Office, if I have the honour of being appointed to this office, I will open the door wide to those in need of advice, support or procedural action. I also see the need to step up the Ombudsman's efforts to implement human rights such as: the right to live in a clean environment, the right to peacefully demonstrate its views or its dissatisfaction, the right to an independent but efficient and fair court, the right to freedom of business, the right to access cultural goods, the right to health protection, especially at a time when we are struggling with pandemics. As ombudsman, I would like to base my actions on the 3 pillars of dignity, equality and dialogue that define them. The first two determine the standard attitude of the state towards the subjects of its empire. They shall also determine the position of the Ombudsman in relation to those seeking his support. In turn, the slogan "Dialog" calls for agreement and calls for joint efforts by public authorities and social organisations to improve understanding, guarantee and respect for human rights in Poland. I would also like to stress that I appreciate and intend to continue the efforts that have been made in our homeland in the last 30 years to bring us into the family and to put in a family of tolerant and conscious societies with the highest legal culture, respecting human rights based on the achievements of contemporary international law and modern constitutions. Polish efforts in this area should be disseminated. At the same time, I strongly advise against, and as a spokesperson, I would object to imposing values such as the effectiveness of taking over the citizens of the Republic of Poland by mechanisms of legal protection arising from international law, including the treaties which constitute the European Union. I stress that since the beginning of my scientific activity I have presented, and I continue to support it, the view of the primacy of our constitution over all international agreements. However, even tough followers of such a position are not authorized to seek apparent contradictions between the Polish Basic Law and the international treaties, contradictions the consequences of which may jeopardise the stability of the human rights protection system. I call on individual public authorities to seek solutions to current legal and political problems in a spirit of compromise and to feel responsible for the long-term effects of their actions. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with Article 208, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 of the Constitution, the Ombudsman defends the freedoms and human rights of the citizen as defined in the Constitution and in other normative acts. I assure you that if the senators agree to appoint me to this responsible office, I will do my best to carry out this task with the greatest sacrifice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u7	Thank you very much. The question is... I don't know if your marshal is ready to ask a question. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Yes.]] Good. You ask a marshal, and you prepare Senator Kwiatkowski, then Bogdan Klich and Jolanta Hibner.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Dear Professor, On 14 July, the Ombudsman, Adam Bodnar, sent a letter to the European Union Commissioner for Justice, Didier Reynders, on the non-execution by Poland of EU directives on the rights of suspects or accused persons. It's about providing a lawyer before questioning. There is currently no legal option in the country and no independent body to say that this has happened. If you need to present any additional circumstances, explanations and cooperation with the Commissioner for Justice, will you cooperate in this matter? That's my first question, and I have three. This is the first one if you...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u9	Good. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, in our legal system, European Union directives have not been fully implemented, which, in general terms, concern the status of accused and suspected persons. The point is in particular that, according to the Constitution, according to international standards, the right of defence should be granted to a human being from the first moment he contacts law enforcement authorities. Unfortunately, the Polish criminal law is not fully consistent with such a standard, and the standard is derived from the directives we are talking about here. There's a problem. especially that there is a need to adapt the conceptual network of these Directives to the conceptual network of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The person accused or suspected, or suspected, are such concepts as are used by the Code of Criminal Procedure, and they should be properly referred to in the terminology of these Directives. Such persons should enjoy these rights, especially the right to an attorney, the right to agree with a lawyer. There is also a problem that the right to use the defence should be subject to certain guarantees of confidentiality, confidentiality of the lawyer's contact with his or her principal, his or her client, and such guarantees of confidentiality do not fully implement the current provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, allowing for example. the involvement of the prosecutor in the interview with the proxy. And that's a problem to solve, too. As far as I know, there is also such a problem that sometimes someone is being questioned as a witness, and in fact this hearing is going to press charges against this person. So also the person who is testifying as a witness, not as a defendant or as a suspect, should have access to a proxy, because from a material point of view, She also has a need to communicate with her lawyer. There is still a legal gap to the extent we are talking about, namely that the person detained, who was subsequently released and not charged, has, from a formal point of view, the right to appeal to a court which could verify the correctness of the detention. But on the other hand, that person doesn't have access to the case file, so he can't be 100% sure. , for what reasons This arrest has occurred. And here, too, there is a certain area for development by the legislator, which is required by European Union law. In conclusion, the answer to this question is: I share the view that these provisions of the directives have not been properly implemented in the Polish legal order, despite the passing of several years since they should be implemented. Therefore, if I am appointed as ombudsman, I will take action to bring these directives into force.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u10	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, there are others willing, so that we would ask that the next two questions be a little shorter.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u11	Okay... I mean, the answers, because the question I asked was short. I'm gonna ask two more questions right away. The first question, and in principle the second question, concerns the institution of incapacity. Poland has been attracted to attention many times Even at the UN forum That these provisions should be amended. In 2019, the Ombudsman joined even one procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal, claiming that total incapacity is incompatible with constitutional principles of dignity, human freedom and respect for private and family life. What's your opinion on this? That's the second question. And the third, short, question is: should the state support the in vitro availability of inefficient couples? Is this an element of the right to health protection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u12	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u13	The first question was about incapacity. I believe that incapacity is an institution that should be deeply reformed in view of the need to provide adequate assistance to people with disabilities. But there's a problem because... I'm aware that there are demands for a complete liquidation of the institution of incapacity, but that would require a change of constitution. Constitution in Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 2 clearly speaks of incapacity, i.e. the institution of incapacity is a constitutional institution. So if there were work to be done that I would wholeheartedly support concerning the liquidation of the institution of incapacity and the replacement of it, for example. for a support system which is, I think, more appropriate to today's needs of people with disabilities, these work should also take the form of work on the revision of the article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 2 constitutions. But I am fully in favour of the demand to change the current formula of incapacity, because it is true In particular, in the event of total incapacity, there may be a situation where the dignity of the person to whom the incapacity has been declared is unduly restricted. That is my view of the matter. As for the in vitro problem your marshal asked about, I'll say yes. Ladies and gentlemen, infertility according to the international standard is a disease, and since it is so, the treatment of infertility is covered by the health right referred to in Article. 68, Constitution. Therefore, since this is the case, the State should take the appropriate measures, as far as it can, leading to the exercise of the right to health protection in this area. As regards the financing of specific healthcare benefits from the State budget, Article. 68 Constitutions leave public authority and, above all, leave Parliament some freedom in this regard. I think that if Parliament made use of this freedom in such a way as to cover the treatment of infertility with budgetary funding, this would promote the protection of the right to health referred to in Article. 68 constitutions. This is a matter that should be resolved in Parliament. I also think that local government initiatives that are taking place at the moment should be welcomed. These self-government initiatives should be welcomed. As you can see, the principle of subsidiarity, the principle of the functioning of local communities in this case works as it should. That's my answer to that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u14	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u15	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me ask you just one question, which is why it's going to be a little more elaborate. Professor, first of all, thank you for meeting with the Wheel of Independent Senators yesterday. Recently in Poland we particularly express our concern for freedom of the press and other social media. Mr Ombudsperson, with regard to the article. 14 Constitution, which states that the Republic of Poland ensures freedom of the press and other social media, and art. 54, which provides that everyone shall be given the freedom to express their views and to obtain and disseminate information, and having regard to Article. 11 The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which provides that everyone has the right to freedom of expression, and this right includes the freedom to have views and to receive and communicate information and ideas without interference by public authorities and regardless of national borders, and that freedom and pluralism of the media are respected, having regard also to the conclusions of the Council and the meeting of representatives of the governments of the Member States meeting within the Council, with the participation of the Polish representative, in which we can read that freedom and pluralism of the media are fundamental values enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which are one of the pillars of democracy, because the media play an important role in ensuring transparency and accountability and have an impact on public opinion and on citizens' participation in decision-making processes... I would like to ask you whether, having regard to these documents and to the order of the District Court in Warsaw, the XVIIth Division of the Court of Competition and Consumer Protection of 8 April this year, in which the court took into account the application of the Ombudsman's application to suspend the execution of the decision of the President of the OKiK concerning the concentration and takeover by PKN Orlen of Poland Press, in which we will read that the failure to take into account the request of the RPO could lead to the implementation of the final decision by PKN Orlen, because the authority which is entitled to do so, which in principle should not take place in a democratic state of law... I would like to ask you, as the candidate for the Ombudsman, whether you will withdraw the application of the previous Ombudsman, Adam Bodnar, from the court in this case, thereby preventing an independent court and independent judge from taking a decision on this matter. I'm asking you, considering The fact that there is a bill in the Seym at the moment, which in practice can limit such pluralism by forcing the current owners of one of the television stations to withdraw from it, and this station is a source of objective information for many citizens of our country about what is happening in Poland and around the world. [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Marcin Wiącek: Thank you very much for this question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u16	Before I let you answer, I remind you senators that we have one minute to ask the question. Exception doesn't usually make the rule. The question was simple: will you withdraw or not? So, for example, answer yes or no, and this closes the topic.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u17	No, I'm not, and that's because I think it's the right thing to... If I have the honour of being elected ombudsman, I would not want to withdraw from the initiatives that have been brought in because of respect for my predecessor. This matter we are talking about is the result of a legal dispute between two experts, between the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and the Ombudsman. This legal dispute is where legal disputes should be settled in a democratic state of law, i.e. in a court of law. For this reason, I believe that this case should be left to an independent, independent court.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u18	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u19	Mr. Ombudsperson, your scientific achievements and academic position predestined you perfectly to perform this office. But I would like to ask you about your actions that will be taken if you get our approval under very difficult circumstances for the citizens. Civil rights and freedoms as a result of government actions have been radically limited in Poland over the last 6 years, both through law and through activities that are illegal. The right to information has been limited, for example, by the fact that public television has become government television, the right to peaceful demonstrations At least in such a way that the police are increasingly violently spreading these peaceful demonstrations without sufficient legal basis, the right to an objective court, in principle, by removing the protective umbrella over judicial independence. I would like to ask you, not whether you will intervene in those matters where citizens will address you, but how you will intervene, so that these civil rights are respected by the rulers and that this limitation of civil rights, before the power changes, is as small as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u20	You're welcome. Let me remind you once again: the questions last a minute, there will be a discussion, of course you can subscribe to them. I'm gonna keep it pretty strict.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u21	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! The Ombudsman's reactions to cases where freedom and human rights are infringed are different, may differ and they should be appropriate to the situation and to the opportunities that the Ombudsman has under the law. Of course, as I declared from the very beginning, when my candidacy appeared, I pledge that any person who feels wronged by a State who feels that his freedom or rights have been violated, his dignity has been violated, will receive adequate assistance from the Ombudsman's Office. What kind of help could that be? I mean, if it's like... With regard to persons detained by law enforcement authorities, it is appropriate here to be on the spot for the Ombudsman to be on the spot so that the representatives of the Ombudsman's Office are on the ground and ensure that the rights and freedoms of such a person are respected. On the other hand, in addition to such an individual, let's say, there is a need to respond to situations of infringement in general. Here I refer to my earlier answer to your Marshal's question about the fact that certain measures must also be taken to make the legal system more appropriate for the protection of the freedoms and human rights of such persons. This is an example of a situation where both an individual response, an on-the-spot response, and certain general actions and certain general speeches are needed. It's the same... The senator wanted to point out here an example of the law of the court. Well, it's the same in this case. It is the task of the Ombudsman to ensure that any person who feels that the right to court has not been properly obtained is assisted. One form of seeking such assistance is an emergency complaint to the Supreme Court. The Ombudsman is one of the authorities competent to lodge such an emergency complaint. I believe that this is a useful legal measure to strengthen the guarantee of the right to court. One problem is that, for reasons, let's call it, the budgetary Ombudsman is currently unable to fully guarantee the exercise of the right to an emergency complaint. And that would be my request too. I will address the relevant authorities as ombudsman in order to implement the Ombudsman's budget in such a way that the right to lodge an emergency complaint is not an illusory right. I think that's how we can talk about it today, because, as far as I know, about 8,000 requests for emergency complaints have been made to the Ombudsman and several dozen emergency complaints have been filed. It is important to make this measure real, so that it actually works the way it needs to. As far as judicial authority is concerned, I will be in favour of taking steps to comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 15 July, last week. I think we need a discussion on this subject, a discussion which should aim to find a compromise between the assumptions underlying the creation of such and not another model of disciplinary responsibility for judges, and the problems outlined in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u22	Thank you very much. Senator Hibner asks you a question in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u23	Thank you very much. Professor Bodnar was very active in actions concerning citizens' rights. Will you continue with all the cases that your predecessor has started and bring them to an end for the benefit of the citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u24	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! As I said, I believe that the successor of a particular office should respectfully refer to his predecessor. I believe that this respect should be shown above all in such a way that the cases which were initiated by the predecessor should be continued and concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u25	Thank you very much. The question is, Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u26	Professor! He said you mentioned here the overriding role of the Constitution over international agreements. Part of the Constitutionalists are questioning this. We have an art. 91 of the Constitution, which reads as follows: if this is the result of an agreement ratified by the Republic of Poland for the constitution of an international organisation, the law of Poland shall be applied directly. Such a basis for protecting human rights or assessing what is happening in a country is the accession to the European Convention on Human Rights and the declaration of recognition of the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights. Based on what I said, I'm gonna ask you two questions. Is there any way to challenge the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights? That's one thing. And who do you think the last sentence of the TSUE is binding on? Or all the organs? Is this just a legislative issue? And so, do you believe that the present activity of the Disciplinary Chamber is legal?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u27	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u28	Thank you very much. I, ladies and gentlemen, indeed... In my scientific activity from the very beginning I am in favour of the primacy of the Constitution over all other normative acts in force in Poland. This is also the position of the majority of representatives of constitutional law, and this is also the position of the Constitutional Tribunal, which has been expressed in several judgments, in particular in the judgment on the compatibility with the Constitution of the Treaty of Accession, in the judgment on the constitutionality of the Treaty of Lisbon. I would also like to remind you that the Constitutional Tribunal stated in 2005 that the institution resulting from European law, which is the European arrest warrant, was incompatible with the Polish constitution. In the case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal, the primacy of the Constitution is stressed. There's art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which states that the Constitution is the highest law of the Republic of Poland. On the other hand, indeed, there is an art. 91, which Mr. Senator mentioned, but nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, in the article. Article 91 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and paragraph 2. 3 We are indeed talking about the primacy of international law, but only before laws. The hierarchy of legal acts is presented precisely in such a way that international law takes precedence over national law, but rather against national law of the rank of law, rather than the constitution. And that's what he's been like forever, and that's my scientific view. I also find this view in the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal. Certain conflicts that may arise in this area, between international law and constitutional law, should be resolved in compliance with certain principles of loyalty. Ladies and gentlemen, in the preamble to the Constitution, there is a need for cooperation with all countries for the benefit of the human family. This recital should be read in such a way that the problems of inconsistencies between national law and international law should be resolved in such a way that the judgment of the court declaring non-compliance is final. And that is my view of this issue of hierarchy of sources of law. However, we are, of course, connected, as Poland, with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. The European Convention on Human Rights is an international treaty having the status of an agreement ratified with the prior consent of the law and challenging the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights... Well, first of all, there is no authority in our country that would have such competence. Well, maybe... I think that's a fundamental issue. There is no body that has the power to establish that the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights is incompatible with the Constitution. There are constitutional laws in some countries that allow this, but there is no such solution in our country. Moreover, I think that the European Convention on Human Rights was undoubtedly an inspiration to the creators of the 1997 Constitution, and it must therefore be assumed that the standard of protection of human rights resulting from the European Convention on Human Rights is in line with the constitutional standard. Therefore, I think it would be difficult to find a situation where there would be a discrepancy, although such situations have occurred. That's the kind of situation that's happened. Let me give you an example. Once, the Constitutional Tribunal stated that the requirement to authorise a press release is in line with the Constitution does not constitute an excessive restriction of freedom of expression. And the same complainant, who lost at the Constitutional Court, brought an action before the European Court of Human Rights and won. And the European Court of Human Rights stated that the obligation to authorize a press release was a violation of the Convention. Sometimes there's this kind of discrepancy. But I think they're rare. And allow me to comment on the question of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 15 July. This judgment indicates that the model of disciplinary liability of judges, the context in which this model was introduced, and the numerous other circumstances accompanying the change of law in this respect or their cumulation lead to a threat to judicial independence because of the fact that And here the standard of judicial independence is common, I think, for all states and for all international institutions, the minimum of judicial independence is that the judge cannot be held liable disciplinaryly or criminally for issuing a judgment. The judge, when giving a judgment, should realise that if he makes a mistake, that judgment may be annulled in the course of an instance, such a judge may be formulated, for example. so-called. Judge's point, but he can't be held accountable for his judgment. This is the minimum standard of independence. And this standard has been recognised by the Court of Justice of the European Union as being at risk. The Court found that the rules introduce certain risks in this respect. The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which we are talking about, is, in my opinion, addressed above all, although not only I'll be right back. For the legislator, because the implementation of these decisions, which were contained in that judgment, and those standards which were presented in that judgment, requires an amendment of the provisions, in particular the provisions of the Supreme Court Act. I think such an amendment is possible. It respects both the intention of the authors of the amendment, the creators of these regulations and the requirements laid down by European law. As the Ombudsman, of course, I will have an obligation to be involved in this discussion, but, as I said, the legislator is the primary addressee of this obligation. However, the obligation to apply Union law directly, the obligation to ensure the effectiveness of the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, rests on all public authorities, not only on legislators. Therefore, it seems to me that it would be safest for some of the guidelines contained in this judgment to be implemented, at least until then, to stop the work by the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u29	Thank you very much. I'd like your opinion on the question of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u30	I have two questions. The first is whether or not you will continue the rule, whether you will depart from the rule that your predecessor, Mr Bodnar, applied to the Constitutional Tribunal. He questioned the legitimacy of the Constitutional Tribunal and, as you know, did not refer any complaints to the Constitutional Tribunal. So it wasn't just declarative, but it was also important for the Ombudsman to function. He also had a negative opinion on the way in which the National Judicial Council was set up, but the contact between the Ombudsman and that council was not as important as in the first case. And that's the first question. The second concerns the use of so-called. the fruit of the poisoned tree. There was a time when Poland departed from such a principle that the evidence collected in the course of the unlawful action of law enforcement authorities or actions in violation of law were used in prosecution and judicial proceedings. Then the PiS, which is the current majority, led by Minister Ziobra, restored this principle that the evidence collected in violation of the law could continue to be used in the judicial process and in the prosecutor's investigation. This is mostly about wiretaps, not only, but mostly wiretaps. There's been a lot of cases where there's been illegal wiretap and wiretapping, and there's still a lot of stuff going on in the trial and in the prosecution... at all in the proceedings involving people who have been wired. So I have two questions. Do you think we should step away from this rule, that we're using it or... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much...]] ...that you use this kind of evidence, collected in violation and in violation of the law?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u31	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u32	Thank you. The first question concerned the Constitutional Tribunal. I am in the view that I see legal doubts regarding the legal basis for the appointment of 3 judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. I've made an expression of it in my scientific publications. But on the other hand, And this approach is also the result of my scientific activities and some of the research that I have carried out in this area. In the Polish legal order, there is no procedure to verify the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. And, on the other hand, in the Polish legal order there is a presumption of legality of the act, which is published in the Official Journal of the Laws. Therefore, in my view, questioning the validity of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal may undermine legal certainty. Besides, there's one more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, two years ago, a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on the rules was delivered. That's just an example I'd like to give you. On care provision for people taking care of children with disabilities. This judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal has extended the possibility of granting a care allowance, since previously the right to such a benefit had not been granted by persons who were entitled to a pension for incapacity to work. Thus, they were deprived of the right to provide care, and the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal opened up the possibility for such persons to receive care services due to disability. The composition of the Constitutional Tribunal issuing the judgment was such that it included those judges whose doubts were raised. Ladies and gentlemen, this case took place some time ago on the floor of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Supreme Administrative Court found that care should be granted to the beneficiaries of that judgment. That is what the Supreme Administrative Court said, and it applied that judgment. And in my opinion, seeing the fundamental, important doubts about the functioning or composition of the Constitutional Tribunal, it is also important to see the other side, the issues that I have said. That is my view of the matter. However, as far as composition is concerned, the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Xero Flor v. Poland, in which the procedure for the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal was challenged, not all, but those we are talking about. While this judgment is not yet valid, we are still waiting for a final ruling, I am of the opinion that, at least until the European Court of Human Rights has reached its final settlement, the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal concerned should refrain from ruling, particularly in matters of constitutional complaints. Oh, I'm sorry, the second question is the use of the fruit of a poisoned tree. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that, in the light of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, the standard of fair conduct, including criminal proceedings, is that the evidence collected in order to determine the facts must be obtained in a lawful manner. In the light of the Strasbourg standards, the use of evidence obtained unlawfully in court proceedings is a breach of the standards of a fair trial. And that's my view. I am skeptical of this regulation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was introduced a few years ago, but which allows such evidence to be used for a criminal court ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u33	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I have three short questions. What's your view? And what are you going to do? On the establishment of field agents, e.g. in all the voivodship cities, so that the ombudsman gets closer to the citizen? Second question: what is your view of the category of human sex? Is it biological or cultural and social? And the third question. In your introductory speech to my surprise, you did not mention one of the fundamental rights of man and citizen, namely the right to freely express religious beliefs. In recent years we have dealt with violations of this law in Poland. I remind you of the attacks on churches, the services, the faithful. What are you going to do in the future in order to restore the state, I would call it, freedom to express religious feelings?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u35	Thank you very much. As far as the field attorneys are concerned, I believe that right now... At the moment there are 3 delegations of the Ombudsman's Office: in Gdansk, Katowice and Wrocław. Indeed, the eastern part of Poland is very neglected in this respect. I believe that at least 2 such delegations should be established in the eastern part of Poland, e.g. Białystok, Rzeszów or Lublin. This is an issue that should be of interest to the new Ombudsman. This, of course, depends on the budgetary resources received. And I'm going back to what I said before. One of the ombudsman's priority actions, if I were to become a ombudsman, would be to ask certain authorities to implement the Ombudsman's budget. If it worked, then I'd turn to the Sejm. 'Cause that's the procedure. To create as many delegations as possible. Well, these budget resources are needed to create these delegations. As far as gender issues are concerned, I would not like to speak about matters of a biological nature which I do not know, but from a legal point of view, ladies and gentlemen, there are The law should, as I said... The principle of protection of human dignity results in the obligation to protect the dignity of every human being, his right to happiness, his right to respect, his right to function properly in society. Gender identity is one of the discriminatory criteria. It is not possible to differentiate people on the basis of gender identity, and therefore, in my opinion, there is no doubt that the freedoms and rights of transgender or non-binary persons should be protected to the highest extent. On the other hand, the question actually arises... The senator referred to the content of the Istanbul Convention, which was ratified in Poland. I believe that this convention contains many valuable regulations, for example. to protect victims of domestic violence. The implementation of this convention is largely in line with Poland's obligations arising from Poland's membership of the European Union. And indeed this convention is being applied. Recently, Parliament has passed a bill allowing immediate eviction of a person who is the perpetrator of domestic violence. This convention, as I say, including EU law, with the so-called. the sacrificial directive, which also has a responsibility to implement it on Poland, allows for strengthening the protection of victims of domestic violence. But there are some doubts that need to be taken into account. And, for example, The constitutional tribunal in Bulgaria, which I very much respect for its case law, stated the unconstitutionality of this convention precisely because of how it defines the issue that the senator has asked about. Finally, the question of freedom of religious belief. I believe that every man has the right to respect regardless of the sources of universal values. Freedom of conscience and religion is one of the freedoms closest to human dignity. Freedom of conscience and religion requires protection, and if anyone feels that his freedom of conscience and religion has been violated, then he must find help in the Ombudsman's Office. A person who believes that her freedom of conscience and religion has been violated in such a way that there has been an image of religious feelings, an expression of words, gestures, an act of contempt for the values that are close to him, would certainly, if I became an advocate, find support and assistance in the Ombudsman's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u36	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Breja's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u37	Thank you very much, Marshal. Professor! I'd like to ask you a question about lex TVN. In 2021 we have a government prosecutor's office, a de facto Sejm, a government tribunal, government television, government radio. There is no government Senate, and fortunately there is no government ombudsman. Question: "Does the draft law, lex TVN, in the opinion of the professor meet the standards of freedom of mass media, i.e. standards that are the basis of a democratic state?" The second question concerns the situation of women's strikes. We saw women beating with telescopic sticks. We heard about the girl whose arm was broken during the arrest. We saw protesting girls exported to commands located many kilometres from Warsaw in order to humiliate them, make their lives miserable, we saw protesting people locked in a boiler for many hours. In this case, the predecessor of the professor intervened. Question: will you also intervene in the matter of so much violated standards of detention, and this during demonstrations which, as it turns out, were legal? Because I will remind you that the Supreme Court a few days ago stated in its judgment that the ban on assembly during the pandemic was issued without a legal basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u38	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u39	Thank you. The first question concerned the draft amendment to the Radio and Television Act. I, considering this project, as should be the case in principle with all draft laws... It should be considered whether the proposed amendment complies with the general principle of proportionality. The principle of proportionality, which should guide the creators of all rights, is based on the assumption that, if the same objective can be achieved as a result of mild interference in freedom and human rights, this milder measure should be used. Reading this bill, one can learn that the intention of the creators of this project is to guarantee, strengthen the protection of public security, the security of the state. I, reading this project, wonder if the same goal could be achieved in another way, less questionable from the point of view of the values that you are talking about. And the answer to that question is this: it could be. And how? Well, for example. by introducing such a public security clause as should be included in the concession procedure. In other words, it is not an absolute ban, but an obligation to assess individual these circumstances where we are dealing with an entity outside the European Economic Area, i.e. an obligation to assess individual circumstances first by the National Radio and Television Council and later by an independent and independent administrative court. If the National Council of Radiophony and Television in such a form of regulation were to conclude that the granting of concessions on account of the company's capital structure could create threats to State security, this should be justified in its decision, but this decision would still be examined by the administrative court. This procedure, in my opinion, would on the one hand allow the aim of the drafters of this law to be achieved, of this project, and on the other hand would allow for the elimination of doubts about this law, which are raised. The senator's second question was about gatherings, about people being held at assemblies. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that one of the first steps I should take if I have the honour of being appointed as an ombudsman should be to speak to the chief police officer and ask him to meet and arrange seminars, training for police officers. Because sometimes it can be pointed out that there is a lack of sensitivity of officers towards those attending peaceful assemblies. As I said earlier, in answer to another question, the Ombudsman acts as the National Torture Prevention Mechanism. It is the duty of the Ombudsman to be on the spot if anyone has the conviction that in relation to power, e.g. With a police officer, he's being treated inappropriately. This is the role of the Ombudsman. The role of the Ombudsman is also to highlight and signal certain gaps in the law that exist. And I have also responded earlier to this question by answering your Marshal's question, so that I would like to return to it. It is also the role of the Ombudsman to point out that certain provisions which determine the relationship between police officers and persons detained, whether or not they are detention at the assembly, are in deficit to the extent that they do not fully comply with the standards of protection of freedom and human rights, in particular as regards the rights of defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u40	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Czelej's question from room 217, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u41	Thank you very much, Marshal. Professor, I have a quick question. What would your term of office be, if you were elected, different from your previous term of office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u42	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u43	Thank you very much. I'll be honest with you, I didn't think of it that way. I have a concept for doing business if I'm called to this office. I'll do my best. I have a lot of thoughts on the protection of freedom and human rights in our country. I intend to respond to any current problems that will affect the Ombudsman's Office. And I think a little bit, too, that when the term ends, it's also a derivative of the problems that will arise. As I said, any issue that will require a decision and which will require the intervention of the Ombudsman will be dealt with by me. This is also the way the former nuns of this office functioned. And I'm gonna simply do their job and work to protect freedom and human rights and to improve the situation of all those who feel excluded and who ask the Ombudsman for support. And this will be my priority, as the ombudsman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u44	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Danuta Jazłowiecski, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u45	Mrs. Marshal, Professor, I would like to ask you a question which Mr. Michał of Wrocław has prepared: will you act in defence of citizens' rights to demand that the current authorities of the state conduct themselves in accordance with the requirements and standards of the policy of independence of Polish energy from fossil fuels in order to prevent a climate disaster? This is a citizen's question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u46	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u47	Thank you kindly for this question, senator, as well as the author of this question. I, for a reason, mentioned the right to protect the environment as one of the ombudsman's priorities in my initial speech. Well, that's the duty that each of us owes. Our successors and future generations. And when it comes to this energy problem, 'Cause that's exactly what the question was about, so maybe I won't talk about all my environmental ideas, but I'll just focus on this one thing. First of all, I see that there is a plan that in the next dozen years a nuclear power plant will be established in Poland. I will, of course, be as competent as the Ombudsman has... I think this should be supported. Nevertheless, I see one problem, one that I can deal with as an ombudsman, concerning renewable energy sources and, in particular, wind power plants. Right now. It's been like this for a few years. The law on wind power plants is in force, which regulates the rules on which windmills can be located and how wind power plants can operate on land. This project... I'm sorry, this bill is based on the so-called. It's a 10H rule. This means that within a radius of 10 times the height of the windmill there can be no buildings. That's the rule in this bill. What did it lead to? More than 99% of Poland's territory does not meet these criteria and windmills cannot be placed there. In my opinion, this is a problem that I should signal to the legislator as a spokesman. I should signal that, however, this rule is perhaps too restrictive, perhaps there is a need for a more flexible solution, because the application of this regulation unfortunately leads to the fact that renewable energy sources are not fully used in Poland. Hence my idea of responding to this issue somehow. I think this case, the case of wind power plants, should be one of the priorities of this office.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u48	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u49	Thank you very much, Marshal. Professor, if your candidacy is approved, you will act for the citizens. We, the senators, also act in the name and for the citizens. I receive a lot of questions of one nature from these citizens, including today, and if they concern one issue, it seems to me, and even I am convinced that this issue is very important to citizens. I would therefore like to ask, on behalf of those who ask this question, whether they send e-mails containing such doubts, ask the professor what personal policy you are planning at the Ombudsman's Office. Including this, it is repeatedly asked whether you intend to replace the current Deputy Ombudsman with another person in your office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u50	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u51	Thank you. Thank you for that question. Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! If I become an attorney for civil rights, I'll become a member of the team. I'm gonna become a member of the team, and I hope this team accepts me. I would like to cooperate with the people who form the Ombudsman's Office, including the deputy Ombudsman. I very much value the experience and many years of work at the Office of the Ombudsman, Mr Stanisław Trociuk, and I value the activities of Dr Hanna Machinska's National Torture Prevention Mechanism in particular, and I also value the extraordinary knowledge of European law by Prof. Maciej Taborowski. And if you wish to continue working with me as a spokesman, I would be honored.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u52	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski, room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u53	Mrs. Marshal! Professor! I have two questions, one in the order of freedom, the other in the institutional order. Firstly, do you think that the formation of a conscience clause in Poland and the practice in this matter are satisfactory from the point of view of the individual's freedom of conscience? We remember one of the last judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015 in this case. The second point concerns your declaration to me that constitutional law, the Polish constitution has the primacy with regard to international rules. I am aware that we are often faced with violations of both rules and, in fact, the judgment of the TSUE concerning the construction of the Disciplinary Chamber and disciplinary liability of judges also concerns violations of the standards present in the Polish Constitution. It can even be said that the EUSF replaces the independent Constitutional Court in this respect. But that's not even my point, that's an explanation of the context of the question. And my question is whether you would be willing, Professor, not to participate, but to assume more real responsibility for drafting draft laws that would bring Polish law into line with the judgment of the TSUE. I am asking this question precisely because it is about restoring Polish constitutional standards in the field of disciplinary proceedings, hence your active role, taking up the role of host would make great sense and would be beneficial for you, and would also correspond to the rules of cooperation between the authorities. So I have a question as to whether you are willing to accept a more realistic responsibility for adapting the Polish law to the judgment of the TSUE in the form of preparing a draft regulation on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u54	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u55	Thank you. It's a question of conscience. Ladies and gentlemen, as spokesperson, I will be obliged to respect the legal status of this matter. The judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2015 on the conscience clause of doctors is an element of the legal status of this issue, which shapes the understanding of the issues of conscience clause in our country. This judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was based on the assumption that the clause of conscience does not have to be declared directly in the law, but is an immanent consequence of freedom of conscience and religion, namely freedom resulting from the article. 53 constitutions. This judgment was based on the assumption that it is an element of freedom for which it is not necessary to confirm it in the Act. Such a view may raise some scientific controversy and they are also the subject of comments on this ruling, but it is clear that this ruling shapes the state of law and that the Ombudsman should respect this approach presented by the Constitutional Tribunal. The second question concerning the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Here, too, let me share the view of the professor, the senator, that as regards the concept of judicial independence under European Union law, in particular Article. 47 The Charter of Fundamental Rights, which has been part of the Polish legal order since the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, and the independence referred to in Article. 45 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the content of these legal terms, independence, in one case and in the other case is coincident, is the same. And therefore, reading the arguments contained in the judgment of the Court of Justice of 15 July, one can ask a really rational question whether these doubts about independence would not be analogous if we talked about the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. And as for the execution of this ruling... Of course, if I have the opportunity and if it were the will of the public, I would be honored to take up the role of a person or institution coordinating the execution of this decision. Such a discussion, such work should take place with all parties, above all parliamentary parties, the Ministry of Justice and social organisations, which are involved in defending independence and judicial independence. I think I believe that there is a level of agreement in this area. I believe that it is possible to sit at the table together and think about how to correct this reform on disciplinary responsibility, so as to, on the one hand, make amends to the intentions of the creators of this reform and, on the other hand, withdraw from certain regulations which are the reason why the Court of Justice of the European Union has given such a judgment rather than another. I believe that it is possible to create such a compromise. And I am committed to the fact that if I become an advocate of civil rights, I will make such a proposal, I will make an invitation to all entities responsible for the shape of Polish law, interested in the shape of Polish law in this area, which we are talking about, for discussion. That's my answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u56	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u57	Thank you very much, Marshal. Professor, I would like to address this subject, which has already been mentioned, concerning public gatherings. This is about your assessment of the legal bases that introduced restrictions on freedom of economic freedom, civil liberties. I would like you to confront this with the case-law of the regional administrative courts, which have spoken in various respects in this matter, and to state your position on this matter. In my opinion, this is a fundamental problem when it comes to protecting constitutional rights and freedoms, especially since, as we hear, there is to be a fourth wave of pandemics and there is a forecast for a lockdown. This is something that public authorities are quite clear about. I would like you to develop this subject and, above all, the legal basis on which it was introduced. They, in my opinion, have been very questionable for more than a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u58	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u59	Thank you. Dear Senator, one of my fundamental constitutional principles is the principle of proportionality already mentioned by me. It was expressed in art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions. The starting point for assessing whether a restriction on constitutional freedoms and rights is admissible is whether this restriction has been introduced in the Act. Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 clearly states that the restriction of constitutional freedoms and rights should take place by law. With regard to freedom of economic activity, this issue is underlined in another provision, in Article. 22, which says that freedom of business can be limited only by law and only because of the important public interest. Freedom of assembly... Art. 57, which expresses this freedom, also stresses that the restriction of freedom of assembly can only be done by law. I have dealt with this issue scientifically and in my opinion, which I have expressed in my scientific work, the so-called principle follows from these provisions. the absolute exclusivity of the law on the restriction of constitutional freedoms and rights. And looking at the line from my perspective... Ladies and gentlemen, may I just add that the principle of exclusive law is based on such a concept that the restriction of freedom and human rights should be the result of a parliamentary debate rather than talks in the silences of ministerial offices. This is the source of the exclusive rule of law. In my opinion, this principle of exclusive law was not fully respected. As long as in the first days of the pandemic, when no one knew what was going on, when there were doubts what we are dealing with may have actually been justified by a rapid, rapid response to this situation by means of regulations, but at some point it was already clear what we are dealing with. And now I ask myself: was it really the situation that there was no possibility to hold a parliamentary debate and introduce these restrictions by law? I have no clear answer to that question. There seems to have been opportunities to create a statutory basis for such a lockdown. And what the senator was asking, is now that there's a risk of another wave of pandemic... Well, in my opinion, it seems that the law should already be prepared for this risk in a way that fully respects the constitutional principle. And such a principle, one of them, is the principle of exclusive law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u60	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u61	But I also asked this in the context of specific judgments of the voivodship administrative courts. [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Marcin Wiącek: Ah, sorry...]] And right away, one more thing that... We here, in Parliament, as you know perfectly well, Professor, have adopted numerous covid laws, around covid. Those laws weren't just about... I absolutely do not have the intention to question the validity of health protection in these statements, but I want it to be clear about the pure legal basis and way of functioning of the Polish state. And in the case of these various covid solutions, there was legislative interference in very different areas of public life, not necessarily closely related to social or public protection, public health, but coming out on the occasion of the revision in various aspects... Some say that many uncomfortable matters were dealt with at the time, which in the normal legal manner might have raised a greater discussion, which you mentioned in Parliament. And so I have the question: have you made such an assessment and will you evaluate legislation from the period, let's say, since April last year in the context of all these covid solutions, to what extent are they a threat to the purity of the legislative process and to the fundamental values and human rights enshrined in the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u62	I understand, of course. I'm sorry that I didn't comment on the case law earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, the case law of the voivodship administrative courts, as well as the general courts or the Supreme Court, which also resolve this problem, has shown that for years it has been assumed that the court has the power to independently assess the constitutionality of regulations and implementing acts with regard to laws. And the courts use that competence. The source of this competence shall be Article. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1st Constitution. The courts exercise this competence and the courts review the regulations, those which introduced individual restrictions on freedoms and rights at lockdown, and the courts refer precisely to this issue, which is the principle I mentioned, of the exclusive principles of the law. And by referring to this principle of exclusive law, courts repeal administrative decisions, e.g. health inspection of administrative penalties. They're relinquishing... That is to say, they refuse to impose fines in proceedings before common courts for breach of the rules in this respect. So it is the caselaw of the courts that coincides with what I was talking about, with this principle of exclusive law. And as for this covid legislation, which the senator wanted to ask you about, it is indeed clear that in many laws there have been some rules to consider whether they really... whether covid legislation is the best place and whether these solutions are really correct. The first thing I can think of is for example. amendment or establishment of rules for proceedings before courts. I am referring to an act that came into force a few weeks ago and which introduces in civil proceedings such a rule that, during the period of the outbreak and one year after its completion, the trial can take place, as a rule, only remotely, and the President may, in principle, at any time, move the case to a confidential hearing. In addition, there is also a change in the fact that decisions, decisions, are generally issued in one-man submissions. And now, reading such a regulation, I wonder if there really are such compelling reasons that would justify such a distant interference into the right of the court. Because the introduction of a rule whereby, on the basis of the President's decision, a case can be recognised at a sitting in secret without a hearing is a far-reaching restriction of the right to an open trial, as well as the principle that judges rule in single-member formations. I wonder if there is really a need to introduce such procedural solutions. It seems that the introduction of such solutions requires perhaps a broader reflection as to whether such regulations need to be applied. This is just an example, it was an example, I took the liberty of pointing out an example that I was the first to think about when it came to legislation. But there are far more such regulations and they need to be looked at.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u63	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: I still...]] The next round, Mr. Senator. Now Mr. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u64	Professor, I was very pleased with your declaration of interest in environmental problems and the possibility of investing in wind energy. I fully agree with this diagnosis. We in the Senate have already come up with one legislative initiative that breaks the 10H principle of distance investment from buildings In fact, it also limits the ownership of Polish farmers who can't be built on their own land, despite the already modern masts, within 2 km. I'd like to ask if we'll be on this case... Because I declare that we are preparing a legislative initiative that will enable investments in wind energy to be expanded on land. So will it be from your point of view, from the Ombudsman's point of view? After a choice, of course. A chance to get involved in this project? Why? Because this is a question that will possibly require some work, dialogue with those local communities that have often had concerns about these investments in the past. But I completely agree that here the environmental considerations, the climate, are becoming absolutely prioritizing and should be laid in the efforts, in my opinion, of all public institutions. Thank you. Very.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u65	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u66	Of course, I, referring to what I was talking about, declare my full support for such initiatives. Both the constitution and international law, for example. Kyoto Protocol They require our country to intensify such solutions to use renewable energy sources. Of course, I understand that such regulation can create some misunderstandings, some social disputes, and I also believe that the role of the Ombudsman is to explain and present solutions that exist in other countries, to indicate that they do not lead to the implementation of those concerns which may sometimes be raised by local communities. And this is the educational role of the ombudsman and the role of mediation between the environments remaining in the dispute I also see. In such a formula, I would very much like to be involved in the work on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u67	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Breja's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u68	Thank you very much, Marshal. Professor, in recent days, the world's opinion has shaken information from an international investigation conducted by the Guardian, the Washington Post, about the opposition activists' surveillance system, opposition journalists around the world called Pegasus. For now, in our area, we have confirmed the information from this investigation on the application of this in Hungary. Only that already from the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, this type of software was purchased not by the Polish intelligence or counterintelligence, but by one of the police services, i.e. by the CBA. Hence the question. On this subject, the Ombudsman also commented, in September 2019, that the use of this software was illegal, against the principle of legalism. In fact, no rule of law allows a State authority to break security, intercept, use communication content and access all information and data from a mobile device. Also, the laws governing the application of the regulations governing operational control do not allow this. This is the Ombudsman's position. That's why I have a question for you. Will you, as the new Ombudsman, be ready to investigate this matter? If the reports of the world's media about the existence of this software in Poland confirm whether you will be ready to investigate this matter, disclose to the public a list of journalists and opposition activists in Poland, against whom this illegal system may have been used, and reveal the mechanics of using, breaking such safeguards in mobile devices e.g. Forensic reporters?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u69	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u70	Thank you. Thank you for that question. I recently read a column on this Pegasus system, and I was really amazed at what he had the possibilities of using this system. There are possibilities that the senator has just said. Reading on this subject and seeing what surveillance measures can be used using this system, I have found that there is no legal basis for many of these measures in the current legislation on operational and exploratory activities, and that there should be such grounds. According to the general standard, universal operations of operation and inspection should be described precisely in the law, should be managed on the basis of a court order. This standard is general. It concerns not only traditional wiretapping or other means of surveillance, but also this instrument that we are talking about. That is why I welcome the idea which, moreover, was presented by Professor Adam Bodnar, the Ombudsman, the creation of an independent body of the state, which would ensure that the authority does not allow excess in the use of surgical and cognitive activities. I think that the first step to solving this problem would be to create a concept of an independent body of the state that would oversee the activities of the special services in this area that we are talking about. Perhaps the activities of such an independent State authority would allow it to verify how this system is being used today. I, if I were to become a spokesman, would, of course, ask for appropriate inquiries and information from any authority that may theoretically have knowledge of the functioning of this system, but I am not convinced that the Ombudsman actually has such far-reaching powers to conduct certain investigative activities to determine who and how this system was used. So, of course, within the remit of the Ombudsman, I declare that I would take such action. I would also take systemic action to programme the concept of the implementation of the case law primarily of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in order to create an independent body supervising the activities of special services in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u71	Thank you very much. Senator Brejza wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u72	Thank you very much. This is a very important declaration in the context of information that reaches, that services in Poland can use illegal software. And just the question: do you see any violation of attorney-client privilege in Poland? This is, of course, an example of your patron Roman Giertych. And also breaking attorney-client privilege about him.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u73	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u74	Lawyer's privilege is one of the fundamental guarantees of the right of defence. This is one of the elements of the relationship between the individual and the state, the fact that a man, acting against the state, towards law enforcement authorities, can communicate with his lawyer. And it should be done in such a way as to ensure absolute secrecy. Indeed, there are cases, factual situations and certain legal solutions that are not fully consistent with this demand... I mean, it's not a postulate, it's the constitutional principle that I'm talking about. I have already told you, answering previous questions, that there are criminal procedure rules that allow the prosecutor to participate in a conversation between the person detained and his proxy, which allows for checking correspondence. And such regulations should be looked at. And one of the ombudsman functions, one of the ombudsman's tasks should also be to signal to the legislator such problems that there are laws that may not be enough to eliminate completely. Because sometimes the prosecutor should be present at a meeting with a proxy How much they should first be sealed so that they are used only when absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u75	Thank you very much. I also have a question that came up with these questions about the pandemic. In fact, it consists of 2 parts. Do you think that use, instead of lockdown, of restrictions on entry into certain places, e.g. to hotels, to restaurants, to sports events • to people vaccinated is compatible with the constitution? That's the first line. And the second point: On 8 April this year, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that compulsory vaccinations are legal and may be necessary in a democratic society, that there is no conflict with the European Convention on Human Rights. Of course, it had nothing to do with COVID, but it is believed in some environments that this can be very important in protecting against COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u76	Thank you. Maybe I'll start with the second question. This was the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the Vavřička case against the Czech Republic. He was indeed based on such a standard that the introduction of compulsory vaccination of children lies in the sphere of freedom, recognition of countries and falls within the so-called. the margin of assessment. And this is the standard that was created by the European Court of Human Rights in a case against the Czechs. But I would like to stress that there were also questions in Poland as to whether compulsory vaccinations of children are in accordance with the Constitution. And these questions have been consistently answered for several years by the Supreme Administrative Court, claiming that it does not violate the Constitution by compulsory vaccination of children, that such a solution falls within the sphere of freedom of the legislator. And this particular fact was also concerned with this Vavřička case against the Czech Republic. I do not think that there are grounds for extending this matter, for example. for vaccination of all people against COVID. Yes? It was a case that dealt with a particular problem: vaccination of children and this vaccination for several enumeratively indicated in the legislation of diseases. When it comes to differences in the situation of people depending on whether or not someone is vaccinated, Let us remain in the area of the Council of Europe The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution a few months ago, in which it is written that the fact that being not vaccinated cannot be a discriminatory condition, i.e. it is not possible to differentiate people only depending on whether or not someone is vaccinated. I have the following view on this point that, especially during a period which is formally declared by the World Health Organisation as a pandemic period and is formally declared by the Council of Ministers as an epidemic state, it is possible to vary depending on whether someone is a virus carrier or not, so depending on whether or not someone is infected. And that's a possibility, in my opinion. Of course, while maintaining the requirements of proportionality, while maintaining the basis in the Act for the application of such measures, there is a clear basis in the Act. But, as I stress, it's not gonna depend on whether someone's vaccinated or not, it's gonna be gonna be gonna depend on whether someone's a carrier or not. Therefore, the same rights should be given to the person who is vaccinated, as well as to the person who is immune to COVID because he is a healer, as well as to the person who will present the result of the test. That is my view of the matter. I hope I have fully answered that question. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u77	Thank you so much for your answer. I ask you to ask Senator Michael Sewerinski a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u78	At a good time, Mr. Marshal gives me the floor. I'd like you to clarify your statement. I would like to ask at all about the obligation of attachments and the compatibility of this with the constitution. You said that, in the light of the case law of the NSA, if children were forced to become vaccinated, that is acceptable. What if you were to vaccinate all the other adults, too? Do you think that's acceptable or not? A statutory vaccination obligation covering all non-vaccine patients would be in line with the constitution or incompatible?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u79	I, to be honest, would have doubts about the constitutional compatibility in the current situation of such a solution. Of course, the question of proportionality is a consequence of the actual situation in which we are in, so perhaps there would be circumstances which would change this assessment. Because it is always necessary to assess whether freedom or law has been restricted in a constitutional way to take into account the factual context in which freedom or right is restricted. I believe that it would be difficult to justify the introduction of a universal vaccination obligation at the moment, if the natural disaster had not been introduced, from the point of view of constitutional axiology. Because constitutional axiology is based, in my opinion, on such an assumption that, if there are extreme situations requiring extraordinary restrictions on freedom and human rights, it is served by emergency states. The epidemic and infectious disease are one of the types of natural disaster referred to by the Constitution, making the conditions for the introduction of a natural disaster. If the legislator were to believe that a universal vaccination obligation is necessary, I believe that this should be preceded by the introduction of a natural disaster.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u80	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u81	Thank you very much. I have a few questions on the subject that I've already spoken on. The first one is as follows. What is the position of the professor with regard to these announced collective actions, but also individual actions against the Treasury as regards the losses resulting from the restriction of freedom of business? If you had become a spokesperson, would you in any particular way have taken over the monitoring of your office these court proceedings? And, if that were possible, would you join us in court proceedings when you have the status of ombudsman? That's the first question. Second question. But I would ask you to explain the formula you were talking about, the division between people who are carriers of the virus and people who aren't carriers of the virus, because maybe it's wrong. Got it. If we'd accepted that rule, then... After all, people suffer from various diseases, someone may have HIV, someone may have HCV, someone may have some other virus, and each one of these viruses poses serious health risks. But also depending on the range... I don't want to enter into a medical discussion, but through contact with other people this virus may spread in a certain way, but we do not hear about any responsibilities or sharpenings in relation to people who have other viruses. Aren't you worried that going away from the principle of voluntary vaccination and non-application of human segregation due to vaccinations and non-vaccinations... All the more so because in Poland movement is getting stronger, let's say, sanitarians who think that we are threatened with sanitary segregation, which will have specific social, political and economic repercussions. I would like you to explain precisely the simple, illegal language that you understand to the public, what is your attitude towards this? This is, do you think, that the introduction of certain privileges for vaccinated and the repression of uninstalled persons is right or wrong, or is it in your opinion, in line with the constitution, or is it not in line with the constitution? How should we look at this? And my last question concerns the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 22 October 2020. What is your position on this matter? Does this ruling close the question of legal interpretation of the protection of human life in the light of the Polish Constitution, or does it open any possibility of debate and thinking about the clarification of laws by Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u82	The first question concerned collective actions against the Treasury. I see a problem here. These actions are based on the concept of normative unlawfulness as an indication of the liability of the State Treasury. This is due to the assumption that the introduction of restrictions, in particular as regards freedom of economic activity, by means of regulations, was contrary to the Constitution. On this basis, it is concluded that there has been unlawful action by public authorities within the meaning of the Constitution, in particular Article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. Where do I see the problem? I see the problem is, Art. 4171 §1 of the Civil Code states that if someone draws a claim for compensation from an unconstitutional act, it is necessary that this non-constitutionality is found in the proper proceedings. In other words, making a claim for compensation for normative unlawfulness requires a preliminary ruling, i.e. having a ruling declaring that the act is not in conformity with the Constitution in the appropriate manner. And I stand in the position of. This is also my scientific view that it is only possible to trigger the liability for normative offences if the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on the non-constitutionality of the act in question has previously been taken. Until now, the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment on non-compliance with the Constitution has not been passed. the lockdown regulations, so in my opinion there are no clear grounds for seeking compensation under the Civil Code I mentioned. And what could I do as a spokesperson? As ombudsman, I could challenge these regulations to the Constitutional Tribunal in order to obtain the preliminary ruling I was talking about, opening up the possibility of seeking damages. And here I would possibly see my role as an ombudsman, my role in this matter. As I say, I see a problem in this area. The liability of the State Treasury, the liability of the public authority for the law, requires the competent judicial authority to confirm that there has actually been a breach of the Constitution. This cannot be done by the court itself in the proceedings for damages, there must be a preliminary ruling. And such a preliminary ruling may be the judgment of the Constitutional Court, sometimes the Supreme Administrative Court, but only in the field of local law. Second question. Mr. Senator wanted me to clarify what I said about the possibility of introducing certain differences between the carriers of Coronavirus and those who are not carriers. And the question was, what about people who carry other viruses? Well, that's how I understood it. But we're dealing with a COVID pandemic, and there's a Coronavirus pandemic. The state of the epidemic that exists in our country is caused by one specific disease. And this, in my opinion, justifies this view that it is permissible to differentiate the legal situation of individuals with regard to what is causing the pandemic, that is, with regard to Coronavirus. As far as this issue is concerned, whether it would be acceptable to favour vaccinated persons or to create some less convenient situation for non-vaccine persons, as I said earlier, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, by means of a resolution, introduced... It's not a recipe, it's just a recommendation. In fact, vaccination cannot be a standalone condition for such differentiation. Since such a standard has been developed at Council of Europe level, this standard should be followed. And I would follow that standard as an ombudsman. As I said, during the pandemic period there can be some variation in whether someone is vaccinated or someone is healed or someone has a negative test result, but it is also necessary to respect the situation of people who cannot be vaccinated for objective reasons, for health reasons, because of social exclusion. And it is also important to respect the decision of those who do not wish to be vaccinated for worldview reasons. The senator's third question was the judgment of the Constitutional Court. This judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was published in the Official Journal of the Laws and caused a legal change in the fact that one of the grounds for abortion had been lifted. This legal situation exists today. But the senator asked if this sentence closed the discussion. No, he does not close the discussion, he, in my opinion, has largely reopened this discussion. It is probably widely recognised that this judgment should be enforced in the scope of the so-called. defects in fetal fetal fetal fetal function. In fact, this judgment clearly makes this clear. At the end of the statement of reasons, it is expressly stated that that judgment requires enforcement by the legislator. At the moment, there are several projects in Parliament which are aimed at implementing this judgment, the execution of those facilities which were included in it. If I were to become an advocate of civil rights... I see that this is a problem that should be debated. I would then appeal, first of all, to your Marshal of the Sejm, to resurrect the work on the execution of this decision, and that in Parliament, which is most appropriate to resolve issues so difficult, so socially sensitive, a discussion on this subject should arise. As I say, the judgment of the Constitutional Court does not close this discussion, which is clear from its justification.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u83	Thank you very much, Professor. I ask you to ask Senator Marek Borowski a question. [[And I don't have any questions.]] Excuse me, that's how I was informed. Professor, I inform you that the senators have completed the process of asking you questions. Please take your seat... [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Marcin Wiącek: Thank you very much.]] You won't have to deal with the answers to our questions anymore. All the senators, as well as those listening to our deliberations, all those who hoped to vote on the Professor's candidacy before the recess at 1:30 p.m., I have news that these hopes were burning. And I'm just disbanding them, because I'm sure this vote won't take place before 1:30 p.m. Let me warn you, we're about to start the discussion. At 1:30 p.m., at the request of our Law and Justice colleagues, we will announce a break by 3:00 p.m. After 3 p.m., we will return to the debate and vote on the appointment of the professor. I'm sorry, but I wanted to explain to everyone present where we are at the point of the day. Thank you very much, Professor. [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Marcin Wiącek: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Sławomir Rybicki... [[Just tell us how many people have signed up for the discussion.]] Dear Senator, five people have signed up for the discussion, but we don't know a day or an hour... Others may submit to this noble procedure. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u84	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I have no doubt that today the Senate will complete the procedure for the election of a new ombudsman. It is important that this extremely important civil rights and freedoms office be filled by a person who meets the criteria, the requirements necessary for the decent, professional and independent exercise of that office. I think there is a reminder of the controversial circumstances of the appeal of Professor Adam Bodnar by the Constitutional Tribunal, called the Julia Przyłębska Tribunal, by the composition illegally filled, which is important for my later statement. This case reminds us all of the legal and political environment in which we are, in fact, in which country and how we are governed, functioning and what problems and challenges will be faced by the newly appointed Ombudsman. You have to call things and things by name. We are dealing with a reality in which the camp of power dismantles the pillars of a democratic rule of law, reducing the independence of the judiciary, striking at the freedom of the media. The rulers took over most of the democratic institutions of the rule of law. It can be said that they have politicized, or actually stubborned most of the institutions, the Constitutional Tribunal, the prosecutor's office... There was an assassination on the Supreme Court, the National Judicial Council became dependent on the executive authority, the public media lost its essence, the civil service was marginalized. There was an attempt, as I mentioned, to extort the judiciary or earlier attempts to stubbornly choose an ombudsman. Long to mention, there are many examples. We see them in this House every day, we see them. I'm going to talk about a few, because they're very important to the challenges facing the spokesperson. The right to assembly is violated. The whole state apparatus is used to harass, pursue protestors peacefully in the streets of Polish cities, often involving women who stand up for their rights, human rights. There is a restriction, a guarantee that citizens will be denied that their case will be dealt with by an impartial, independent, properly filled court that their sentence will be delivered without political pressure. There is a reduction in women's rights, in fact a total ban on abortion, limited access to emergency contraception or sexual education, a threat to the termination of the anti-violence convention. The language of hatred, the language of exclusion, the language of contempt that contributes to the growth of aggressive, xenophobic behaviour, national, religious attacks related to sexual orientation, and even different political views, is widespread in public space, promoted by public media and some representatives of power camps. We are also dealing with this today, which has already been mentioned with an uncontrollable probably since the Polish People's Republic of Poland's uncontrolled surveillance. Under the pretext of combating terrorism, special forces' powers have been extended beyond measure and beyond control. There was the question of Pegasus being used. Where's our right to privacy? Finally, such an example is the assassination of free media by the Polish Press and the attempt to take over TVN. This is a clear attempt to limit the constitutional right of citizens to objective, fair, responsible information. High Senate! A newly elected Ombudsman I don't doubt Professor Marcin Wiącek will be. It will face huge challenges, difficult decisions, difficult choices. My office and most of your senators' offices have received letters asking you to ask for questions, and many of them are here. It shows that society has great expectations of you, of the office that you will be I don't doubt it. Doing the job. We in this House, the democratic majority in the Senate, who in previous votes on the election of the Ombudsman did not agree to stubbornness, to marginalisation, to subjugate this authority with the hope that it would be taken by a competent, courageous and, most importantly, independent person, because there is no room for compromises in matters relating to civil rights and freedoms. Your Senate, Professor, we trust, express our deep hope and we are convinced that you will stand firm and firmly on the side of the weaker and excluded, despised and oppressed by the authorities for political views, in defence of LGBT people and all minorities. We are convinced that you will stand up for the protesters who are being chased by your camera, beaten and detained women. We have no doubt that you will proceed to proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights on the side of the repressed judges Zurek, Tuleyi and Juszczyszyn, but probably also many others repressed for their independent attitude. There are really many of these current challenges facing the RPO. We should also mention the civilization challenges that will be faced by the Ombudsman. I'll just mention them, because it's not the time and place to develop it: climate change, Professor, new technologies, algorithms, artificial intelligence, which increasingly affects our attitudes or consumer choices. There is also a question of demographic challenges, Professor, an ageing population, etc., etc. We should keep these issues in mind and they should be on the current agenda. But the most important challenge we face and which implies all others is the rule of law crisis, the degradation of the rule of law. This state can shape our reality, putting us in legal chaos for years, wasting our chances of development, crossing away the achievements and dreams of many generations of Poles about free, democratic, wealthy Poland among democratic, free societies of Europe. It must be made clear and clear that an attack on the rule of law is indeed an attack on civil rights and freedoms. Professor, I wish you well, and I think it's our common wish. In order that you, ending your term of office for many years, by informing the Senate about the activities of the Ombudsman, can tell us and all Poland, all Poles, that human rights and citizens in Poland are respected again, with all due respect that civil liberties are re-respected, popularized and properly protected in our homeland. I wish you, myself and all of us to be able to tell ourselves responsibly as soon as possible that we have regained our common forces, we have restored to Poles the rule of law, the democratic rule of law that respects, supports, protects and protects our citizens. Professor, I think you can count on the support of the Senate's majority in all these matters and actions that will aim to protect civil rights and freedoms, and I declare that the Senators of the Civic Coalition will vote for the choice of Professor for the office of Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u85	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich, who will be the last speaker before recess.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I listened to Professor Wiącka's presentation today with care and joy. I am glad that you answered most of the questions as the independent Ombudsman should. Over the past year, we have also faced many attempts to assassinate this institution defending citizens' freedoms and rights. You know very well that various attempts were made to encourage the adoption of a party candidate, one that would represent the rulers and not the citizens of the Republic of Poland. So you are our hope and you are also facing a great challenge, a challenge to represent Poles and Poles, those who are being oppressed, those who are being treated contemptuously, those who are the subject, not the subject of public life, those whose rights and freedoms have been radically reduced in the last 6 years. The right to information has been limited At the very beginning of the reign of the present camp, when public television was taken away from the citizens and subjected to the will of the rulers. Both the right to peaceful demonstrations, through those decisions which were illegal and which justified the pandemic and which restricted the right to assembly and the right to an objective court, were restricted when the legislative umbrella, which protected an independent court, an independent and independent judge, was filed as a result of a number of different laws which were being prosecuted and in the Seym and in the Senate, and ended with the signature of the President. On the other hand, we have citizens. Those who protested against this evil law, those who stood here, under the Senate building, who in winter and summer, warm and cold protested in the defence of civil rights, those who were defended by the former Ombudsman, and those whom you must defend. It's your duty. And that's what we're gonna account for. I hope that you will carry out this duty as well as your predecessors have done, and that you will sign up in a manner worthy of this dynasty of ombudsman rights, who since 1988 have been properly defending the respect of civil rights and the affairs of those who face strong power and themselves are weak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u87	Thank you very much, Senator. I would also like to note your simple mathematical precision about the time of the speech. It's 1:30. In line with our findings, I thank you for your debate so far, and I thank the Professor for his response. We're adjourned until 3:00. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 30 to 15 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u88	I'm reopening the session. We return to the first item on the agenda: agreeing to the appointment of the Ombudsman. I would like to remind you that before the session was adjourned by the Sejm, the Ombudsman, Prof. Marian Wiącek, answered the senators' questions and we started the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today, the Polish Parliament is under the sixth attempt to appoint an ombudsman. Since 15 July, the decision of the Constitutional Court of Julia Przyłębska is no longer at the office of Professor Adam Bodnar, who carried out these duties. From the point of view of the citizens, this is a bad situation and one which should end as soon as possible. I firmly believe that Professor Marcin Wiącko's final election as ombudsman will be held in the Senate in a moment. I will support your candidacy, Professor. I will support your candidacy, because in loud and symbolic matters such as the one I have asked about freedom and pluralism of the media in Poland, concerning the Ombudsman's request, which was made by the previous Ombudsman on a group of local and regional media, you clearly argued that this request would be upheld and that the evaluation would be carried out by an independent judge and an independent court. That's a satisfying answer for me. But this is above all a satisfying answer for those who are afraid for free media in Poland today, because they see further legislative initiatives such as the amendment of the Act on Radiophony, which is popularly referred to as lex TVN, and in practice it serves only to deprive one of the TV stations in Poland of the possibility of working, which is extremely important for many citizens, because it is a source of reliable information about the situation in Poland and in the world. Thank you for those answers. But the work of an ombudsman is primarily about fulfilling the obligations of the law and the Constitution. From a law which states that the Ombudsman upholds the freedoms and human rights of the citizen as defined in the Constitution and in other normative acts, as well as upholds the principle of equal treatment, and that in matters of protection of liberty and human rights and of the citizen, the Ombudsman examines whether, as a result of acts or omissions of bodies, organisations, institutions bound to comply with those freedoms and rights, there has been no violation of the law, but also of the principles of coexistence and social justice. I quoted the definition of the Ombudsman's tasks, because how often it has been tried to embed the Ombudsman's institution recently into the separation of political functions. The fact that we had to consider earlier that not a scientist, not a person with his own achievements, experience, and authority, but a politician, which is the Deputy Minister whether a Member of any group would hold an office which, by its very definition, is a citizen in a dispute on the line The power must stand on the side of the citizen... Of course, that wouldn't be a good situation. This would not give a chance for this office to be held in the interests of the citizen, not in the interests of the authorities. By presenting your vision of the functioning of the office, you spoke about those points on which this operation is to be based, about dignity, equality and dialogue. Dialogue is an extremely important value, which so often recently, in disputes on the line citizens The power was a non-existent value. Today we know that this value will have to be fought for. It was extremely important to me that you spoke about these 3 pillars, supplementing this also by saying that within these priorities you will remember those groups of citizens that need to be remembered in a special way. After all, the Ombudsman has important competence in the area of the national prevention mechanism, in the fight against homelessness, in the conduct and supervision of matters relating to disabled persons. These are people who, in fact, always have a harder one. The fact that you have also remembered them and these tasks in your speech is extremely important to me, extremely important. And I'd like to make one more declaration. The outgoing spokesperson Adam Bodnar was extremely active, including on legislative proposals. This Senate term is remarkable in this area. The Senate Legislative Commission, which I am directing in this term of office, which is not even halfway through, has prepared a total of dozens of legislative initiatives. That kind of work, that kind of activity, there's never been before. But that's the need today. Laws should be drawn up, but not those designed to take over television, but those designed to serve citizens. I'd like to say one thing. Well, there were a few of these dozen initiatives that we have prepared on request or from the inspiration of the former Ombudsman. These were initiatives such as a law on speeding up procedures for granting compensation to citizens and advance payments against them; a draft law extending the circle of persons entitled to claim compensation for damage suffered or compensation for injury suffered; a draft law which provided for an increase in the maximum amount of remuneration or income for persons called to the court as witnesses; an amendment of the provisions on the possibility of obtaining compensation or compensation from the Treasury for undoubtedly unjust submission of charges or accusations. The last of these initiatives is a draft law which introduces an obligation to be present at the trial of an insane perpetrator in which the court decides to apply safeguard measures. I'd like to make a declaration. Professor, I'm sure you'll be the Senate's decision today to finally be elected ombudsman. We hope for further active cooperation, that you will act in the interests of the citizens by presenting draft legislative initiatives. We hope that you will be wherever the interests of the individual, the interests of the citizen, interfere with the interests of the authorities. And we know there's going to be a lot of that. You will always be a spokesperson for citizens' rights, that in a dispute between a citizen and a government, you will never be a spokesperson for the rights of power, which has as much instruments as possible to pursue your interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u90	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! Professor! High Izbo! I can tell you what my senatorial practice shows, from those senatorial shifts that I'm full of. People often come to us in despair, those who have a sense of helplessness towards the state and a sense of harm. Often it is about extremely dramatic situations, life situations, partly culpable by these people, e.g. because of not reacting to appropriate letters, if it concerns judicial or administrative procedures, but often a sense of helplessness involves how in this thicket of regulations, laws, institutions are to be moved by ordinary citizens, so that they feel that there is justice, that there is equal treatment and that everyone is measured by the same measure. I think that being an advocate of civil rights, in covid or pocovid times... Optimist will say that pocovid, pessimist, or well informed optimist, will say that unfortunately there is still a pandemic and what will happen next is unknown. This situation has shown a number of problems that will be faced by the Ombudsman. They concern not only this classic, traditional catalogue of cases that the Ombudsman dealt with. There is a whole gallery of excellent advocates who, over the past 30 years, when this office exists in Poland, have taken such actions and have been developed certain ways, a pragmatism of the functioning of the Ombudsman, although each of the Advocates has carried out this office in an authorial manner, in such a way as he considered particularly important, each of the Advocates had his personality, his sensitivity and a special look at the issues he was dealing with. These covid times relate primarily to the protection of fundamental values and fundamental civil rights. Also, this discussion with you or these questions to your professor shows that there will be a whole sack of problems in this area and how you will be chosen, actually throughout your five-year term you will necessarily be dealing with these problems, because unfortunately the effects of this joyful legislative work, inconsistencies and this... It has to be said that the situation was completely new, no one knew how it was going to go, so please do not take it as a unilateral criticism, but many different decisions have been made and many different rules have been introduced that have specific consequences. I listened very carefully to the Professor's answers to his questions. I will say this: on the one hand, I understand that you were in a difficult situation because you were reported in the Sejm by the opposition with the support of a club that theoretically has a majority in the Sejm, which is the parliamentary club Law and Justice, my club, which was a surprise because you were running for the second time and in the first case there was no support of the PiS club for your candidacy. On the other hand, you were the person who tried to answer questions like this. That's how I got it, correct me, you'll still have the opportunity to speak... [[Voice from the room: There will be no...]] Once he's elected, he'll have an opportunity. The whole point is to keep the sheep alive and the wolf a little full. This is how I answered some of the questions, let's call it sensitive to one side of the political dispute in Poland, i.e. the governing camp or opposition camp, which has a majority in the Senate. Not all of these answers were clear, but I was a little short of clear declarations. As a lawyer, as a doctor of law, a university professor sees certain issues, no matter how you face them when you take office. What is particularly important to me is the question of protecting fundamental values in the times in which we are living. Here the role of the spokesperson is, in my opinion, huge. In fact, it is the only constitutional office to uphold civil rights and certain values. The values that come from the Constitution. The Constitution comes from the previous century, it was adopted in the atmosphere of a political conflict, but it is currently a document. And what's important to me is the question of protecting these values. I'm going to say that I'm a little disappointed by your responses to some of these fundamental values. I mean, above all, what involves the fundamental fundamental right of every human being. I'm talking about the right to live. And that's why I say this with all my kindness to you, to your record, to your declaration. I cannot fully support your candidacy. Appreciating your work, your point of view, appreciating your undertaking this mission and expressing your hope... I am convinced that you will be elected to this office in this House, but I will abstain. I hope you're doing what you're doing. The professor will convince me that in this vote I could give you more credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u92	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! Professor! There's a lot of questions here. In various areas, from different areas, also questions concerning difficult current issues, which are the result of the political conflict that is undoubtedly taking place in Poland, are very serious. You tried to answer them, using all of your legal knowledge, your scientific achievements. This is very important. Indeed, it must be said that of all the candidates who have recently come here through various votes, your work is impressive in this respect. I understand, of course, that the Ombudsman, apart from the fact that he must undoubtedly show sensitivity, must also stand on the ground of legalism and must therefore respect existing laws, existing regulations, if they are lawful. But we are witnessing actions that are dictated by evil will. We're also dealing with a law that comes from bad will. There was a question here, and I think it was asked by Senator Jackowski, concerning the attitude towards complaints brought by entrepreneurs, by entire groups of entrepreneurs whose activities were banned during the lockdown period without legal basis. You, in your broad discussion of this matter, said that there should indeed be an appropriate law here. That wasn't the bill. There have been regulations and these regulations have undoubtedly been violations of civil rights. And to the question of how you relate to these complaints, whether I understand it this way, in the subtext you will support them at once, you have replied that there is a law that says that such a claim can be dealt with and effective only if this non-compliance with the Constitution is confirmed by the Constitutional Tribunal. There is indeed a law, but it is not a law that has existed for 10, 15, 20 years. This is a law that has been introduced, using the majority, by the government of Mr.Matthew Morawiecki to avoid liability. After all, the Supreme Court, the courts found that these actions had no legal basis, were unlawful. And what is the Prime Minister doing at this point? The Prime Minister absolutely doesn't admit it, and he's inventing a bill that's gonna make this kind of claim... Given that the Constitutional Tribunal of Ms Julia Przyłębska is an independent body, I would like to make it clear that the Prime Minister has the full right to hope that at best the judgment in this case will not be given for a long time. And until it is passed, of course, the bill that has been produced and adopted will be in force. Professor, I'd expect in situations like this when the government takes action. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In order to avoid liability, in obvious situations of civil rights violations, your voice sounded out of the question. From a legal point of view, you may not have many opportunities for movement, but that is not all that matters to society, it is also the opinion, the view, the voice that counts. This is a situation which, in order not to appeal only to Mr Adam Bodnar, but also to many of the previous spokesmen, has already taken place. Even when, for various reasons, they were unable to handle the matter, to push through in a manner appropriate to the citizen, they spoke publicly, loudly and the public knew what the Ombudsman's view was. And I would very much urge that, with your peace and restraint, in such obvious situations, your voice sounds loud. This is the first thing I wanted to say. Second thing. I'll be very brief. There was a question here from one of the Senators of Law and Justice about whether or not you would start a branch of an ombudsman in other cities. Well, I'm very pleased with the question, because Mr. Adam Bodnar repeatedly called for him to run such subsidiaries, because it wasn't just about the decision that I was running, it was about money. And he never received this money from the rulers and from the parliamentary majority both in the Sejm and in the Senate. The fact that such a question has now been raised shows that there is also a need for such solutions in Law and Justice. Although Senator Jackowski has declared his abstention, I hope that at least some of the Members of the Law and Justice, taking into account also... [[Senators.]] [[Senators.]] Excuse me? [[Senators.]] I said "messessages"? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] No. Some Members, a significant part of the Members of the Law and Justice, voted in favour of the Professor's candidacy and I hope that a significant part of the senators here will also vote in favour of this candidacy. And I'd like to Here I am appealing to this web page to not be stingy anymore, and even if there is no proper grant in the Seym, we should be here in the Senate. We, who approve this candidacy, count on it and want citizens to have access to the Ombudsman, including in the case of an emergency complaint, have made it possible for this money to be found. In six months' time, we will be here in the Senate to speak on the state budget for the next year, and I hope that this time the Ombudsman's office will be treated properly, properly, so that he can serve the citizens well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u94	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say in advance that I am in favour of Prof. Wiącko's candidacy. Many of the speakers spoke about the fact that the Senate effectively prevented this office from being filled by the party's candidacy, which is to say that we prevented this office from taking over. But this is not just about the negative aspect, but about the fact that we are dealing with a high degree of competence candidate, in this area of law, which focuses on the rights of the individual. I would like to say that in this discussion, as often in Poland, expectations are presented from extreme positions. Whether it's from progressive positions, or it's from traditional positions. That's not my point of view. And the fact that Prof. Wiącek did not answer certain questions decisively may be an advantage, because it is not the case that the Ombudsman should pursue a doctrinal agenda, e.g. To be a spokesperson for limiting the application of the conscience clause because of the radical demands of the progressive agenda or, on the other hand, to lead a crusade against minorities. The Ombudsman's duty is to protect a high standard of all rights, all rights of the individual. I wish and would very much wish that Prof. Wiąck would be such a separate point in Polish public life, that it would be a point of a new consensus, in which there is an important concern for the rights of minorities, but also for the protection of religious freedom. Because religious freedom is measured primarily from the perspective of the law of the faithful, not the position of the Church, not the position of the hierarchical church. So what I do not like about the supporters of very expressive doctrines is what I like, because it means an opportunity for an impartial mission and for building consensus. Having said that, I would like to point out that the decision to support your candidacy is a kind of credit, a credit of trust. In contrast to the situation of many of your predecessors, except Prof. Bodnar, who has already acted in an emergency situation, we are dealing not with irregularities in the activities of public institutions, but simply with drastic problems with the Polish rule of law, with the ownership of independent institutions. The cooperation between the Ombudsman and the opposition is not to be expected. But we have the right to expect courage and clarity in these matters, such a very clear voice in defending the Constitution and the people who are being wronged, expressing themselves in the spirit of what the candidate has in mind, that is, in the spirit of respecting the Polish constitution. Because it is the Polish constitutional tradition that obliges us to rebuild the civilized state. And I hope that Prof. Wiącek will play a very active role in this matter for the benefit of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u96	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej. [[Voice from the room: He left...]] [[Voices from the hall: No, it is, it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to what Senator Ujazdowski just said. I agree with the fact that the Professor certainly... Listening to him, I think he's the inside man. Well, I hope it is. But I ran out of answers to questions, as well as what the professor said... We have heard a lot of very interesting things about representing an individual against authority or certain groups. That's what we've actually heard a lot about. I'm sure you've shown a great deal of expertise, of all the previous candidates, certainly the best. It was clear that the matter with which you might be dealing for five years was that you were deeply familiar with it. I have also heard that you are familiar with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. This also distinguishes you from previous candidates. As most of my previous speakers have said, your term of office will be for interesting times, or rather, you might say, uninteresting times. I am afraid that focusing only on these individual cases may not be enough, because human rights, however, come from the proper functioning of the entire structure. If this structure is ill, is dismantled or subjected to political pressure, and effective political pressure, if it is built in such a way that it ceases to provide objectivity, then, as it seems, the duty of this last human rights instance, the Ombudsman... He's gotta concentrate. And here I disagree with Senator Ujazdowski On these general issues, what is the way in which this structure is built. If this way is incompatible with the Constitution, with our international obligations, it must be of interest to the Ombudsman. I missed the emphasis on this conversation we had today, the conversation, which I stress once again, extremely substantive. Well, I bow to your knowledge. I've run out of it, and, frankly, I'm wondering I'm gonna be wondering for a second. How to vote. From a completely different position, I could repeat some of the conclusions that Senator Jackowski made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u98	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Halina Bieda, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka and Joanna Sekuła made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. And adjourn until 3:50 p.m. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 36 to 15 minutes 50]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u99	I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. I hope they've all reached their posts. We return to the first item on the agenda: agreeing to the appointment of the Ombudsman. We will now vote on the Senate's consent to the appointment of Professor Marcin Wiącko as ombudsman. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 98 senators voted, 93 for, no one opposed, five senators abstained. [[Voting No 2]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has agreed to the appointment of Mr Marcin Wieck as ombudsman. I'm asking you to approach the president's table. Mr. Spokesman, I'd like to give you a resolution from the Senate. Congratulations. You've been given a strong mandate. It is an obligation to serve citizens, to serve the Republic of Poland. [[Disruption during the speech]] ...but with a lot of experience, with a lot of knowledge... [[Disruption during the speech]] I wish you all the best, all the best. Remember that the Senate will always support you in all activities that serve the welfare of our homeland and the well-being of its citizens. Congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u100	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, High Izbo! It is a great honor for me that you have supported my candidacy as ombudsman. At the same time, I take this as a huge commitment. From this point on, I pledge that my credo for the next five years, when I hold this honorable office, will protect human dignity, protect the dignity of every man, every person who comes to the Ombudsman's office asking for help. Every such person will get my help, and that's what I'm committed to. Thank you very much again. It is a great honor for me. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. Look forward to the crowds outside. And we're moving on. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the social security system and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 431, and the report of the Commission In print No 431 A. I would remind you that the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has recognised the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure presented a proposal for a legislative initiative. This proposal, together with the draft law, is included in print No 460. I would remind you that the proposal for a legislative initiative is presented by the rapporteur together with the committee's report on the bill under consideration. After hearing the request, the Senate shall decide in the vote: it shall decide in the vote, and it shall be in a moment. On the accession to the second reading of the draft law. If the proposal is adopted, the second reading shall be held at the same meeting on a separate agenda item. Failure to adopt a resolution on the accession to the second reading means that the draft is referred to the procedure set out in Section IX of the Senate Rules of Procedure. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Spokesman, please say so... [[Voice from the room: Abandon the room.]] The whole foyer is at your disposal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would ask the presidents of the clubs to remind the senators that after the celebration we have returned to work and in a few moments we will be voting on the proposal for a second reading of the legislative initiative presented by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. If we accept this proposal, the second reading will be at the same meeting. I hope the senators will be aware of that. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Libicki, to take the floor and to present a report to the committee on the bill under consideration and to ask the committee to take a legislative initiative on the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. You're welcome, Senator, to present this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Senate Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and on certain other acts of the Senate Print Nos 431 and 431 A. At the same time, let me do it again. As the Marshal stated, because the committee in the course of its work saw the need to submit a bill relating to these works, in accordance with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 Rules of Procedure of the Senate I ask for the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, print No 460. First, let me discuss the work of the family committee on the law itself, and then on the draft, which is in accordance with the article. 69 is reported here. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy worked on this law at 2 meetings: 15 and 20 July 2021. This law introduces several dozen amendments. It is largely a law that regulates the social security system and harmonises the rules for granting and paying benefits and settlements with contributors. Since there are dozens of these changes, and most of them did not raise more concerns, so to speak, I will only allow myself to discuss those which were of particular concern to us during our meeting. This law concerns the harmonisation of the rules of insurance of shareholders of open, single-member, limited companies and partners. It also applies to voluntary insurance, so to speak. These are those entities that carry on a single-person business activity. The subject of discussion in earlier stages We are very pleased that the government has withdrawn from this. It was a question of switching to the payment of long-term benefits only in the electronic system, through bank accounts. This raised serious concerns, especially with regard to older recipients. We are pleased that the government has finally withdrawn from this, and this regulation will only apply to those who are receiving benefits and who live abroad. This law also introduces the following solution. Well, if in 60 days someone who's had a disease gets another disease, these 180 days are gonna count. as one period for these 2 diseases, it will not be as it is so far, that every illness will have as if its 180 days when it is about the possibility of healing it. This is also a reduction in the period of sickness after the end of insurance from 182 days to 91 days. And there is an important regulation for those who collect social benefits, namely the elimination of the pension trap. If the person who's gonna make the extra money is, so to speak, earn 70. 130%. the average salary, then this pension will be reduced by half, and if it is above 130%, then only then will this pension be suspended. This law also amends the principles of appointment to the Supervisory Board of employers and trade unions and introduces the obligation for each employer to register in the PUE system since 2023. The key issue that was raised during the deliberations of our committee was the so-called. June pensions. This is an issue that is that people who have retired in June have not been subject to such valorisation and valorisation rules, which have been subject to retirement in previous months. The government has evened out the valorisation rules for those who went to retirement in 2020 and will also move on to them in the future. The question remains, however, what about those who, on the so-called. June pensions passed between 2009 and 2019. And I will immediately say that two amendments have been tabled, which the committee has accepted. One was the amendment proposed by the Legislative Office, adopted by me, and it concerned that this way of valorisation should also apply to people who had passed on to pensions in 2009 and 2019. This amendment was accepted. Senator Magdalena Kochan's amendment was also accepted, which states that, in the years 2009 and 2019, those who went to pensions were subject to these worse conversion rules, they should be compensated for their losses. And these 2 amendments were supported by the majority of our committee, as was the amendment on purely legislative, technical matters, the amendment on grammatical form, the purely legislative amendment. I can say that the minority proposal will also be presented. It will be presented by Madam President Magdalena Kochan, who submitted it with Senator Dunin and Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor. So that's five applications. The senator will present this in a separate report. I can also say that there was an amendment tabled by Senator Bure. There was a doubt here. as to how I would say, to report this, to doubt whether this new rule makes it easier for entrepreneurs to do so. The new rule is that... until now, if the insured person was late with a transfer to the Social Security Office, he had to send the appropriate letters to allow him to pay the fee at a later date. It's eliminated. There was a difference of opinion between Senator Bury and Minister Swede, whether it's easy or not. Senator Bury was in favour of leaving the current way of solving this problem, but in the end, this amendment was not supported by the majority. It seems to me that this is so much about the work of the committee, although I would like to say more about the amendment of Senator Richard Majer, who ultimately, in the form of an article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, adopted the form of a separate bill. Like I said, it's a 460, senate print. This is really about a small thing. Namely, companies whose employees subscribe to employee capital plans are obliged to sign an appropriate contract with the management company. If they have not concluded such an agreement, the Polish Development Fund, through the Social Insurance Institution, draws their attention and reminds them that they should sign such an agreement. So far this has been done in normal, written, paper mode. The point is that it can be done through the ZUS system, in the electronic system. As this amendment went beyond the scope of the law, in the interests of good legislation, we all agreed I think there's political agreement on this. That this small matter should be dealt with in exactly the way I said it would be, i.e. in the way of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Three Senate Rules of Procedure. So much for me. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u104	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Filip Libicki discussed this law very carefully, which really cleans up a lot of things, in many cases meets expectations. Let me remind you that the solution to avoid a pension trap it was also thanks to the senators, because many months ago we applied for this kind of solution. The government was happy to see them and put them in its text. This is a really expected change, a change that allows people who receive social benefits to work without fear of losing this benefit. This gives important, needed people the belief that they can work without losing a certain source of income, which is a social pension, that they can try their strength in the labour market for the benefit of self-confidence as well as their pockets. We cannot accept the fact that, in the same law, in fact regardless of the revenues of companies, we are charged with compulsory social security contributions for the partners of limited companies, as well as single-member companies with limited liability, i.e., in short, those citizens who have decided that they can be tempted to start on a difficult labour market, taking responsibility for themselves. They have to pay contributions at the moment regardless of the revenues of their own companies. This is not a good solution, which is why we propose that it be removed from the legal order. The harmonisation of the rules for the calculation and calculation of pensions for pensioners from the old wallet who are still working today, the change in the calculation, calculation and calculation of pensions according to the new rules, i.e. the change in rules during the game, does not seem right to us. Not only doesn't it seem We don't think that's a good solution. The pensioner who received a pension calculated according to the old rules, who takes up a job, should, however, in the end, be accounted for in accordance with the rules in force when he took up his job, when he finished his job and when he retired. Those rules. More favourable than the new rules on the conversion and calculation of pensions should apply to him, hence the proposal to amend the rules and to delete those government proposals. Of course, we are opposed to halving the right to sickness and rehabilitation. Ladies and gentlemen, during the committee meeting, we were told that savings for the introduction of new rules in this law count on about PLN 14 billion. But this cannot be done at the expense of people who are ill, who undergo rehabilitation after illness and have the opportunity to return to the labour market and return to normal life. The argument that many people who are fired from work use the path not entirely proper is not entirely correct.I'm talking about doctors' medical dismissals and subsequent rehabilitation allowances, which, in my opinion and in my opinion, should give rise to a different reflection. How is it that the number of reports of this type of disease has increased? What does that tell you? What other rules, new employment rules, or how to treat some people in many places of work? People resort to sick leave, explaining bad working conditions, poor health conditions, including mental health. This should be the subject of the government's reflection, while the government states that, since it is expensive, it will reduce both the period of entitlement to sick leave and the time spent on rehabilitation, which is intended to guarantee a return to work and a return to normal life. The consequences of these changes will be the deletion of the following articles. The principle of minority proposals is mainly based on what I just said. The consequence will be the deletion of the article. 18 and Article 18 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 19, as well as the need to introduce additional words or replace That's what our changes are about. I ask the High House to accept minority proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I would like to remind you that, after hearing the motion made by the rapporteur, the Senate decides to join the second reading of the bill without first reading it. So we proceed with the vote on how to put things into order... [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote.]] We therefore proceed with the vote on the inclusion on the agenda of the item: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. Who among your senators is in favour of the second reading of the bill, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Za.]] [[For, for...]] [[Voice from the room: Wait, wait...]] [[Voice from the courtroom:]] [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 79 votes against, 2 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has supplemented the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. This will be item three of the agenda. As announced earlier, the vote on this project will take place as soon as it is considered. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act amending the Social Security Act and some other laws. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family and Social Policy has been authorised to represent the government during parliamentary work. Welcome to the gym... [[Voice from the hall: Stanisław Swede.]] Yes. Welcome to the House of Minister Stanislaw Swede. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I thank the President very much for presenting the report because he discussed the main contents of the very broad revision of the Social Insurance Act. We popularly call it the rationalization act. It concerns many improvements in the functioning, both on the part of the insured but also of the Social Insurance Institution, as well as the reduction of the costs associated with the functioning of the social security system. Therefore, I would like to recall these main solutions and also immediately refer to the proposals that we discussed at the committee meeting. They later became partial amendments or minority proposals. With regard to the first issue relating to the harmonisation of the rules governing the insurance of members of single-member limited liability companies and members of a public, partnership or limited partnership company, here, as a general rule, we do not change... Those people will still be insured. But there were interpretation doubts, which the Supreme Court also drew attention to in its resolutions, so that these matters must be settled unambiguously. And this solution we're introducing is designed to help us know that our partner is insured from here until then. And that's what this change is about. When it comes to issues that are very important, there seems to be solutions that... I won't talk about everyone, but the so-called question. June pensions... We had such a situation that we solved this issue once last year. It was such a situation that earlier, since 2009, if someone retired in June, it had a different initial capital count to the future pension. And over the years, this situation has not been changed. We changed it once in 2020, i.e. all those who retired in 2020, in whatever month they had the same conditions as regards the calculation of initial capital. We want to introduce this solution permanently and we are introducing this solution permanently for new people who will acquire pension rights, i.e. it will be completed in 2020, 2021. 'cause it's also gonna be about this year's solution. and subsequent years. The amendment proposes that this period be evened out and that the calculation of the new pension value should apply to all persons. According to our data, this would involve more than 124 000 people in total since 2009. The resources that we would have to allocate to this solution would be PLN 2 billion and PLN 650 million in total. We didn't decide to do that. This is also included in the minority proposal. One of the very important changes we are making is the issue of rationalisation when it comes to sickness benefits. We're changing two things here. First thing about counting the allowance period... The change will consist in counting together all periods of sickness benefit, or 182 days. So far, this has affected one disease, if there have been other diseases, then this period could have been re-calculated. We've been dealing with situations that some people have been on sick leave for a few years. Now we're clearing up this situation. So this doesn't change the period, 182 days away, and there are exceptions to pregnant women or accidents, as well as lung diseases. We're making these changes. The second change is the change in the fact that we shorten the period of possibility of receiving sickness benefits for those who have run out of insurance. At the moment it's 180 days, which means you can still be on sick leave for six months. We want it to be three months. In no case after 182 days, nor after 90 days, we do not limit the possibility of switching to rehabilitation, and for a period of 12 months you can still go to this rehabilitation benefit, which is intended to restore the person to work. This is also the aim of the changes we are proposing to regulate these issues. For the purposes of the committee, we have provided you with data on how issues related to the sickness fund have evolved. We also accepted here as a comparison of 2009. As regards expenditure, including sickness benefits, in 2009 it was 6 billion zlotys, and in 2019 I will say about 2019 because 2020 was a slightly unusual year due to COVID 11 billion 500 million, i.e. an increase of 100%. expenditure on sickness benefits. I do not include maternity benefits here, because in this respect we have also made changes to the bill or to the welfare benefits. We have spent over PLN 13.5 billion on sickness benefits in 2020, and we are therefore making changes that we believe should somehow rationalise expenditure issues. As far as the issue of facilitation is concerned, Mr President explained it here too. It was a matter that you reported to the senator, and it wasn't reflected in the amendment. We want to regulate the situation so that entrepreneurs do not have to submit applications, but only if the entrepreneur is involved in insurance, he will submit an application. He will also have the possibility that during that time he will be insured when it comes to sickness. These are the most important changes. There are dozens of these changes, as I said. They are included in the whole package of changes which are intended to significantly improve the functioning of the entire pension fund scheme of the Social Insurance Institution, but also the payers of contributions and the insured themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u107	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have three questions. The proposed amendments provide for the codification of the conversion of pensions granted under the old scheme and the new scheme. In my opinion, the changes will result in a working pensioner who collects his pension from the old system, being able to recalculate his benefits once a year, rather than once a quarter, or four times a year, so far. In my opinion, these changes are detrimental to active pensioners. At this point, the question arises as to whether the government is seeking to increase pensions for active pensioners, or whether it will block the possibility of increasing their benefits. I believe that this will discourage them from active activity and social security contributions. Second question. Or, if so, when will the government withdraw from this project, which is intended to withdraw funds collected by Poles at OFE? And when are you gonna put in place rules that will eliminate this harmful commission for turning OFE into a new OFE? And my third question. Are you aware of how this will disorganize the work of the Social Security Office? This will be because someone who is chronically ill and has no right to sickness will, of course, refer the case to the court. Did you improve the activities of the Social Security Office to change the rules to those that disorient the work of the Social Security Office, and above all to me and not just to me and to the detriment of the employees? I have had many meetings on this subject with various organisations of pensioners and pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u109	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u110	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll start with that last question. As I have already presented, there are no changes in terms of rehabilitation. So, the person who, after his sick leave... If she no longer has a title for this 90-day insurance, she can benefit from rehabilitation and rehabilitation for a period of 12 months. The purpose of the witnessing is to bring the person back to work. As far as the issue of OFE is concerned, the process of agreeing and the final draft law is underway, we are awaiting a resolution in this regard. As regards the issue of harmonising the rules on the conversion of pensions from the so-called "retirement." an old and new system for those who continue to operate, so that the conditions are the same for pensioners who are now working according to the new system, as in the case of the old system. A group of people who are in the old system, working like pensioners from the new system, had a different way of recalculating, could sort of recalculate their pension. This is no longer possible in the new system. We want to sort this out, which is the same way of calculating pensions here, and we really change the rule, because pension will be converted once a year, but it will be converted over the entire period, not only as we have calculated now, quarterly. So, on the one hand, we simplify, because it will be done once a year, and on the other hand, there will be no loss, because it will be counted for the whole period if someone works all year round.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u111	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator John Filip Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u112	Thank you very much. The question will be at the end, from the formal side must be, and I do not want to take a short statement then vote in the debate. I just want to thank you for what you did about the pension trap. Mrs Kochan and I have calculated what 70% is, 130%. This is, of course, a gross amount, but this is the amount that surprised us. Indeed, the environment of people with disabilities has raised this issue for a very long time. And on behalf of this community, I also want to thank you for that. And if there is going to be a question at the end, then the question is: why have you decided this year and at this moment decided to settle this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u113	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u114	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Well, we do it comprehensively, which means we don't do one recipe at random. This is what the President was talking about, the so-called one. The pension trap, for many, many years in fact, has been the subject of discussion. We applied the same solution as in the pension scheme. Today, in this whole package on social security rationalisation, this provision is also in place, and I think that together we can say that this is a very good solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u115	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u116	Minister, I have a question for you. A few months ago, we were investigating a bill that went to the Sejm. The Senators of the ruling party abstained in the vote With regard to the simplification of the procedures for granting parental supplementary benefit, which consisted in the abolition of the obligation for applicants to submit copies of birth certificates of children. In short, we pushed this bill in the Senate, she went to the Sejm. At the time, the argument was that the representatives of the ruling party did not vote in favour of this law, which is why the Ministry was in the position that by the end of the year it could not. Because there is neither money nor technical possibility to introduce, it would seem that a simple procedure for not downloading documents from the register of civil status for downloading them from the system. What happened in this bill, if you were against it then? That's the bill that's in the seym freezer. Because I understand that in the bill it is. So then you can't. It was, and now it's okay to do it? May I have the answer to that question? I was the author of this bill, which was here by the government side unacceptable, and suddenly it was in this bill. I'm very happy about it because we fought for it, but we could do it together. The State put this into the draft law, and at that time, as part of the procedure of the law notified by me, you were against it. How did this happen?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u117	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u118	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'll answer as I told Senator Libicki earlier. We approach the matter comprehensively, hence all these solutions, which, as you have rightly pointed out here, are needed and very good, together are included in this package of solutions. It is difficult to refer to how the senators voted in a particular case when it comes to a specific project. As I said, the intention was that we should introduce as many questionable things as possible, as well as changes in this law, which, as I said at the beginning, we ourselves call the rationalization law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u119	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I just, before I ask a question, wanted to remind you that the Senate has tabled a bill amending the Parental Provision Act on 19 February 2021. He's probably waiting to be processed in the Seym freezer. In the meantime, this solution is being implemented. Very good. Let me put it this way: we are not jealous of the authorship, but it would be nice if the Minister said that you took advantage of the solutions that were ready because they were. Now, here's the second thing I wanted to ask you. It is true that this benefit applies to people on social pensions and carers of children with disabilities who can improve their benefits. The right thing to do. The question is, Minister, does this not increase the difference between these carers and carers of adults with disabilities, because this inequality is really becoming more visible. We resolve cases related to judgments, decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal given much later than 2014 and that of 2014 which were intended to equal the amount of benefits for adult carers of persons with disabilities, we cannot do anything. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u121	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal, Mrs. Senator, of course you know the case perfectly well when it comes to matters relating to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, I will no longer go back to history, to how this happened. Today we have work to do and we have a project to prepare. The matter is so complicated that we assumed that a new system of case law in our country should also be adopted. So first the caselaw, and only then do we put in place solutions that will respond to issues relating to the Constitutional Tribunal. This is due to a simple reason: we do not want to make the mistake that you unfortunately made, opening the gate when it comes to care provision. I will remind you that at the time, at the beginning of these benefits could benefit 300,000 people. After opening the availability over 2 years, more than 1 million people started using these statements. Then there was a change, then there was a judgment of the Court... and so on. That's why we wanted to sort it out. So first, a change in the case law system and then the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u123	Thank you very much. Senator Magdalena Loven Okay, let's do it again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u124	Minister, we've known each other too long, we've been working together too long, because since 2005, and I really respect you, your person, your activity, your mentality, but really: the sixth year we've been hearing about a change of judgment, which you not only don't have... And if you do, I don't think you do. You're afraid to put her into practice. And honesty requires that we make it clear to ourselves. As for opening and closing, the mistakes we have made, we have taken responsibility for them. And the Constitutional Court's ruling was to use... In the 2015 budget, you had PLN 600 million to secure and implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you. No question, but I wouldn't want false content hanging in the air.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u125	Thank you. Would the Minister like to... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: No, not anymore.]] Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u126	Minister, Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, I mean this most distant date of implementation of the law, its entry into force, i.e. 1 January 2023 And he only applies to one issue, namely the establishment of an information profile by contributors. I take it they're all here. The question is... Because there are always problems with computer science and implementation, and that, as I understand it, will apply to all contributors. Will you be able to... In fact, not the state, but will the U.S.S.A. make it by that date? Well, because it's gonna be a revolution, it's gonna be a matter of getting all the data in electronic form, not paper or something.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u127	Mr. Jaroszek from the Social Security Department is here with me. I could look him in the eye. But I think we'll make it to 2023. In our original plan it was 2022, July 2022. We moved this by six months to give the Social Insurance Institution the opportunity to adjust. This is a whole complex of changes that we introduce in the Social Insurance Institution regarding the automation of benefits. This is one of those processes we're doing. President Paweł Jaroszek can still be supplemented if needed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u128	Thank you very much. Will the president be filling in? [[Member of the Management Board of Zakład Ubezpieczeń Społecznych Supervisory Department of Finance and Realization of Income Paweł Jaroszek: No, thank you, Minister explained quite precisely. We are, you might say, standing by. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Marshal! High Senate! This law amends the scope of, inter alia, rules on the granting of pensions in June, rules on the payment of sickness benefits, rules on the application of social insurance to persons who are members of a public partnership, a limited partnership or partnership and a single-member company, rules on the conversion of pensions from so-called. an old and new system of pensioners continuing their professional activity and the liquidation of the reserve fund. The other changes are of a sequencing nature. The Act under review today provides for the reduction of the allowance period after the end of the title of insurance from 182 days to 91 days. Did the designers consult the medical services? Is there a possibility over a period of 3 months e.g. cure the depression caused by the termination of the employment relationship? The Act also provides for periods of incapacity to work not exceeding 60 days after the last incapacity to work, to include those periods in one allowance period even if the incapacity to work before the break and after the break was caused by another disease unit. Now imagine this: an employee became incapable of working because of a broken femur, complicated, used a full allowance period of 182 days, and after a month it turned out that he was diagnosed with cancer. Ladies and gentlemen, this person will no longer benefit from the right to sickness benefits because the government today wants to push through the restrictions by shortening the allowance periods. This provision is extremely reckless and focused only on savings. Of course, the bill contains solutions that are difficult to recognise as conducive to active people, to entrepreneurial people. It's interesting, because it gives the impression that the government of law and justice isn't very conducive to people who want to work. It's worth thinking about. But I also have a question about a slightly different project, but important for future pensioners. It's a project that, according to people, predicts 15% embezzlement. funds which the Poles have collected on open pension funds. The proposed amendments provide for the harmonisation of the possibility of converting pensions granted from the old system and from the new system. These changes will result in a working pensioner who retires from the old system being able to count his benefits once a year and not, so far, once a quarter, or 4 times a year. These changes are detrimental to active pensioners, again adverse to active pensioners. At this point, the question arises: does the government seek to increase pensions for active pensioners, or will it block them from increasing benefits? Thus, they are discouraged from being active and paying social security contributions. Let me remind you that this project is still in Parliament. I will also remind you that today's 40 - year - olds, 50 - year - olds, and 30 - year - olds will suffer the most at the adoption of this proposal. The State is now de facto introducing a solution which will result in pensions being exempt from taxation. I would like to conclude with the following question: are you aware of how this will further disorganize the work of the Social Security Office? This will be because someone who is chronically ill and has no right to sickness will, of course, refer the case to the court. Did you improve the activities of the Social Security Office enough to change the rules? The new regulations will disorganize the work of the Social Security Office, and above all they are anti-social and act to the detriment of employees. This speech I promised many pensioners and rencistoms. I'm a retired man myself, and I know what hurts them, which is why I allowed myself today, Minister, to remember that. But I'm glad my colleague, Senator Loven, reminded you of what you should remember. That's 600 million. You forgot about it quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u130	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Halina Bieda, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Janusz Pęcherz, Benjamin Godyla, Mariusz Gromko, Wadim Tyszkiewicz presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. It also informs that Senator Wojciech Necessary has submitted a legislative proposal in writing. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the matter under consideration... Excuse me. There is another question to the Minister: would you like to comment on the legislative proposal? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: At the committee meeting.]] At the committee meeting. Okay. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. I would remind you that this project was presented by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure and is included in print No 460. The provisions relating to the first reading of the draft law in Senate committees shall not apply when considering this project. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present a draft bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u131	Thank you very much, Marshal. Let me get this straight, because I've already briefly discussed this project at the previous point. The applicant's representative is Senator Richard Majer. Originally, at the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, there was a proposal to settle this amendment, but the opinion of the Legislative Bureau was that this amendment went beyond the scope of the law we discussed. Therefore, we use the Art Mode. 59... [[Voice from the room: Art. 69.]] I'm sorry, Art. 69. In fact, it is about ensuring that certain applications from the Social Insurance Institution can be carried out electronically. Specifically, employers who have submitted their employees to the PPK must sign an appropriate agreement with the managing authority... [[Voice from the room: This is not the point.]] That's the point. Yes or no? [[Voice from the room: Print No 460.]] Print number 460. Yeah, that's all right. I'm sorry. They must sign an appropriate agreement with the managing authority. If they do not do so in due time, the Polish Development Fund through the Social Insurance Institution, so to speak, reminds them of the need to sign such an agreement with the company managing the employee capital programs. So far, it has been done whether it takes place in traditional, postal mode, but due to COVID and because the electronic system of the Social Insurance Institution works smoothly, we would like to be the initiators of this law so that it can be handled electronically. As I said, the representative of the applicants is Senator Richard Majer. There was an agreement on that at the committee meeting. And I think that all parties agree that this should simply be adopted quickly, without undue delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u132	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Richard Majer. Any of you senators want to ask me a question? No. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill presented?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! We support this solution. It was agreed at the committee meeting. Thank you for this initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u134	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Before proceeding with the third reading, which will only include a vote, I will order a five-minute recess. There will be a vote after the break. I'm ordering a recess until 4:56 p.m. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 51 to 16 minutes 56]] I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We are returning to the third item on the agenda. And we proceed with the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print 460. The Commission also proposes that the Senate authorise Senator Richard Majer to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the bill submitted and the draft resolution on the submission of this bill to the Sejm. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour of the bill? Please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted and all senators were in favour. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Richard Majer to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The text of the Act is contained in print 432, and the report of the Commission In print No 432 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u135	Thank you very much, Marshal. Let me get this straight. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: There you go.]] ...because the report will be extremely brief. The Family, Senior and Social Policy Commission dealt with the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by Senate prints Nos 432 and 432 A At its meeting on 15 July. The bill was a sejm initiative of the Polish People's Party and the Polish Coalition. It was passed in the Seym on 24 June. It extends the term of office of trade union statutory bodies, business organisations, employers' associations and social labour inspectors to 90 days after the end of the COVID-19 pandemic and after the outbreak has been cancelled. This is simply an extension during the previously adopted arrangements for the term of office in these institutions. At the committee meeting, we unanimously adopted the 1st editorial amendment and the whole bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u136	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see anyone willing... Oh, Senator Kazimierz Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Would that mean that if the pandemic lasts, lasts and lasts a month longer, all the boards will last? Is that okay with infinity?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u138	I can say this: this provision is optional in the sense that the organization of entrepreneurs or the trade union may take advantage of this possibility, but it does not have to. But, theoretically, this could happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u139	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Dariusz Klimczak was authorised to present the position of the Members of the bill's applicants. Your envoy isn't here. The Minister for Development, Work and Technology was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. I have a question for you now. Minister Olga Semenuk is not present yet. If you have any questions, we will order a break and ask the Minister who has responsibilities in the Sejm to come to us. If not, we can skip it. [[Voice from the room: We don't have one.]] There are no questions for the Minister. I'm opening a discussion. There are no votes in the discussion. None of the senators signed up. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'll be back... I inform you that the speeches to the minutes were made by the senators: Alexander Szwed, Halina Bieda, Janusz Pęcherz and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you once again that the vote will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and the Law on banking law. The text of the Act is contained in print 433, and the report of the Commission In print No 433 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, a report on the work of our committee on the Law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and the Law on Banking Law. Our report is in print No 433 A. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance looked at the law adopted by the Sejm yesterday and proposes 4 amendments to this law. The law discussed by me, and previously examined by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, is a very important law because it is a law that simplifies certain procedures relating to fees, payment of VAT. It is a bill expected by entrepreneurs, which simplifies the settlement of taxpayers' taxes on goods and services. It introduces appropriate legislative changes, which make it clear how the provisions on goods and services tax will be applied in relations with the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland after 31 December 2020. At the same time, the bill solves the problem that has been reported... It follows the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 15 October 2020 and 18 March 2021. Those judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union were given for a preliminary ruling. What's interesting is that at the committee meeting, we've been dealing with issues that are so relevant lately, in this question about the hierarchy of legal order, about what's more important. - whether the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union or solutions in Polish laws. The result of this discussion is also the government's position. It is stated that we should introduce, and introduce, into the law on value added tax in the Sejm, the relevant provisions in order to consummate the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. And here is the problem that we have highlighted in our work in the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. This problem has been extorted, presented by the Legislative Office, by a patron who has examined the law on the tax on goods and services in the legislative sense in the part where we introduced the rules referred to in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. It turned out that the rules that were introduced, although beneficial and needed, are unfortunately incomplete. Therefore, the Legislative Office proposed such provisions as would implement these judgments in their entirety. The case, generally speaking, concerns the relationship between entrepreneurs in a situation where one of the entrepreneurs does not pay for the service or goods to another trader. Does the trader who sold the goods or services have the right to deduct, under certain conditions, this VAT? Our legislation, the law we are talking about, introduces some restrictions that make it difficult to introduce... It's here, you can say, a certain limitation. If these taxpayers, payers or traders who trade among themselves are not bankrupt and are still VAT payers... Thus, the situation of this creditor's trader, who should have the right to recover VAT, is much more difficult. We therefore propose a provision which fully reflects the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The government representative was opposed to such a provision at the committee meeting, considering that the provision that we would have introduced could have contributed to the fact that VAT could have been extorted. Of course, we are not in a position to assess this today, but it seems that... well, the government should introduce rules that would prevent VAT fraud and give the right to deduct it to all those who have to be deducted and who should benefit from such rules as they are. At the same time, there was a problem at the committee meeting that brought us to the attention of the Polish Bank Association. He considers that the time of entry into force of certain provisions, because most of the rules in principle enter into force on 1 January 2022, but it is a part of the rules which would concern the preparation of financial institutions, i.e. mainly banks, to implement certain types of payments... The Union considers that these institutions are not prepared to carry out this task on 1 January 2022. These institutions requested that this deadline be postponed to 1 July 2022. This amendment has not been tabled, but I will report this amendment. We will examine this once again at the committee's meeting and, if necessary, decide whether this provision should actually change. That's it. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u141	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We're just waiting for the minister who's on his way. [[Voice from the room: Oh, there's the minister.]] [[Yeah, he's...]] Good morning, Minister. We're waiting for you. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see... Senator Kazimierz Klein. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u142	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! This case could be wider. it was not discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, and it should probably be examined in depth at that time. There was a request from the Polish Bank Association Yeah, the microphone's on. On the issue of a delay in the date of entry into force of the rules allowing financial institutions to prepare themselves for the introduction of the payments envisaged here, the type of payments as from 1 January 2022. This proposal from banking organisations, this request would be to postpone this deadline to 1 July 2022. Could the Minister address this problem?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u143	Please, Minister. Please. Maybe you're on the spot. I just don't know if you have a microphone in there. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: I have, of course.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u144	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Comments and possible amendments also concern the possibility of paying VAT credits to the KRUS. Such demands have been raised by the farmers' environments throughout the process of drafting this legislation since 2018. Now we have proposed to implement this solution. Thanks to it, the return of VAT, the increase in liquidity, because above all there will be more liquidity, the faster operation will be open to more than 84 000 farmers. This proposal was presented at the beginning of the work on this project, i.e. already in the first quarter of this year, and we discussed it with the Association of Polish Banks and with individual stakeholders. And now I am. The regulation itself would enter into force and the possibility of transferring funds from the VAT account to KRUS contributions would have existed from January next year, which would give banks six months to prepare for the implementation of these regulations. The proposal of the Polish Bank Association encourages us to make sure that they are not six months old, but a whole year old, not six months old and 12 months old. Given the importance of this and the waiting period, how long farmers are really waiting for this opportunity, the huge number of farmers, because almost 100,000 interested, as well as a very high level of professionalism and technological facilities on the part of the Polish Bank Association and its members, I would like to encourage you to stand here, however, on the side of this mass waiting for its beneficial changes and not to report on this issue of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u145	Thank you very much, Minister. Anybody else want to ask a question? Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. No one volunteered, no one signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Ewa Gaweda and Wadi Tyszkiewicz presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that Senator Jacek Bury has submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Police Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 434, and the report of the Commission In print No 434 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Gromek, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u146	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Opinion on the Law amending the Law on Police and certain other laws. The purpose of the Act is to amend the amendments to 8 laws, these are the Police Act, the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland, the Border Guard, the State Fire Guard, the Prison Service, the State Protection Service and the Marshal's Guard. The main objective of the amendment is to regulate the legal status of animals used in the services, i.e. dogs and service horses. The amendments adopted in the passed law meet the social expectations, thus officers and soldiers, and aim to ensure a decent existence for animals used and withdrawn from use in formations supervised by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. Both dogs and horses are used in the Police and Border Guard, only dogs are used in the State Fire and State Protection Service, and dogs are used in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and dogs are used in the Prison Service. The Act in each of the amended chapters regulates the situation of animals from the time they are selected, for the duration of the tasks in each formation, until their situation after withdrawal from use. I have been in contact with the police for many years as president, and I know that I have helped create good conditions for dogs in Kolobrzeg. We didn't have horses, because the cost of keeping horses is much higher. There's always been a problem with what to do with dogs. And here come the horses. "Deleted from duty." They're entitled to retirement now. I thought we were gonna do this pretty well yesterday at the committee meeting in half an hour. Unfortunately, it took a lot longer than that. You were from the ministry, including the military and the police. A bill has been discussed that counts as many as 66 pages. In my opinion, it's very, very much. Such laws should be much shorter. Then they would have been processed sooner, whether in the Seym or in the Senate. After this one-and-a-half-hour discussion, when proposals for amendments were presented, especially by the Legislative Bureau, with which the Deputy Minister and the State of the Police, including the military, agreed. And in order not to prolong, I ask the Senate very much to vote on this bill, just for the sake of these animals. Let's keep the people who take care of them calm. It's all been worked out there, every single thing, every inch of it. This applies to departures from the service of dogs and horses, to where they are to be, if not in the caretaker's, to which associations. It's all up to maximum. I ask you to vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u147	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Blaze God's room. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have great honour, honor and pleasure to present to the High House a law amending the Police Act and certain other laws aimed at regulating the legal status of animals in the services. The law was passed by the Sejm on 24 June this year, and yesterday it was adopted by the Senate Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, as the senator had just said. First of all, I would like to stress that at the stage of the Parliament's work In both the Sejm Committee, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the plenary session As well as at the meeting of the Senate Committee mentioned yesterday, the discussion of this amendment was absolutely beyond political divisions. It is rare that the law is supported by all political forces, regardless of party colors. I take this as a very beautiful expression of our common concern for the fate of animals, so that finally a situation that has not been regulated over the years will be settled. I would like to mention that the project introduced to the Sejm initially contained solutions regulating the legal status of animals in services supervised by the Ministry of Interior and Administration, i.e. in the Police, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service, as well as in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and the Prison Service. In the course of parliamentary work, however, it was extended to include regulations on the legal status of animals in the Marshal's Guard, as well as the so-called. contract dogs in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, namely in the Territorial Defence Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be stressed that the task of all animals in the service is to assist officers and soldiers in carrying out statutory tasks. It should be stressed that despite significant progress, the development of new technologies, animals are still used in services, still play a very important role in these services, and are often absolutely irreplaceable. They help, for example, to carry out tasks related to saving human health and life in search actions, carry out detection activities related to the search for perpetrators of crime or missing persons, and finally preventative actions concerning the detection of dangerous substances, and also, at least today, we are able to find out about them and what we find out about many of the public ceremonies of the State. Currently, both dogs and service horses are used in the Police, Border Guard and Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, while only dogs are used in all other services to which this law applies. Currently, the Polish legal system lacks solutions that would comprehensively regulate the situation of animals in the services. All existing regulations are internal in nature, most often based on orders or lower orders issued by commandants or heads of competent services. Actually, they're all skipping out. And that's probably the biggest problem. The situation of the animals that were withdrawn from the service, as Mr Senator mentioned just now. I would therefore like to stress that this law proposes solutions to regulate the whole situation from the time of the selection of animals to the service, all the time they remain in service, to the time when they are withdrawn from their use in formations. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, going to discuss some of the main principles of the Act in relation to the situation of animals used in formations, I would like to point out that the Act sets out, firstly, the requirements for the guardian to whom the animal is assigned to care in particular formations. Secondly, the duties of animal keepers. Third, the rules of animal feeding. Fourthly, the rules for the prevention and treatment of animals, including rules for the handling of emergencies. Fifthly, cases of withdrawal of animals from the different formations. And finally, six o'clock. This is the most important element of the supervision principle on the part of the various formations on how to implement the care of entrusted animals. It was assumed that carers would ensure the proper maintenance of the animals. The bill describes it in detail, so that I may not talk about it in such detail, in such detail. It's a general idea. You have rightly pointed out to the rapporteur that the bill is extensive so that all possible situations concerning these animals can be determined there. One of the most important issues to be raised here is the equivalent... of food in nature, or a flat-rate equivalent, paid monthly in advance to the keeper of an animal, a dog or a horse, respectively. The second point is that this obligation is removed, which currently only applies to the keepers of those animals who, from their own funds, cover both the feeding of animals that remain under their care and the costs of the necessary prevention or treatment of animals. One of the greater burdens is the costs associated with the treatment of these animals, i.e. with the care of a veterinarian. The Act sets out mandatory cases of withdrawal of the animal from use. In particular, there is a mention of health status, performance loss, lack of progress in training or, as added at the parliamentary stage in the Sejm, a period of 6 months from the date of the animal's loss or disappearance. The Act also sets out optional cases concerning the withdrawal of animals from service. These may be situations such as the ninth year of the dog's life or the fifteen year of the horse's life. Due to the nature of the service in the Armed Forces, i.e. A slightly lower service-related burden, withdrawal of the animal may be optional after they reach 18 years of age. The High Izbo, according to the Act, is a very important change of the animal withdrawn from use in a given formation will always remain in its state. The care provider will have priority, of course, if he wishes to do so. When the animal is not taken care of, it may be entrusted to another trained officer, formation worker or former officer who is on a pension or pension supply. In the event of the death of the keeper of an animal withdrawn from the service, the closest member of the family will have priority in continuing this care, the person who ran the holding together with the keeper of the animal, of course again if he wishes to take care of the animal. If all the cases described in the Act are exhausted and the caretaker cannot be removed from the outside, the animal will also be taken care of by allowing him to remain on the organizational cell of the formation in which he served. And in the case of animals withdrawn from the service in the respective formations, all the benefits I mentioned earlier will also be provided for keepers of animals withdrawn from the service. Of course, these standards will be reduced accordingly, but always, e.g. Based on the examination of the veterinarian, it will be possible to increase the food standards provided for such animals. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I am slowly going to the end, I promise you there are only two more issues. But please also understand, I am so involved in this emotionally, that I would like all the information that is really important to this law to be heard here. This is a special day for me personally, but I think it is also for all those who will have the opportunity to vote in favour. Let me put it this way: the proposed project also takes into account complementary arrangements to the Animal Protection Act for the supervision of the way in which the animal is carried out. This is because, as I mentioned earlier, animals will always remain in formation. Today we are dealing with such a situation that the guardians who take care of an animal withdrawn from use in a given formation do not really have any control. Now this supervision will be and will be run by the boss, the commander, the manager. Maybe we should use here the wording of the law of the unit of proper formation in which the animal was located. As I said, this supervision will be carried out by the head of the organizational unit of the formation in which the animal is located. Of course, if a guardian changes his place of residence or care for an animal will be taken by someone who is on the premises of another organizational unit of the formation in question, it will be possible to make it obvious and facilitate the care and supervision of the animal. The decision to transfer the animal under the supervision of another organisational cell of the formation concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by mentioning that the Act also provides for the possibility that the chiefs of services supervised by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, by the Director-General of the Prison Service and the Commandant of the Marshal's Guard in particularly justified cases of animal welfare, may extend the provisions of this Act to keepers of animals who were withdrawn from the service before the entry into force of this Law, on a specific request. This is also the result of a consultation with external stakeholders, with the various social organisations currently taking care of animals withdrawn from service and bearing costs. They will also be able to be covered by the provisions of this Law in specific cases upon request, after the decision of the competent service commanders. This is one of the demands that emerged in the debate in the Seym, and it has already been taken into account by us. All the proposed solutions are aimed at improving the situation of animals and their carers, who, as I said earlier, have so far borne all the costs of both feeding and caring for animals, and I often think that we are all aware of this. In view of the nature of the service of these animals in uniform formations, in formations under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or in the Armed Forces... This is a heavy service, so sometimes the cost of treatment was also very high. Now this duty, this necessity will be removed from these guardians. In fact, until now only in the State Fire Department, and to a very narrow extent, we have dealt with the participation of the service in these costs incurred by the guardian. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to stress that this law is in line with the social expectations, the expectations of the servants themselves, the carers of animals. I think that these expectations come from such an ethical sense of duty to provide decent care for animals that have served a very difficult and hard service to the state and to the citizens. I very much hope that, as in the Sejm, as in the committee yesterday, this bill will also be adopted in full agreement at the meeting of the High House today, in full consensus, because we owe it to our smaller brothers. I think I'm going to end up, just as I've finished all the previous speeches on this subject, the fact that I'm going to say that the measure of our humanity is our attitude towards animals. I think that today in this vote or later in this vote we will have the opportunity to express this. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I am, of course, ready to answer any questions if they appear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u149	Thank you very much, Minister. I also express this hope because this issue has been advocated for many, many years, and yet in the Senate there are also dogs serving here. So I am also personally very pleased that this case has finally found its finale in this House. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Janusz Gromek. There you go... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Then who?]] [[I'm sorry. Well, in that case, the senior intern...]] But the senator signed up first. There you go. I gave the floor... Mr. Senator Klein then... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Yes, Senator Klein...]] Dear Senator, ask the question. [[Voice from the room: I wanted to turn off...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u150	Minister, during this debate today... One fellow Member watches our debate and asks whether horses can be transferred free of charge to non-profit institutions. Can farm schools get a horse like that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u151	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u152	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! The Act provides for the possibility that social organisations whose statutory purpose is the protection of animals will also be able to become the guardian of an animal withdrawn from service under that law. So if we're dealing with social organizations, yes. Or farm schools? I am afraid that they do not have the status of social organisations and therefore could not have done so. [[Oh, that's too bad.]] Probably. But let's bear in mind that given that the senators themselves have asked me to make a rather synthetic presentation of the case... This law has, as you rightly pointed out, 66 pages and is a really extensive legal act. We provide for certain conditions, conditions or restrictions for each service in relation to the situation of animals withdrawn from the service, which are on the side of the keepers of these animals. For example, what's important, they can't dispose of these animals, they can't lead to the reproduction of these animals. A number of other conditions are indicated there. As I say, the draft law was consulted with social organisations, it was consulted with various environments, at the stage of the Parliament's work it also appeared somehow there. But, as always, we have to set a line somewhere when it comes to pointing out these guardians. It seems, ladies and gentlemen, that here this catalog of carers has been set out as widely as possible, and, frankly, I think each of us will agree that the best situation from the point of view of an animal withdrawn from service would be if this animal were under the care of its former guardian. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Such a situation, in which an animal would go to someone else, is treated by us as a last resort. Therefore, if we wanted to expand this catalogue, it might turn out that in the sixth or seventh choice there would be an additional institution or organization. Well, to put it this short, I'll say it's not possible under this law. Unless of course it's school. But I'm not in control here, and I'm not sure about that. It will have the status of a social organisation, perhaps at some agricultural school there is a foundation or other social organisation whose statutory purpose is the protection of animals, and then in practice it would be possible to extend the care of such an animal in the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u153	Senator Kazimierz Klein. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u154	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I very much support this law, and I am glad that it has been prepared and passed. Nevertheless, I urge Senator Janusz Gromek to make such an amendment, because agricultural schools, as if by their very nature, raise people to take care of animals, take good care of them and treat them well. And if this could be done, it wouldn't be necessary to create fictional situations in which a special foundation would be created or there would be a foundation at school to deal with this or another animal. But that's not what I'd like to ask. Here, on this occasion, because it's rare to talk about police matters, and that's what I'm doing, and I'd like to... I do not expect the Minister to respond at this meeting to this problem I would rather ask for an answer in writing. And the case indirectly concerns matters relating to this law, and it directly concerns the principle of the operation of the police in tourist destinations. I've been on this case for many years, writing letters to the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and Administration, to the Police Headquarters, but the case hasn't been settled for years. It's possible it requires statutory changes. The point is, it can't be that places that in the summer or winter season But mostly in the summer, because I know the case exactly on the example of a city I can tell you about... This city, where the police station is located, has about 4,000 permanent residents, but during the summer, months and weeks of the summit, it is 100,000 inhabitants. The city is then larger than the entire district of Lęborski. In the summer season, the police station is closed every day at 3:00 p.m., and on Saturdays and Sundays. When there are the most risks, the risks caused by different people, not only by such accidental risks, are closed. And this case isn't... The nearest police station is 30 km from this village, from Łeba. So how are they supposed to function... Can residents, tourists in emergency situations ask someone for help? This case seems to require an absolutely radical solution. It's possible that there's a legal change here, possibly a law like that on animals. But it has to be done. Because the district commander, the chief of the voivodship, they're still hiding from the fact that they can't do anything that they're giving an additional dozen cops over the years, but that doesn't solve any problems, because patrols Of course, there aren't enough cops. They take place... they're just car patrols, passing through the city, etc. And I've been talking about this for years, I'm saying... until some serious tragedy happens, and then everyone wakes up. Today, each of the ministers and chiefs is cutting me off, saying: we are dealing with it somehow. But that's gonna happen until then. The matter absolutely requires radical changes, so I ask the Minister to give written information on how you are finally going to solve the problem of police protection in tourist towns during periods of increased, so to speak, traffic. In these towns the number of people staying there is increasing many times, and it is not for a period of 1 day, as is the case with a match, sports event, just for a few months. That's it. I don't expect, God forbid, an immediate answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u155	Sir... [[I've already told you about these horses...]] Dear Senator, given the gravity of the problem, I have allowed this question, although it is not related to the subject matter of this item on the agenda. [[It's definitely related to the subject...]] But not with the issue that's being raised in this bill. Minister, will the Minister give you a written reply? [[In writing, please, not now. I'm even asking you not to...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u156	Mrs. Marshal, this is absolutely beyond the presentation we're discussing here, but of course... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: If you...]] There is no problem, we will answer this question, although in my opinion it is in no way related to this law. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Also in my opinion.]] Let me... Because the senator asked at the beginning of his speech with such an appeal that Senator Gromek should make an amendment. I would ask you not to make such an amendment. I'll tell you why. At yesterday's committee meeting, we considered a very similar casus regarding the possibility of passing animals withdrawn from uniform formations to organisations that conduct hippotherapy or dog therapy. Ladies and gentlemen, we must remember that animals used in the service, in uniform services, are often trained for a completely different purpose... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: For defense purposes.]] ...in a completely different character. After all, in the case of police, they are even treated as a means of direct coercion. Aggression or rather a response to aggression is included in the nature of their training. Therefore, in the case of dogs, there are really great doubts here. But in the case of horses that are used in the police, doubts are the same. As we analyze this casus, yesterday we came to such a conclusion that, in fact, in the case of those animals that could be used for this type of purpose... And here I see an analogy to the use of animals in agricultural schools. Well, it would turn out that we've created a statutory rule for a dozen animals. In the armed forces of the Republic of Poland there is now a plus minus 40 horses, and probably only some of them would qualify to use them in hip therapy. Well, we'd make a recipe about the statutory rank for a few animals. Here's the same situation. From all the animals that serve in the service and are withdrawn each year... And this is about 10%. animals serving in the service. Well, we'd actually make a recipe for a dozen animals. It seems to me that making such an amendment would be counterproductive, even bad. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much...]] And I promise you that on this other point, which is of interest to the senator, we will address it in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u157	Thank you very much, Minister. Minister, I have a question about these answers that have already been answered with answers to these 2 questions relating to the whereabouts of the animal after he has been removed from service. Does this bill contain some mechanism that encourages the keeper of the animal to... well, the horses also apply, but mostly it is for dogs. The dog who was raised by his guardian from a puppy is close to him. Anyone who has dogs is well aware that an animal simply suffers when it loses its connection, contact with its guardian. Are there mechanisms here that encourage carers through certain preferences to keep these animals?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u158	Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much for this question. In fact, today we are dealing with such a situation that, despite the lack of functioning of such rules, which would introduce, whether it is a flat-rate meal, whether it is covering the cost of treatment, most of these animals remain with their carers. This is because the bond that arises between an animal, which, as your marshal said, has been under the care of a particular officer of the chosen service since he was a little boy... This bond is so strong that the officer has no doubt that he wants to take care of this animal. Therefore, I dare say that no additional incentives are needed. The general, statutory regulation itself, i.e. the introduction of a food equivalent and coverage, let us stress this, the full cost of treatment and prevention in the care of the animal concerned... If anyone had any doubt or could not take this care for financial, material reasons, then this doubt ceases here. In this connection, I think we can say that this law does not create an incentive, but provides a solution to existing carers, perhaps the only problem that a small proportion of carers put before a dramatic choice when they could not take care of the animal for material reasons. That won't be a problem. Many times prevention costs or treatment costs These are huge resources. These funds will be included in the budgets of the formation, because the animals will always remain in the state of the formation. Therefore, I think this is where we solve the problem of both animals and their carers. [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Here in the Senate we had such a problem. The man who could retire just because of the dog who's in the service didn't retire because the dog couldn't yet.]] Now he'll be able to retire as well as his ward.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u159	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Are all professional dogs included in this law? What about the National Tax Administration? What in the case of the Railway Guard, the City Guard and rescue units, e.g. The ones who are looking for people under collapsed buildings? I get the impression that some will have better, and some will have worse, unless it's written somewhere in other laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u161	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! These questions have already been raised in the previous stages of the legislative process and we have always responded in the same way, although in the case of the institutions mentioned by your Senator, this answer will, of course, be different. In the case of National Tax Administration, animals used in this service... There are internal rules which, according to the Ministry of Finance and the KAS, provide sufficient care for these animals. For today, they have a name I'm using, the term you used, the senator. It is better than animals in other services. As we started... it's worth pointing out that in the first stage... You can even see that in the title of this bill. It was initially intended to cover the uniformed services of the Ministry of Interior and Administration, but at the consultation stage it included other institutions where animals are used for the service. So she was open-minded. The Ministry of Finance and the KAS responded to this invitation, stating that the situation was sufficiently regulated there. Why isn't it included in the Railway Guard project? The Railway Guard is not a state service. It is created by a commercial law company and it is a little difficult to imagine imposing an additional financial and supervisory obligation on such entities by means of this law. In the existing rules on rail transport, in Article. The 59th Act is located in the structure of the railway infrastructure manager. The manager or several managers shall jointly form a railway security guard. The costs shall be borne by the infrastructure managers. We'd be putting some costs on a commercial law company here. This bill is about animals in state services, and I think that's why it doesn't include the SOK. As far as the municipal guards are concerned, there is a somewhat similar situation here. The municipal guard may be created by the council of the municipality. Guards are an organisational unit of the municipality. The cost of operating the guards, and as a result... If we moved here by analogy this situation that animals remain in the state of the formation, they charge, as far as costs are concerned, the budgets of these formations, then we would impose an additional cost on local governments here. I don't think we have any grounds for that. I'd also like to say that there's nothing wrong with that. And from this room, and from other places where you have the opportunity to talk about it, there was an appeal for local authorities to introduce local solutions based on our law. I think it would be a very good call, the idea of a signal like this coming from us. There is a pattern that local governments could apply, but it seems that we do not have the right to interfere de facto with the budgets of these local governments here. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, what would happen? After all, such policy demands sometimes appear at local level if, for example, it were to be taken. the decision to liquidate the municipal guard in the unit concerned. It would create further, I think, complications. And probably as a result of following this logic, without forcing any other institutions, and other institutions excluding for reasons that I have just indicated, this law is limited to animals in the uniformed services under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and has also been extended in earlier stages to the Prison Service and Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. [[If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u162	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u163	I'll admit, the Minister didn't convince me. It was supposed to be a law more about animals, less about institutions, and what you said there, but it would confirm that, of course, outside the KAS and the finance minister, the situation of animals in other services is on average controlled, i.e. it is done on a voluntary basis, as the services of these animals treat...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u164	But all state services, except the KAS, which have separate regulations, will be treated in this way. [[Okay, but not the Railroad Guard and not the municipal guard.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u165	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Aleksander Pociej... [[No, Mrs. Marshal. I took the floor in the discussion, and very briefly...]] So it's not for questioning? [[Unable to ask a question.]] Thank you very much. No further questions. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Thank you very much, Minister, for the comprehensive presentation of the bill and the answers to questions. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of the Blaze Gody: Thank you very much, Mrs Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u166	Mrs. Marshal, I'll be very brief. I must say that I am built by the fact that we have been able to speak without interruption over an hour about the bill that we all support, for which we thanked the Minister, for whom we agree. Everyone agreed... And to the senator's question, in which there was a request for written reply, we immediately received a 15-minute statement, and, I understand, in writing, this reply will still be completed. I'm actually taking the floor because there's been some ideas about hip therapy here. Yeah, it's pretty clear. I thought that's what the minister was gonna say. The fact that police horses are not suitable for hipotherapy at all is because it is a completely different breed. All you had to do was say so much about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u167	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform that the senators: Aleksander Szwed, Ryszard Świlski, Janusz Pęcherz, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Mariusz Gromko, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Mieczysław Golba, Wiktor Durlak, Wadim Tyszkiewicz presented their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u168	We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the law amending the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 454, and the examination of the committee I kindly ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration of... [[Senator, talk a little louder, will you? A little louder, please... maybe speak closer to the microphone.]] I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration of 20 July 2021, on which a law amending the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and certain other laws was pending. This law amends the Act of 14 April 2021 on Personal Evidence which has not yet entered into force and which was to enter into force on 2 August 2021. Its essence was that from that date the identity cards containing fingerprints were to be issued. In turn, the issuing of evidence containing fingerprints depends on the implementation of appropriate technical solutions, appropriate devices. And here this condition has not been fulfilled. That is why the amendment of this law. As a result, a tender was issued for devices that would allow the issue of identity cards containing fingerprints. The tender was conducted, but An explanation from Minister Janusz Cieszyński from the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers appeared here. The Internal Security Agency has assessed that these devices cannot be used for safety reasons. This is the condition that this law will not enter into force on 2 August 2021. To prevent this, an amendment to this law has been prepared. The solutions contained in the amendment are that there will be no further date when this amended law is to enter into force, only the provision that on the entry into force of the law will be issued a communication by the Minister responsible for IT in agreement with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. This communication is to be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland at least 14 days before the date of implementation of technical solutions enabling the issuing of personal evidence containing fingerprints. There is another topic related to the validity of the proof. This original act of 14 April will not enter into force on 2 August 2021 only later. Hence, the evidence that will be issued after this date will be issued on the basis of the provisions of the old law. And there's going to be some kind of loophole that if this evidence were issued e.g. 2 weeks after 2 August, it is valid will be until 3 August 2031, which means it will be shorter than 10 years by these 2 weeks. And any evidence that would be released after 2 August of this year will be valid for a shorter period of time. And these are the two basic issues that this amendment of the law contains. As for the committee meeting, there were also proposals for amendments by the legislator. These were more precise, possibly orderly, amendments. After a rather long discussion, they were withdrawn. As regards the adoption of this law at a committee meeting, 4 senators abstained and 2 voted in favour, but then there was a discussion between the representative or lawyer of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister and the legislator and there was an agreement, consensus. So I can safely say that those who have abstained in the vote will at this point be in favour of adopting this law without amendment. And this is the solution I suggest to the High House: the adoption of this law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u170	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would Minister Janusz Cieszyński like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Janusz Cieszyński: Probably not, maybe...]] Is he willing to speak or not? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Janusz Cieszyński: No, no, thank you.]] But there will be questions for you. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Janusz Cieszyński: To which I will be happy to answer.]] [[Voice from the room: If they are.]] They will, because I'm gonna ask. There you go, Minister, right here in the middle. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, as a matter of fact, there will be questions. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query from a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I don't see any requests for questions, so I'm gonna ask a question like that. Minister, how did it happen that terminals were purchased because I understand that these are terminals that aren't suitable for... which aren't fully secure when it comes to a system that has to take prints, etc., to introduce this new rule? How did this happen? If you'd told me that... And who's responsible for that?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u171	Let me explain. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This topic has already been discussed, but I am convinced that it is necessary to clarify it very thoroughly so that we can all understand what situation we are dealing with here. The contract award procedure was carried out by means of an open invitation to tender and all interested tenderers were legally allowed to do so. As a result of this procedure, there was a company which met the technical requirements, which was valid for the relevant experience, i.e. it could confirm that it had supplied equipment of this class for the purpose of another order. At the moment when this company was selected, when we knew what the equipment was going to be, we asked the Internal Security Agency for an opinion on whether it met the requirements for sure. The question may arise as to why not first the opinion and then the order. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, above all because this is how the law of public procurement works in Poland. We wanted to use a maximum competitive mode, which gives us the opportunity to obtain the lowest price, the most favourable conditions, and therefore an unlimited tender was proposed, in which anyone who was legitimized by experience and provided equipment that meets the relevant criteria could participate. And what is the problem and the vulnerability reported by the Homeland Security Agency? It's not like the equipment that's been ordered doesn't meet any requirement. The problem is different. In this equipment And that's what anyone can confirm if they buy a box like this and start it. There's just more to it than that. You could say... I can't really go into detail here in completely open mode, but you can say there's something out there that we didn't order and which, I might say, is a vulnerability from the point of view of the security of this system, through which fingerprints will probably go through all the adult Poles. It could not be predicted that the equipment that would be supplied in this procedure would contain something extra, something that would make the safety vulnerability that the experts at the Home Office confirmed. And because of that... I'm answering your Marshal's question. In my view, this situation was very difficult to predict. What could have been done was to propose the use of another, also permitted under public procurement law, procedure, e.g. reduce the spectrum of suppliers and invite specific entrepreneurs who have experience in supplying such equipment. But then We know that there are many different forces around them: Ladies and gentlemen, you are restricting competition because not everyone can participate. Thus, following the desire to ensure the highest level of competitiveness, this was done in this way. It is worth pointing out that the procedure was scheduled at the end of last year, i.e. well in advance, allowing this equipment to be delivered according to the schedule that was set up. There were no appeals, no problems, everything was fine until the specific equipment was placed in the hands of our experts. And now, of course, the question is, is it right that we have to proceed with this bill today? Well, of course not. But if we thought about what is more good in this situation, whether security or keeping the original deadline, it would be quite obvious to us that security issues should be put first. That was the situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u172	Minister, let me ask you a question. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Janusz Cieszyński: Of course.]] Of course, I know that you were in a different place and that you weren't responsible for the equipment. You came and saw. It's a blessing. But I have a question: how much did this equipment cost, and is there any way to return the money? That's such a fundamental question. I don't quite understand that explanation. The equipment was ordered, the company won the tender, the equipment was bought, the equipment was paid for... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Janusz Cieszyński: No.]] Uh-huh. That's what I wanted to ask you. It wasn't paid, but there's equipment that has problems. I understand that some extra elements... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Janusz Cieszyński: I am already translating.]] Explain. It seemed to me that... okay. If it's not paid, the situation is pretty good. But does that mean that this company did a scam... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Janusz Cieszyński: I am already translating. I'll explain everything.]] ...insisting that I say so, Ministry of Misdirection? Whether in your opinion this was intended illegal activity, espionage, etc.? I understand that's the suggestion. I'm not gonna ask who did this, let the servants determine it. But what's the situation right now?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u173	Let me explain. I said it wasn't paid... Well, it sounds pretty bad we didn't pay for something, but we didn't pay because there was no reason for it. The contract was concluded in such a way that the payment was to be made after delivery of the equipment. We withdrew from the contract by delivering at least 1 piece to the municipal offices It was an agreement that included not only purchase but also delivery to local governments that issued personal evidence. So... [[And the installation, I'm sure, right?]] Yeah, yeah. Since there was no delivery, there was no reason to pay for anything in the present situation. And the deal's been terminated. In our opinion, the contractor has no claim to us for this. It is difficult for me to undertake an assessment of this entrepreneur's activities... It is also necessary to allow a situation in which, because this is the equipment that was ordered from abroad, maybe someone was not fully aware of what these additional conditions are, and because of this he offered such equipment. The moment it turned out that he didn't meet the safety requirements... Our contractor, you could say, accepted that we were solving this deal. There is absolutely no question of any loss of the State Treasury.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u174	Thank you, Minister. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]] Any more questions? Mr... [[Well, I don't see your marshal...]] But I see you. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We know we haven't. I understand we're not gonna be sued by this company either. Yes? Because we just turned down the deal and it was approved by this company. That's one thing. And two. Well, if this happened once, maybe the technical specifications of the order were wrongly formulated. I don't understand how you can... It's not that big of a technology again, not too much. In every other computer on the fingerprint you can... Or maybe it's just that this method is vulnerable to security violations. Maybe the municipal authorities shouldn't be doing anything, I'd call it by handing over fingerprints for the purpose of making IDs. Is the procedure right here? And one last question. Please specify, more or less, the deadline for implementing this solution. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Janusz Cieszyński: I am already translating...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u176	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u177	With regard to this second biometric feature, there is simply an EU requirement, Mr Senator, which indicates that all Member States... Here, too, it is worth pointing out that not all countries will be able to meet this deadline on 2 August. But that's maybe a side thread. All countries are required to introduce an identity document with a second biometric feature in order to improve security. This is related to certain plans for this moment set for May 2 of next year. To be able, on the basis of a national identity document, to cross the external border of the European Union... there will be support using this second biometric feature, such a second verification. Hence, such a decision that in all Member States this second biometric feature will be introduced. This, of course, has many consequences. One very practical one is that it will no longer be possible to submit an application for identity cards online, which has been practiced so far, and citizens have benefited from it. It won't be possible now. Well, that's the decision. You can say that all we have left is to do it in this respect. And because of this doubt that the senator raised, in terms of something that might be wrong on the part of the local government, this purchase is carried out centrally. It's being checked. Imagine that about 2.5 thousand municipalities would have to carry out a similar kind of procedure. Well, that could probably generate even more problems, and that's more distracted ones. You asked me a question about the possibility of a certain takeover, of compromising such equipment. She'll always be there, of course. Maybe I'll say a little anecdote. As in the United States, it was decided to equip politicians or high-ranking officials with phones that were to be produced 100% in the United States just to make sure that no one would do what we are talking about, that is, this extra thing will not add up. Well, these phones arrived, someone started one, gave it to analysis, and it turned out that there was a tiny module in it, and that was enough. And this is a situation that, unfortunately, in a time of progressive digitalisation and the entry of electronics into all areas of our lives, we have to face up to it, and we have to protect ourselves from it. Hence working with the Internal Security Agency to verify this equipment. That's why it's an urgent decision. Because it is also worth pointing out, Dear Sirs, that on July 2nd is the information from the Internal Security Agency, it was Friday on Monday, Tuesday the bill passes through the government, in very fast mode, goes to the Sejm and immediately urgently to the Senate, so that it will be converted as soon as possible. That's why we're acting on this safety issue as fast as we can. And if I can still answer the senator's last question, when can we expect it, what is the delay... We're just before ordering procedures begin, so I can't really talk about these details. I would estimate that this delay in relation to the original term will be calculated in weeks rather than months. That's the way I'd put it. We hope that some very serious complications will be avoided. Together with the team from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, we are working all the time to make this work. Let us also cooperate, because it is the Ministry of the Interior today through the voivodship offices that uses You must be familiar with the senator. In the case of passport documents, fingerprint readers... It is available in the voivodship offices, in the various municipal offices, which have such passport points, and that's where it works, so we work together to make sure that the specification that the senator was talking about is as good as possible and there were no problems. [[Excuse me, Mr...]] [[You're welcome.]] [[The May term, I understand, set at the beginning of May next year, is not threatened?]] In our opinion, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u178	There are no more questions. Minister, thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Janusz Cieszyński: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion... [[Mr. Marshal, there's another question. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz is registered.]] Oh, excuse me, Minister. It's from another room, I didn't notice. [[Voice from the room: As always...]] There you go, Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u179	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you're just a minister, so I don't know if you can answer all the questions. But with regard to these claims... Is there a basis for claims against the company? Because financial losses may not be accounted for, but when it comes to intangible losses, failure to meet deadlines, it seems to me in the contract, such a provision should be included. And the question is whether the state against the company will, however, draw any consequences. Second question. And you're not the culprit here again, but I'll ask. Why, despite the 2-year-old vacathio legis of the EU regulation, which imposes new uniform identity cards on the Member States, the Polish government announces a tender for fingerprint readers just a moment before the date of entry into force of the national rules? Is this just a situation concerning Poland? What other Member States have managed, and what other Member States have failed to cope with this task? Because the question is whether new identity cards will be introduced in all EU countries. And a question about self-government. How are local governments supposed to behave? After all, the law will apply in the procedural and material fields. Will it be that citizens and officials will be subject to the new rules, but we will be If you don't make it, maybe you can make it. Did they receive evidence according to the current formula? And one last question about local governments. I was still the president of computer equipment, and I was introducing new identity cards to the civil status offices in 2015. He was for handling and exchanging IDs. This equipment is already without warranty, without the support of the manufacturer when it comes to operating systems, etc. Do you consider that this is another factor that could affect the inability of the entire infrastructure to issue new personal evidence? And one last remark or question. In the draft State budget for 2022, do you assume funds to equip municipalities with new computers to carry out the commissioned tasks? Because those that are from 2015, I think, in 2022, will not fulfill these expected tasks. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u180	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u181	As regards the termination of the contract, it was resolved at the request of the Ministry for important reasons, in this case it was precisely to obtain the opinion of the Internal Security Agency. According to my knowledge, in the case of the application of this mode which allowed us to withdraw quickly from this contract, no contractual penalties are charged, but if there are any claims which the Treasury may have against the contractor, then of course they will be charged with full force. The senator also asked why this tender was so late. As I have already pointed out in one of my previous statements, I find it difficult to agree with this view. The tender was made even before the legislative work on the bill was finalised, so... Well, that clearly indicates that this has been done rationally in advance, because the notice of procedure was published in December. It certainly took a while to prepare the documentation, it can be said that about halfway through the vacathio legis, I estimate that the work on the tender documentation began. It is also worth pointing out that if not for this, very difficult to predict the vulnerability of security, all this would have worked out, these readers would have reached local governments and we would have no problem. Moving on to self-government issues... With regard to the design of these provisions, it provides that personal evidence according to the old model will be issued until the Minister responsible for IT, in agreement with the Minister of Home Affairs, has issued a communication, which will be given 14 days in advance, which, in our opinion, will allow the local authorities to adapt to this new procedure. Choosing a convenient term will allow the local government to adapt to this. The only inconvenience, but not so much for the local government as for the citizens, will result from the fact that these evidences issued during this period, i.e. to the entry into force of this communication, this will be evidence that may have a term of validity no longer than August 2031, i.e. it can be said that someone will have a valid identity card, for example, 9 years and 11 months. This, of course, is an inconvenience, but I think it is relatively small in terms of the scale of the situation. This will require work in fact in 10 years' time, when the number of documents needed to issue an identity card will be accumulated after this period. However, the local government already has experience with such rigors and I know that local authorities are able to organize all of this in order to deal with this issue perfectly. You've also asked me about the equipment, and you've said that this equipment is perhaps too well served, that there's no guarantee... Of course, it is worth pointing out that the local government receives the funds for the tasks commissioned. But in order not to bounce the ball like this, but to add something constructive here, I would like to say that I would like to inform you that already this year the program of the digital municipality is starting, and under this programme all the municipalities in Poland will receive funds to be used for various kinds of needs connected with digitization. In addition to one mandatory element, which will be carried out a cybersecurity audit... And this is, I think, something worth doing, it's worth it for everyone to do it and for everyone to invest in it. This audit will later be sent to the CSIRT responsible for the supervision of local authorities, i.e. NASK, and so we will proceed to ensure that every local authority has such a chance to carry out the audit, of course, from the funds that will be transferred under the programme to the digital municipality and there will be a 100% level of co-financing. The remaining funds will be used à la carte, according to the decision of the state of self-government, and can be used in particular for the purchase of new equipment for self-government and its subordinates. I think this is an excellent opportunity to also mention the equipment that is used to carry out the commissioned tasks. For this program I think I can say that, too. We will spend less than PLN 1 billion from European funds. So that these measures will be quite a lot. They'll be there too. This is my intention to distribute in a way that will take into account the degree of prosperity of the municipality, we will look here at this G indicator, which is objective, in my opinion, the measure of this and will allow us to spend these funds in accordance with the principles of sustainable development. [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u182	Yes, Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u183	Minister, it is very nice that the funds from Polish digital will go to local governments, but I would not confuse them with the tasks assigned, because these are specific tasks, computers are specific and the equipment is specific. So I'd like to ask you not to connect it with me. Because the fact that computers are gonna go to government offices and local governments is great, but the assignment is a little different. And such a remark: the means which the voivodship and the state transmit to civil status offices, for example, are not sufficient for the functioning of these offices. This is a story that has haunted local governments for many years. That money is definitely not enough. So there's a request. I'm ready to talk. . that we should seek a solution, but that these tasks should be carried out by means of money intended for these tasks. And my last question. Please tell me: if you fail with new IDs, what will happen if the citizen of our country wants e.g. to fly, and the old evidence will not be taken into account in EU countries when you are on board the aircraft? And someone like that. will not fly away because there will be new identity cards and Polish will be old? It's just a human thing. Is that a possibility you're considering? Once again: if we fail, as a state, as Poland, with new evidence, what will happen during the journey and in respect of the police or by authorities of other Polish countries of the old identity card? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u184	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u185	Well, as far as the police are concerned, you can't take a ticket. Sorry, it's a joke. But of course, these evidences will be important, they will be honored, in our opinion there is no problem here. The only rule that European legislation introduces concerns the date of validity of the new documents. So all documents issued after August 2 will be valid no longer than August 2031. So that even if they are issued without a second biometric feature, it will in no way constitute grounds for not recognising such a document, e.g. As the senator pointed out, crossing the border on a plane. [[Okay, you calmed me down, Minister. And as for this equipment for civil status offices and financing our own tasks, shall we sit down at the table?]] Senator, in my opinion, we already put almost PLN 1 billion of funds from Polish digital, at the disposal of local government. Of course, I'm ready to talk about the details. I think it's hard to imagine we're gonna have an envelope specially for these assignments. I also think that there is some reasonableness in what we are talking about here, because in my opinion it is the self-governments themselves who know best where the priority is when it comes to the exchange of equipment. Well, you'll admit that there could be a situation where, for example, we would finance the replacement of equipment for the tasks commissioned, and it would be at the expense of... Well, because we know that of course this entire budget And I'm not just talking about digital Poland, but about other issues, in a sense, it's limited. And maybe we wouldn't replace any other equipment that could be even more intensively used. But I accept this remark, and I promise that we will lean on what the situation looks like when it comes to equipment specifically designed for commissioned tasks. I would not like to declare at this point what specific actions we could take in this regard, but I accept that this is an important subject that deserves to be taken into account and which requires a constructive solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u186	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions for you. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Janusz Cieszyński: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Benjamin Godyla, Janusz Pęcherz, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Janusz Gromek and Wadi Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Let me remind you that point eight, i.e. The law amending the Act on the Agency for Medical Research and certain other laws will be examined on the second day of the session. We therefore proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on political parties. The text of the Act is contained in print No 436 and the examination of the committee I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u187	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. This is another law today that has raised no doubt. The vote took place, the bill was adopted unanimously. Also in the opinion of our Senate Legislative Office, it is stated in the final remarks that the Act raises no doubts about the technical and legislative nature. This law regulates the scope of information contained in the political party records, introduces the obligation to disclose it in the Public Information Bulletin and limits the disclosure of the addresses of natural persons whose personalities are contained in the register. The introduction into the law of a separate provision concerning the scope of information contained in the register of political parties does not change the situation so far, as the elements contained in the added article. 17a are already in the political party records. This is the result of the Regulation. It is a novelty, however, that they must be mentioned by the court in the Public Information Bulletin. To date, the court has published only some of the information contained in the records in the Public Information Bulletin. It is also a novelty to limit the transparency of the addresses of persons appearing in the records. We also had the opinion of the National Chamber of Legal Counsels at our disposal, which also stated in its conclusions that this law does not raise doubts. She comes from the requirements of GIODO. The aim is to ensure that personal data that are normally reserved It goes on, among other things. Addresses of those persons They were simply protected. So it's a simple, short bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u188	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? No such questions. The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk has been authorised to present the position of the Members of the draft law's applicants. There is information that the Member will not make it. Is Mr Mularczyk here? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. At present, senators could report no more than a minute of query to the authorised representative of applicants from the place. But there's a representative of the government who's gonna be able to ask questions like this... [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no representative of the government until this point.]] There's no government rep either? [[Voice from the Chamber: No, because only the Member was to this point.]] So I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I inform you that the senators: Ryszard Świlski, Aleksander Szwed, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Mariusz Gromko, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Januszek Gromek presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Code. The text of the Act is contained in print No 430 and the report of the committee In print No 430 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The Civil Code is being amended at the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland. I must say that they were adopted by the Sejm without raising much debate. They all considered that the addition of the civil code to include cases in which the immediate family members may be compensated for the injury suffered by the injured person's injury or health disorder was necessary. Up to now, the loved ones could only receive such compensation in the event of the death of the injured person, which resulted in a break in the family relationship, and of course there have been losses resulting from the inability to make contact with that person. This is a good solution and the committee has shared that view. The only issue raised in the debate that took place in the joint committees concerned the precision of the wording contained in the provision. Therefore, the word "permanent' was replaced by "inverse' and the words "inability to establish or continue' were replaced by "breaking'. In the event of irreversible injury, it is possible to claim compensation and it is said that it is impossible to establish or continue contact. The words 'inability to establish or continue' have been replaced by 'breaking up'; it is about breaking up contact with a person who is irreversibly ill. The amendment tabled by the senator now speaking to you was supported by 11 senators, no one opposed it, 6 abstentions. The law was unanimously adopted in its entirety together with the amendment adopted. I therefore make one amendment to this House and ask for the vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u190	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any questions? No questions, Senator. Thank you very much. This bill was introduced by the President. Ms Małgorzata Paprock, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, was authorised to present the President's position. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would definitely like to take the floor, and I would like to start by allowing myself to make a slight correction. The President's intention to submit this legislative initiative is due to the fact that today it is possible to pursue the claims referred to in that law, but they are nevertheless decided on the basis of a provision or article. 446 §4, or Art. 448 Civil Code. The courts treat these rules and make them by analogy. But since there has been a divergent line of case law, particularly in the Supreme Court, it is because of what facts this law concerns, as well as given the constitutional values, above all the equality of citizens with the law, the principle of citizens' trust in the State and its rights, President Andrzej Duda considered that it was necessary to interfere with the civil code in order for this matter to be clearly decided and there was no doubt as to the legal basis for judging damages in these situations referred to in this project. High Senate, I allow myself to express my opinion on the amendments to the Act presented and presented by the joint committees. First of all, I would like to stress that the law was adopted unanimously by the Sejm, and also the Senate Legislative Office has no comments on the bill. However, there are very serious consequences, and these are the very negative consequences proposed by the joint committees of the amendment. The amendment deals with issues that were discussed during the legislative work in the Sejm and then these arguments were repeated also in the Senate. The wordings used in the Act, i.e. severe and permanent damage to the body or causing a health disorder, as well as the inability to establish or continue a bond, were deliberately and fully used in the presidential proposal and are a prominence of the wording used by the courts, in particular the Supreme Court. And that implies a certain understanding of these expressions. The effect of the proposed amendments is drastic and unjustified. It primarily reduces the number of beneficiaries of this project. And the amendment results not only in limiting this circle to the law in the wording adopted by the Sejm, but, even worse, also in the deterioration of the situation of people who today, on the basis of the provisions previously mentioned by me, i.e. art. 446 §4 and 448, may pursue their claims. Is that the intention of the Senate? I'm allowing myself to put a question mark here. If the word "heavy and lasting'... sorry, the word "permanent' will be replaced by the word "reversible', then a very serious question arises: will the judicial expert be able to conclude that the condition is irreversible? Ladies and gentlemen, High Senate, we are talking about situations that can last 30, 40 years. There's a medical development. The question is whether the expert will be able to determine this irreparability in the course of the judicial proceedings. The word "permanent," as I said earlier, is the result of case law. It will allow the High Senate to quote the understanding of permanent injury on the body or health upset. That's what I'm talking about. And so it is understood in the case law that the physical fitness of the body, body, organ or system is affected, which causes the body's activities to fail to improve, i.e. permanent. Such a person will not return to his former condition. It follows that such a provision absolutely does not allow for any extension of interpretations or judgment of redress in the event of a short-term break-up of several months. I will also refer to the second part of the amendment. Replacing the alternative with the inability to establish or continue the term "break-up" would have a second, very serious effect in the form of narrowing down the circle of entities. This amendment would prevent usciturus from seeking redress. Of course, we are talking about perinatal errors, and it is both about the baby that is born, and also about the parent waiting for this child. Ladies and gentlemen, High Senate, we are talking about rare but particularly dramatic situations. Parents are expecting a child, they are happy, everything looks good, and then there's some kind of perinatal error, and this bond cannot be established. This wording was not introduced rashly by the designer, it is also the result of the case law of the Supreme Court, which clearly differentiates these two situations. Without further ado, High Senate, I kindly ask on behalf of the President to adopt the bill, but in the wording adopted by the Sejm. Please don't make any adjustments to it. Excuse me, let me just add that the article is consistently being changed. 2. This is therefore the case and Article. 1, and Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the I move that the High Senate accept this in the presentation which the Sejm has adopted, as I said, unanimously. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u192	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. But maybe there'll be questions, so stay a little longer. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's request to the authorised representative of the President. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a good thing the Minister pointed that out. Me, for example. I abstained at the committee meeting, but I will now, of course, oppose these amendments because they are ill-considered. But I have another question. It's about whether this bill... How far back will it go? This applies to cases which occurred before the entry into force of this law, but I do not know how the limitation is dealt with in such a case. Since when will this reparation count? Because it's a one-time payment, but she's for something, too, for some period of losing those family ties. So here's the question: are there any inter-temporal issues that need to be taken into account in order to meet the needs of all those who come by, for example. in a terminal state where there is no contact with the outside world, and they've been in that state long enough? This bill gives you opportunities. The question is, how far back is it? Wouldn't it be necessary to add some transitional provisions to this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u194	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u195	Mr. Senator! High Senate! It seems that this project No, at the moment it is already a law, which is a comprehensive regulation in this regard. In part, of course, the general principles of the Civil Code will apply here. But this is actually a rather unusual situation, precisely because of the art used in this law. 2. This is the aftermath of this situation that I mentioned at the beginning. Because today the courts And there's been a discrepancy in the case-law line here, and they believe that it's possible to obtain this compensation on the basis of... Similarly, an article shall be taught. 446 and 448. In the opinion of the President, it was necessary to do so. I would say that, on the one hand, this was due to the rightness of the solution and, on the other hand, that the constitutional rules allow for the introduction of retroactivity here. But it's a retreat, I would say, a little apparent, because if these claims are being prosecuted today, the redress is settled, it's just a matter of which line of inquiry will be the dominant line. And the dominant judicial line, so far, is the judicial line that agrees with the bill. Therefore, for the sake of clarity and, as I mentioned, equality with regard to the law and respect for the principles of the Article. In its proposal, the President's 2 constitution proposes that this issue be decided explicitly. But that does not affect the provisions concerning the limitation period of the article. 4421 and the question of how the circle of operators is determined, how limitation issues are resolved. The rules of the Civil Code remain in force here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u196	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: Thank you kindly.]] I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of you... [[Voice from the courtroom: Yet the Minister of Justice from the Ministry of Justice can also...]] Uh-huh. Does a representative of the Ministry of Justice want to take the floor? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Katarzyna Frydrych: Yes.]] You're welcome. That's a government rep from the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'll correct: there's no government position. I represent the Ministry of Justice. The Act, which was passed on 24 June this year. through the Sejm, completes the legal gap. It guarantees those who are in such a situation that their closest family member has sustained permanent injury, the possibility of seeking redress. That's the result. e.g. the situation we have as regards the discrepancy in the case law of the Supreme Court and the general courts. These situations have been judged differently by the courts. Indeed, one court relied on its decision, considering that such a claim was entitled to it, on the basis of Article. 448 and others by analogy used Article. 446 §4 of the Civil Code. The President's initiative must therefore be regarded as very positive. It creates citizens' confidence in the state and its laws. As a result of the work of the joint Senate committees, an amendment was voted out, which introduced an indication of irreversible damage to the body or health disorder, replacing it with a condition of permanent injury or health disorder. An amendment was also introduced which provides for redress only in the event of a break-up of family ties. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, this amendment changes the principles and purpose of the bill. I would like to point out that if we see and check the definition of the words "permanent" and "reversible" in the dictionary of the Polish language, it will turn out that "permanent" is unchanged and "reversible" is one whose consequences cannot be removed. The Civil Code, as well as other laws, use the term permanent incapacity, e.g. Article 2 991 Civil Code, Art. 1059 point 4 of the Civil Code or finally Article. 156 §1 (2) of the Criminal Code. Therefore, there is no doubt that the argument for using the Civil Code In the law that the High House is proceding The term "permanent" is a need to maintain terminology coherence. Under the Civil Code, the term "permanent' or "permanent' in relation to health concerns appears in a number of provisions. Invertible is not a code concept, which means that its introduction may lead to doubts in courts as to the need to distinguish between these two concepts, since the legislator uses the term "permanent' and introduces the concept "reversible'. There may be doubts about the case law of the general courts and of the Supreme Court. The adoption by the committee of a change of disposal in respect of a provision from the inability to establish or continue a bond at the end of a family relationship will lead to a limitation of the circle of persons entitled to redress. It is a question of possible exclusion from the circle of persons who would have the prospect of establishing a family relationship with the victim, but because of an incident resulting from an illegal act, they cannot establish that relationship. We can imagine that the court will find that there has been no family connection at all before an event that has caused harm and harm, and thus considers that there is no reason to make amends. This can happen in relation to newborn children at the time of the incident. Once again, I would like to point out that the inability to continue the relationship is not equivalent to its break-up, but the exclusion of the notion of inability to establish a bond leads to a limitation of the provision's availability and thus changes the purpose and purpose of the law. Mr Marshal, High Senate, I ask you very much to reject this amendment and to adopt the law as adopted by the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u198	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's request to a representative of the Ministry of Justice. No questions. Thank you, Minister, no questions asked. I'm opening a discussion... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, I didn't come forward sooner, but...]] There you go. Minister, I'm so sorry, I understand that... [[Voice from the room: Questions?]] But do you come forward for discussion or questions? [[It's for discussion.]] Oh, for discussion. Well, thank you... I'm just opening a discussion. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor... Senator Lover speaking. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u199	Thank you very much. I wasn't supposed to speak in the debate, but the speeches of both ladies provoked me to do so. I will defend the amendments and amendments proposed by the joint committees for one simple reason. Well, it's been a long time since the state, writing down certain things in certain laws, doesn't say that only in codes, you care about the so-called. enumerativity: slow this, this, this, and nothing else. In this way, the spirit of the law can be removed from any code. The law that says that not only does death break the bond and, for obvious reasons, not bonding, is a clear desire to reward the loved ones of the absence of the person who is leaving this world. If this death occurred because of someone else's evil will, that's all the more reason. It is very good that the legal gap is filled with this situation when a person injured by a criminal offence, a criminal offence, a permanent injury, which does not mean irreversibly, he will not recover irreversibly, so that his or her condition prevents his or her from establishing a proper relationship, a proper contact. So if someone stays in a coma, then it's obvious that their closest ones aren't in the right place for the family, for the closeness of contact. Therefore, I do not believe that it is permanently equivalent to "unreversibly' and that the court, having this opportunity, will, in a situation where it is permanently recorded, determine the compensation and, in a situation where it is written "unreversibly', will not judge. I also do not believe that the broken ties mean that the unborn child did not have a relationship with a loved one, even because we recognize the right of unborn children to inherit. So the bond may not have been established yet, but it was definitely broken. And I don't believe a judge who reads the spirit of the law because of a change of words won't settle for damages. That's it. That's it. Not a bad will, not a willingness to change, but the opinion of the law professor, Mr.Mark Chmaj, was dictated by these amendments amending the bill. So they were not an invention of the non-senators' law, but they were based on the grounds contained in the opinions that Prof. Marek Chmaj prepared for this bill. Let us not forget, ma'am, that not the letter of the law, but the spirit of the law is important, and this is particularly important for young lawyers, in my opinion. I have already asked representatives of both the Ministry of Justice and the President, young, probably very capable lawyers, who advises them. And I always get this answer: no, they're based on their experiences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u200	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Ryszard Świlski, Aleksander Szwed, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Mariusz Gromko made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 438 and the report of the Commission In print No 438 A. But I see there are no representatives of the ministry... Okay, so I'm declaring a recess... [[Voice from the room: But there is a rapporteur...]] Okay, sir... They're here, right? Good. [[The Minister will be ready in time, I'll make a quick report...]] I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The substantive side will be presented because it is a government initiative, present in the Chamber by Minister Sebastian Kaleta. I would like to present a report to the joint committees. The Senate Marshal sent the draft to the Joint Committee, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on 28 June. The bill was examined at the meeting of the two joint committees on 7 July. The Commission adopted a total of 7 amendments, the list of which the State has, and of course the whole of the law. And the substance will be presented by the applicant, which is the government side.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u202	But at present, senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to the Senator of the rapporteur. No such questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Sebastian Kaleta like to speak? Yeah, I can see that. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Senators! The Act implements a number of judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning matters relating to certain facilitations for consumers in relation to the execution of the bills. This concerns legal proceedings, as well as the issue of service and translation. There are four such sentences. The convenience for consumers, which results from this law, is to reduce the charge for bringing charges against the order for payment to a maximum of PLN 750. In this respect, each of the solutions proposed by the Act introduces certain consumer facilities. The government project, followed by the Seym Law, also enhances the possibilities to combat unfair competition between entrepreneurs. This is very important from the perspective of the requests made to the Ministry of Justice regarding the possibility of wider competition protection by judicial means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u204	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I have a question for the Minister. Minister, is this bill related to the fact that... to the judgments of the European Court of Justice? Yes? [[Secretary of State at Sebastian Kalet's Ministry of Justice: That's right, Mr. Marshal.]] Tell me, on what basis does the Ministry determine which judgments the European Court of Justice honors and which judgments it does not honour? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet: Mr. Marshal...]] That's the situation. The Ministry accepts a visible part of its judgments and some, e.g. the last sentence concerning the justice system, does not accept.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u205	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much for this question. It should really fall down today. I'd be very happy to answer them because this bill shows where... We as Poland know and respect our commitments to the European Union. Consumer protection follows directly from Article. 169 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which sets out the objectives of consumer protection. We have taken these commitments directly upon ourselves and the European Union is empowered to harmonise the rules in this respect. As a result of the Court of Justice's assessment in several cases, our consumer protection system should be improved in several points. And that's exactly how it is, Mr. Marshal. Poland implements a lot of judgments The Court of Justice of the European Union, because the European Union has acquired a number of competences from Poland. The competence standards, the areas in which the European Union has gained such competence, are very precisely indicated in the Treaties. I'm glad to be able to bring up an art here. 169 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which clearly points out that the Union protects consumers and protects them through concrete measures. I understand the intention of the Marshal's question, because it also concerns the justice system. I assure you, Mr Marshal, that such a provision of competence for the European Union, which is so formulated, does not exist in the Treaties on justice. This is the reason for the dispute in this area, which found its finality at the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u206	Thank you, Minister. I won't argue with you as a question. Minister, I'm sorry. Senator Czerwiński wants to ask you a question, so come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u207	I'm sorry to bother you again, but I have one question: one question, whether we're here, doing this sentence, we just didn't overdo it at some point. Well, it's about the first change, Art. Point 1 (1). She seems innocent: the wording of the designated operator shall be replaced by the words of the postal operator. It's about sending mail, for example. the pleadings. While the operator is probably designated one at the moment, i.e. Poczta Polska, the postal operators in general are probably about 780 and these are very different companies. How can we be sure that the handwriting that we send through such a company I don't want to use a name here. It'll get there, for example. to the court at the right time, because it matters too? If the legislator gives this opportunity, then it can result in repercussions, e.g. request to restore the deadline, etc. Aren't we going too far here as a result of this sentence? Well, giving it to the post office gives you confidence. At least I have that feeling, I think most citizens do too. And sending a package to some store. Not to downplay this store. Which has the status of a postal operator, certainly not, at least in my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u208	Mr. Senator's concern is not unfounded. Indeed, the number of entities registered as postal operators is significant. However, what is important, the standard of this postal service is precisely specified so that it can be considered as being properly implemented. Thus, not each of the companies that are registered can actually provide this service. The requirements are based on this... Poland must respect the fact that there may be entrepreneurs who wish to offer such a service. They can, of course, do so when certain conditions are met. Entrepreneurs who are registered, i.e. able to provide such a service, are additionally controlled in this respect. Our country should recognise the performance of this service by those who meet the conditions. Yes, there may be situations in the future where it will be embarrassing. However, here we are talking, if I remember correctly, more about the issue of sending shipments from abroad than procedural letters in Poland... [[Not only that, Minister.]] [[Thank you...]] Perhaps I'll be able to clarify that in a moment. I lacked one document here, because as I approached the speaker... The requirements of EU law in this respect are that companies that comply with the registration conditions and are allowed to participate in the market can provide this service. However, this service itself has certain requirements, it cannot simply be leaving a letter anywhere. Yeah, well, if anybody's suggesting that... There are appropriate requirements for the standard in which this service is to be provided, and only the operator's compliance with those requirements in the context of the provision of that service makes this service actually considered as a proper assignment of the letter. [[Well, you didn't dispel my doubts.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u209	No further questions? Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed, Mariusz Gromko and Benjamin Godyla made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Alexander Pociej. The discussion is closed. Does the government representative want to comment on the proposal? Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, I haven't heard the motion right now, please... Good. Is the government representative... Because there's a legislative proposal... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Sebastian Kalet: We're talking about Senator Pociej's amendment, right?]] Yes. If you...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u210	That Senator Pociej's amendment was... During the committee meeting, there was such a discussion that perhaps in cooperation between the legislators a better formula for the article would be drawn up. Point 1 (3) (a) and §2, and that sound which Senator Pociej submitted is the result of these discussions. Therefore, as a representative of the Ministry of Justice, I consider that this wording actually reflects the intentions of the applicant and deserves to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u211	Thank you, Minister. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would like to remind you that paragraph 12 of the Law amending the Law We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Alien Species Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 440 and the committee report In print No 440 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Janusz Błucher, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the law on alien species adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland at its thirty-third meeting on 24 June 2021. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to these committees on 28 June. The joint meeting of the two committees took place on 7 July. Following the review of the bill, the committees bring: The High Senate will approve the attached draft resolution. The main objective of the Act is to introduce a harmonised, comprehensive system of protection against invasive alien species at European Union level, IGO. The Act provides in particular: the tasks and competences of public administrations and other bodies to prevent the introduction and spread of alien species; restrictions on the introduction into the environment and the movement in the environment of alien species; the rules on liability for infringement of the proposed law; information to the public about invasive alien species through the creation of a central register of IGO data. The Act also regulates the functioning of the so-called. amateur circuses by excluding them from the catalogue of operators exempted from the prohibitions applicable to dangerous species. The Foreign Species Act specifies 2 main types of IGO, i.e. species presenting a threat to the European Union and species presenting a threat to Poland. The Act sets out the general competences of the Director-General for Environmental Protection related to the implementation of Regulation No 1143/2014 and that Law. The Act also defines the competences and responsibilities of regional environmental directors, national park directors, maritime directors and the chief sea fisheries inspector. The law regulates issues related to violations of foreign species regulations, IGOs that pose a threat to the European Union or IGOs that pose a threat to Poland. The Act gives the possibility of imposing an administrative penalty of up to PLN 1 million for violating any of the prohibitions set out in Article. 7 of that law or article. The 7th regulation I mentioned earlier. The bill came from a government proposal. During the second reading, 30 amendments were tabled at the thirty-third meeting of the Sejm, of which the committee requested adoption 23. The amendments adopted in the first and second readings in the Sejm did not have a significant impact on the content of the Government's proposal for substantive decisions. The Sejm adopted the bill as proposed by the committee with 418 votes in favour and 10 votes against and 1 member abstained. The bill finally addressed to the Senate consists of 74 pages and 60 articles. Along with the justification for the 25 pages, the impact assessment and information on the consultation and reports on their implementation and the annexes, it has a total of 237 pages. It should be noted that the draft law has been widely consulted despite a number of adversities related to both pandemic and departmental changes in ministries. Among other things. It has been submitted twice to inter-ministerial agreements and has been sent to 41 interested parties and to the Marshals of voivodships, Regional Environmental Directors, National Park Directors, Chief Environmental Officer, National Water Management Board, National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, State Forest Farms, Forests, Forestry Research Institute and National Council for Nature Protection. The bill was also sent to representative employers' organisations, among others. to the Employers of the Republic of Poland, the Confederation of Leviathan, the Association of Crafts of Poland, the Association of Employers of the Business Centre Club and the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers. In view of the scope of this project, which concerns the issue of local government, the draft law was sent for an opinion by the Joint Commission of the Government and the Territorial Self-Government and received a positive opinion twice, but with due regard to the protection of resources for the actions of local self-government units in the field of the eradication of invasive alien species, which was also strongly raised in the parliamentary debate. Ms Małgorzata Golińska, Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the main conservationist of nature, together with a team of substantive co-workers, Ms Anna Gembicka, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, also with co-workers, representatives of State Forests, Mr Marek Gromiec, expert of the Environment Committee, and Mr Mirosław Reszczyński, chief legislator of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Senators Jadwiga Rotnicka, Zdzisław Pupa, Jerzy Chróścikowski, Sławomir Rybicki and Janusz Pęcherz, and an expert from the Environment Commission Marek Gromiec spoke in a discussion that was very factual and very good. It dominated questions to government representatives concerning the most invasive species and their humanitarian fight. There were also questions about the American mink in the context of not listing it in the IGO list. Or a cormorant causing great damage to fishing and being protected despite alien origin. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka asked how far we want to go in eliminating invasive species, whose species are specifically concerned and whether we should definitely eliminate them to zero. President Zdzisław Pupa also asked about your efforts to help local governments effectively eliminate, among others. some species of borscht, such as Sosnowski's borscht. Most of the questions were answered by Minister Małgorzata Golińska and a representative of the State Forests. Before voting, the opinion on the bill was presented by Mirosław Reszczyński, proposing a number of amendments. After the discussion, the Senators of the Joint Committee accepted 2 of the proposed amendments and eventually unanimously adopted the whole of the Act together with the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u213	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? No questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Małgorzata Golińska like to speak on the bill under consideration? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Invasive alien species are plants, animals or pathogens, as well as other organisms that are not native to ecosystems and can cause damage to the environment or the economy or adversely affect human health. In particular, these alien species have a negative impact on biodiversity, including reducing the population and eliminating native species through food competition, predators, but also by transmitting pathogens or disrupting the functioning of ecosystems. The problem of invasive alien species, the IGO, is constantly growing, especially with the development of global trade, transport and tourism, making it easier to introduce IGO into the environment and further spread. Foreign species come to Poland mainly from other countries of Europe, where they were originally dragged or intentionally imported. Often they can escape from breeding, sometimes deliberately released into the environment. Some animals follow the food base, e.g. following the imported host plants. If, for a species, the new environment is sufficiently similar to that of the native species, it can survive and reproduce, and without encountering natural enemies or other constraints, it can become invasive by expanding its occurrence, it can often displace native species. Why it is important that we take 'Cause this isn't happening from now on. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The process of disseminating the IGO has an impact on the increase in socio-economic costs, health costs and environmental costs worldwide. It is enough to say that already in 2002 parties to the Convention The UN on Biological Diversity concluded an agreement on a global broad approach to the problem of invasive species and called on governments to raise awareness, involve communities and cooperate with neighbouring countries. Today, alien species are considered to be one of the main causes of biodiversity loss in the world. At international level, it has been agreed that the problem of invasive alien species requires a 3-step approach. The cheapest and best solution is prevention. This means closer border controls, better exchange of information at regional, national and international level. Once the invasive species has settled in, the most effective action is to eliminate it. Central coordination, but also funding, is essential in order for such action to cover larger areas. In order to stop the further spread of invasive species, where elimination is impossible, isolation and long-term control is necessary in order to prevent further spread. Although not every alien species is an invasive species, it is prudent to recognise all emerging species, and we, as government authorities, but also local authorities, must be ready to solve potential problems quickly. Early detection and rapid response are the least costly and promising solutions. The solutions proposed in the Act not only allow for the adaptation of the national control system for alien species to the European Union's comprehensive approach, but also order the division of competences between the different authorities in this area, lay down sanctions for non-compliance with the obligations arising from the Union regulation and by properly informing the public, for example through the creation of a central register of IGO data, including. by establishing the presence of IGO in the environment, invasive alien species subject to a permit to derogate from bans or remedial actions carried out... It also implements the "polluter pays" principle by regulating the introduction of the IGO into the environment as a result of deliberate or unintentional human interference. We expect that this law, by ordering and transferring specific tasks and competences to individual institutions and bodies, will allow us to fight more effectively and effectively against invasive species. It is also worth pointing out, in the context of the statements by the rapporteur, as well as the concerns expressed in the Sejm, at the meeting of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, also now in the Senate, that the financing of actions to combat IGO's responsibility for local governments is provided by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, as well as by the Regional Environmental and Water Management Funds. It is worth pointing out that the need for urgent work on this project stems from the fact that the adoption of this law will enable us to close the infringement procedure of European Union law, to avoid the European Commission referring complaints to the Court of Justice of the Union and to avoid the risk of imposing penalties on the Republic of Poland. It will also fill in the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Chamber of 2019 from the audit which concerned the prevention of the spread of Caucasian barracks in Poland. As I said, from the point of view of nature's needs, this is a subject that will help us to fight more effectively against species potentially threatening the native nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u215	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of question to the Minister in connection with this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? There's no such thing as... [[Voice from the room: There they are.]] Oh, there it is. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go. [[Mr. Marshal, hope was burning. There's one question, actually two questions.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u216	Minister, one thing concerns these caucasian borschts, which I understand is also sosnowski's borscht. Do you foresee any action to clear the territory of Poland from this borscht? Are we just gonna sit tight and wait for him to grow up with all the waste? And second question. Does this law entail any responsibilities, possibly e.g. the potential payment of penalties for the actions of average Kowalski, let us assume, i.e. a person who has little to do with alien species? Well, unless he brings them back from abroad, but that's a matter of purpose. Does this impose any additional obligations on our citizens?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u217	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u218	I'll start with the first question. In fact, the caucasian barszcze is the topic that is most known to us all, from farmers to self-governments. At the central level, the competence range concerns 3 resorts: the environment department, the agricultural department, but also the health department, as contact with borschts may have a negative impact on human health. In addition, according to the Municipal Government Act, the municipality's own tasks include, inter alia, those of the municipality. protecting the environment and ensuring the safety of citizens. The fight is part of the overall direction of the national intervention of the fund and the voivodship environmental funds. Therefore, in the case of cooperation between these actors and co-financing, we count on this Also thanks to the project run by the Directorate-General for Environment since 2016, which ends next year. First of all, we will know how to move, second of all, we will learn how to fight, and this will give local governments tools and financial support to fight more effectively against the caucasian borschts. Here it is worth pointing out that ordering this responsibility, assigning specific tasks to individual institutions will allow us, I hope, to reduce the occurrence of borscht. Will he let you fight him? This is an extremely difficult plant, in terms of functioning, very easily spreads and reproduces, and let us also admit that the struggle that has been undertaken so far depended on the degree of interest of the local government. I hope that now, together with this law, when there are certain competences, but also the education of society will be stronger and better, first of all we will know the places where the caucasian borscht occurs, and thus the relevant authorities will be able to fight it more effectively. Today, when we don't have a central register yet 'Cause we're bringing him in with this bill. In fact, we do not have complete certainty and knowledge about the scale of the problem we face when it comes to caucasian borsces. So to answer the senator's question directly, I can say: yes, I believe that this law will definitely improve the effectiveness of the fight against Caucasian borschts. As regards responsibilities for the average citizen, these will be obligations for widely distributed species. So every owner of the property, including a private owner, on whose ground the presence of an invasive alien species is found, should fight this species. In the event of failure to do so, a substitute action may be taken by the local authority. However, as it is pointed out, it is a specific range of species and specific situations, such as those affecting human safety. It's also worth pointing out... Because during the debate in the Seym and during the Senate committee meeting, there were some doubts about whether we, with foreign species already present in our country, should undertake this fight. Here it is worth pointing out that we want to avoid the effects that we already know about, because other countries are already struggling with them today, such as the UK, where the grey squirrel has spread strongly. It is also an invasive species, an alien species. It causes damage not only among trees, growing vegetation, but also, excluding native species of squirrels in Poland, can pose a risk to the common squirrel. Or maybe he's walking around. about the fact that along with the deer piss came to Poland a parasite that could threaten the bison. We're also dealing with raccoons, launder raccoons, Caucasian borschts, frogs, marble cancer... There's a whole list of species that we know that their presence has a negative effect on other species of animals, or that they're just moving mushrooms... e.g. The claw frog, which is mainly used in research, is the host of the fungus, which caused the extinction of more than 200 species of amphibians. So one claw frog brought along a fungus that caused the extinction of 200 species, not 200 but 200 species of amphibians. I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, That's what we'd like to avoid. and hence the designation of these dozens of animal species as invasive. This is researched, scientifically confirmed, and we hope that a broad education of society will also help us to eliminate them more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u219	Thank you. [[I have an additional question, Mr. Marshal.]] Senator Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u220	The point is that there is a problem with this borscht about bad action not only for nature, but above all for man. We know what kind of burns he could cause. Perhaps the kind of action we have... Maybe it's not adequate because it's different matter, inanimate matter... There's the removal of etherite from our environment and it could be the removal of borscht. This would be fully financed by the State. Of course, it would require the involvement of municipalities, but not only. You'd just have to do it once and properly. It's a suggestion, of course. And that would be after scientific research.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u221	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u222	If I may... Of course, I absolutely agree with the senator, but it's worth pointing out that so far the voivodship funds... In the letters in which we performed as a resort, still as the Ministry of the Environment, asking to launch special programs dedicated to combating borscht... This was not always an interest among local authorities. There were voivodship funds that had the resources, but there was no response from local governments. I hope that, with the entry into force of this law, we will effectively convince the local government that the resources are, the tools are, only we need to use them for the good of all of us. I absolutely agree with you, especially since, as I say, it is an extremely fast spreading species threatening the Polish native nature and, as the senator said, human health.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u223	Minister, I know we're fighting the caucasian borscht. He's hard, and he's the most dangerous. Is it spreading, or have we limited it? Does this fight have any positive effect? We stopped... Have we reduced the area of this borscht or not? Is it still spreading and covering the new territories of the country? This caucasian borscht is mainly in the south of Poland. I'm from the north, but I'm afraid he'll come north as well. Hence the question for you. I also think that we should have a government program to fight this plant, which is very invasive and very dangerous. I believe that the current way of fighting this borscht is ineffective, and that is why I am asking whether this borscht is still spreading, whether it has been limited or if it has regressed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u224	Where action is being taken, it is possible to limit its further spread, but, as I said, this fight has not been done everywhere, at least to date. It is a species that spreads extremely quickly, because 1 individual can produce from 20,000 to up to 100,000 seeds, which are sown by the wind or transmitted by water. As a result of the fact that seeds retain the ability to germinate for several years, the fight against this species is extremely difficult. The actions undertaken by the Directorate-General for Environment are targeted, inter alia. to verify and identify the most effective methods to combat Caucasian barracks, which will be recommended to local governments with an indication of funding sources, voivodship sources and the national environmental fund. Thanks to the creation of a central register to which everyone will be able or will have to submit a notification, if they observe invasive alien species, this fight will be much more effective. The Act clearly identifies the owners or managers of the site as responsible for taking action in its field. As I say, we have an agreement with the national fund and the voivodship funds that the funds will be used continuously for this purpose so that we can fight effectively.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u225	Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u226	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, please don't take my question seriously, but do I understand correctly... This law applies to invasive species, but usually to those that somehow harm our environment. Yes? If we have other invasive species that displace our native species, we're actually not making this invasion very difficult for them. Let me get this straight. Not exactly... So let me give you an example, like this, I'd say nice. There are 2 kinds of gold I know: Canadian ingot, which is an invasive species, and this is our ordinary ingot, often called mimosis. Does this Canadian really deny ours, or do they exist side by side? How should we behave, or whether to eliminate this invasive one, by cutting it out, for example. for a bouquet and leave ours or not? This is one example, but such examples, especially plant species, I think there are more. Can you expand my knowledge a little bit?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u227	Thank you, Senator. I want to join this question... It's about cancer. European cancer, which is worse than Polish cancer, disowned Polish cancer. Well, this cancer doesn't sting much, it's not like the borscht... Well, that's the situation. Is there any action here that you are predicting, or are we simply leaving it to nature and, as I say, we are also using these European cancers?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u228	I'll start with cancer. We have a species of marble cancer in Poland, which is on the list of invasive alien species. Along with this species, which was once consciously imported, a disease called the plague of the roe. As long as marble cancer is immune to it, our native species of cancer is no longer. So that, on the one hand, this new species denies or leads to the extinction of our native species, and on the other hand, the economic consequences follow. There's no permission here to... We cannot allow the further spread of the case to be discussed here. Marble cancer, because it's to the detriment of nature and economics. As for the senator's question about alien species and invasive alien species, not every alien species is an invasive species. Those who are foreign, but not included in the list of species that threaten the Union or in the list of species that threaten Poland, are not combated by us. They're being watched. Many of them co-exist well with our Polish, native nature that there is no need to react. However, there are species whose elimination is absolutely necessary. I think it's the Canadian stuff that's an example of that. Those species that are on the IGO list are those species that either cross with our native fauna or flora, which cause the native species to disappear, and in this place either crossed or new ones, which consequently leads to the depletion of biodiversity... not only for nature itself, but it can translate e.g. food security. They can also be transferred Probably less with plants, but especially with animals A variety of pathogens that are dangerous. The deer I mentioned earlier brought with him a parasite, which is dangerous for the Polish bison. We are faced with a serious threat, because this deer parasite of piss passes to our native mammals and can also reach the most sensitive and from our point of view the most valuable species, the bison. All these species that are listed are analysed in detail. And only those that have been scientifically verified as invasive and harmful are subject to this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u229	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Ryszard Świlski, Janusz Pęcherz, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Janusz Gromek, Aleksander Szwed and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the case will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Market in Power and some other laws. I would like to remind you, as announced earlier, that, in the absence of proposals of a legislative nature, the vote on this law will be held today after a short break in the proceedings. We will vote on this bill today after the process has been completed. The text of the Act is contained in print No 439 and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 439 A and 439 B. I now ask the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present on behalf of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs a report from the committee. The Commission met on 14 July. In principle, legislative amendments of the number 9 were accepted at the committee meeting. As regards these amendments, everyone agreed because they improved the entire bill, the Minister also expressed his approval. The whole committee voted in favour of the bill, too. The main objective of the Act is to ensure the application of Regulation 2019/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on the internal market in electricity by making an appropriate amendment to the Act of 8 December 2017 on the power market. In addition, the Act introduces in the Power Market Act: the possibility of converting an entity with a power contract that does not meet the emission limit of 550 g CO2/kWh into a unit that meets that limit; the possibility of changing the available capacity of the new generation market unit if the capacity of such an entity after its implementation will slightly deviate from the capacity that was assumed at the planning stage; the reduction of the capacity charge for units with a flat consumption profile. The Act also provides that contracts subject to secondary trading of a power obligation or relocation of the amount of performance of a power obligation referred to in Article 1 shall also be subject to contracts. 48 (1) (a) 1 of the Power Market Act, the provisions of the Public Procurement Law do not apply. In addition, the Act amends: the Act of 10 April 1997 - Energy Law, that is, in Article. 2; the Law of 26 October 2000 on Freight Exchanges; the Law of 29 July 2005 on Trading in Financial Instruments; the Law of 29 June 2007 on the rules for covering costs arising from the early termination of long-term contracts for the sale of power and electricity; the Law of 20 May 2021 amending the Energy Law and certain other laws. The amendment of the Energy Law consists in the addition in Article. Paragraph 7 of that law. 8e1 taking into account both the existing legal status and the changes made. Legislative work was just as I said it would be. On 14 July, this law, together with the amendments, was accepted by the entire Climate Committee. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u231	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute of questioning to senators... [[Voice: The second rapporteur has not yet presented a report.]] He hasn't reported yet? [[Voice from the Chamber: There is another rapporteur.]] Oh, I'm so sorry. Wait a minute. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Report from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act on the amendment of the power market law and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 24 June 2021. Following a review of the Act at its meeting on 20 July 2021, the committee asks the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution, i.e. to adopt the Act of 9 amendments introduced during the committee's deliberations. The amendments received a majority in the committee, there were no votes against. Please accept the bill with these amendments. A few words about this bill. The observed situation on the national and European electricity markets, the lack of an incentive effect to build new capacities with controlled electricity production and the announcement of the withdrawal of significant quantities of capacity, as a result of the lack of cost-effectiveness of adapting them to the BAT conclusions, resulted in the decision to introduce the power market in Poland, i.e. the transition from the single-stock market, i.e. only energy, to the two-stock market, i.e. energy and power. The result of intensive work was the Act on the power market adopted by the Polish Parliament on 8 December 2017. Today, it must be assessed that the power market has allowed the modernisation of a significant part of the generation assets needed for the proper balancing of power in the national energy system and has allowed the construction of new blocks and the positive economic results of the projects to be built. In addition, the power market activates new market participants such as DSR service providers or investors who plan to build energy storage facilities. In 2016 and 2017, i.e. during the period when the power market was constructed and conducted in the European Commission, the analysis of capacity adequacy at that time indicated that since 2021 cyclical problems with electricity generation adequacy, similar to those of August 2015 could occur in Poland. At present, once the power market has been put in place, there is no significant threat to the sustainability of the electricity system in the period 2021 to 2025. Notwithstanding the above, the continuation of the capacity market in the formula developed is not possible and it is necessary to align national provisions with the provisions of Regulation 2019/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019. Senator Lamczyk briefly presented what was contained in the regulation of the European Parliament. So much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u233	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to the senates of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to represent the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u234	Ladies and gentlemen! So here's the thing: both of you gentlemen of the rapporteur. Both Senator Lamczyk and Senator Piecha They've actually presented the proposed... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...a draft resolution. Therefore, all the elements which concern this resolution have been covered by their statements. So I don't see the need to supplement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u235	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This question is actually to understand 2 concepts and what they differ. How is the energy market different from the power market? That's the first question. And second question: does this law affect the average Polish energy consumer?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u237	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u238	Good. Senator, in answer to the second question, first of all I would like to inform you that yes, it will ultimately affect the average user of electricity. And that growth that's expected. The increase in charges, the increase in price It is at the level of 10 PLN per year. It is similar for small and medium-sized enterprises This is also within the limit of 10 PLN. But it has a significant impact on the energy-intensive industry and industry, because this reduction will amount to up to PLN 2 million for those companies that consume more than 100 GW per year. So on the one hand this is a small increase in electricity prices for individual customers and, on the other hand, for industry, this is a very beneficial solution. This solution is consulted with the European Commission and does not require notification of it as to whether it complies with the EU Regulation. As far as the energy market is concerned, the energy market provides an opportunity to buy energy and the power market is to ensure that this energy is available when needed and not only when the sun is shining or the wind is blowing. So that's the difference.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u239	Thank you very much, Minister. Is there any other senators who would like to ask you a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm so glad this bill finally got here. He is another classic example, which can be said to be better late than at all, or better late than too late, because especially energy-intensive entrepreneurs were promised that this draft law would enter into force no later than 1 January this year. These entrepreneurs operate on the global market. For them, entrepreneurs from other countries who have access to electricity significantly cheaper than in Poland are competing. It is worth knowing that Polish entrepreneurs pay for electricity today one of the highest prices in the European Union and are therefore much less competitive. The goods they make, by all means, are more expensive. Therefore, the solution designed in some part will support them. And that's why the bill is worth supporting. It is worth knowing that this applies to more than 1,000 companies in this energy-intensive part and that this applies to several million Poles employed in these companies. Of course, I'm aware. That's what the Minister just said. That it's not like we're gonna help them and that something's for nothing. In this case, however, all Poles in some part will bear these costs. And I say this with great sadness, because this is the result of omissions or bad decisions related to the energy market in general, entirely in Poland. About the already famous and erroneous decisions connected with the power plant in Ostrołęka and the famous 2 concrete towers, now undressed, and about billions of zlotys invested there... This is one example. About wrong decisions related to Turov, about accidents in Bełchatów or about wrong decisions related to the blockade of the development of renewable energy sources The famous 10H related to windmills... These are further examples that led to the fact that today Poland and Polish entrepreneurs have to pay such a high price. I also listen sometimes... Not even sometimes, because I listen carefully enough to what the government has to propose in the part concerning the future related to the energy market, with electricity in Poland. And I look at it with sadness because all these plans are set aside in time. The offshore wind farms, wind farms are expected to be built around 2030. Nuclear power block The government writes that in 2033 and experts say that there are no real chances of doing so. But the paper is patient, it will take everything. Only the consequence of such wrong decisions and omissions falls unfortunately on entrepreneurs and unfortunately falls on Poles. And unfortunately, these things, these processes and energy problems can't be transferred into some far-off future. Because we already have consequences related to the high price of energy, and sooner than we think, we will be standing in Poland facing serious problems concerning the shutting down of energy blocks, those old ones connected with brown coal or hard coal, which simply lived to their technical death. And faster than we think, we will be facing a serious problem of further increases in energy prices, because greenhouse gas emission allowances are constantly, systematically and significantly increasing. So, Minister, this bill is a patch for a serious wound, it doesn't solve the problem. We will probably adopt the bill with amendments quite unanimously in the Senate, but if the government does not immediately submit serious energy solutions, in the coming months, in this term of office, we will see what serious problems we have to face due to the omissions of the current government team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u241	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Świlski, Bladder, Gromko and Swede made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held today after a short break in the proceedings. I'm declaring a recess until 8:25 p.m. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 14 to 20 minutes 24]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have to extend my break by 10 minutes because there are some technical problems with the connection of one of the senators. If we can get this done sooner, I'm gonna cut this break short. So I'm prolonging the recess until 8:45 p.m. [[Voice from the room: Not until 8:45.]] [[Room voice: 20.35.]] Excuse me, 20.35. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 25 to 20 minutes 35]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u242	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but there's been some kind of malfunction in the connection between the remote senators. I'm gonna have to extend my break for another ten minutes... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I suggest we start with the next point, and then... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like some footage, please. Thank you very much. The point is not particularly controversial, it concerns a law on special solutions related to the organisation of the 11th session of the World Urban Forum in Katowice in 2022. The text of the Act is contained in print No 441, and the report of the Commission In print No 441 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to present a report to the committee... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and your senators, please concentrate, especially Senator Kleina. et consoltes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Law on Special Solutions related to the organization of the 11th session of the World Urban Forum in Katowice in 2022 did not really arouse any emotions. It seems well prepared and was adopted by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration unanimously, with a recommendation to the High House to adopt it without amendment. I'll give you a brief description of what's going on. The World Urban Forum is organized, according to its name, for the eleventh time, for the first time in this part of the world, i.e. in Central and Eastern Europe. This is a big event so that it will attract a lot of significant visitors from all over the world. It has great promotional qualities. Due to its rank and the size of the organisation involved, special regulations are required. This is a regulation based on a regulation related to a similar event 3 years ago, i.e. COP24, which also took place in Katowice. The Act provides for the establishment of a team to coordinate the organisation and preparation of the event, defining the division of responsibilities and tasks of the various institutions and organisations that will cooperate in the preparation, method of financing, the way in which public procurement is carried out. This law was consulted with the local government of Katowice at both the preliminary and final stages. I just regretted that she had not been consulted with the Upper Silesia-Załęgian Metropolis, which could also contribute to this issue and will probably do so. I ask the High Senate to accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u244	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't hear anybody. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. I don't know if she's... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Małgorzata Jarosińska-Jedynik: I am here.]] Oh, there's the minister. Government officials usually sit there. I have a question: does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present a position? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Małgorzata Jarosińska-Jedynik: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the rapporteur said most of the things about the scope of the proposed law on the 11th session of the World Urban Forum. I'd just like to make a few points. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it is it is a very important law for the organisation of the entire forum, which will be in Katowice next year, on June 26, 2022. This is the first such forum in Central and Eastern Europe. They were earlier in Italy and Spain, but there was not yet such a forum in Central and Eastern Europe. It is a huge prestige for Poland, an opportunity to show how urban policy is conducted, because it is the forum that focuses on urban policy and urban life, how to improve our cities so that we can live better. And that is also the theme of the 11th session of the World Urban Forum: we are changing our cities for a better future. This forum brings together a number of representatives of different levels, ranging from the highest, presidents, prime ministers, through experts involved in the development of urban policy. We expect that the forum in Katowice can gather up to 25 000 people from all over the world from various levels of power. That's why it's a specialty proposal. Given the experience of COP24, which also took place in Katowice, and the speciality prepared for this event, which has greatly facilitated the process of organizing the whole forum, we are also going out with such a specialty, asking for its adoption so that we can start this whole tendering procedure, the organisation of tenders, as well as the implementation of the whole forum, which is already next year. And this will be, in addition to the huge prestige for Poland, for the city of Katowice, for the whole Silesian region, also support for this industry, which in the era of the COVID pandemic was the most affected, i.e. the hotel and gastronomy industry, catering and tourism. We will host 25 thousand people in Poland. This is in addition to the city of Katowice also Małopolskie voivodship, Kraków, where some people will probably sleep over, so these benefits will be much wider. And above all, we show on the international stage our achievements, what we managed to achieve as part of the transformation, but we also promote Poland as a partner for international talks, for subsequent such meetings, for further such forums. We are also working closely with the European Commission to promote this event and the activities that will remain behind the forum, i.e. the guidelines for urban policy making, which will best respond to the needs of the inhabitants, so that cities can live better. In addition, issues related to the government programme will be addressed: Accessibility Plus, i.e. facilitations for people with disabilities, older people. We want this forum to be the basis for establishing certain standards in removing architectural barriers, but not just those barriers. With all this in mind, I ask the High House to adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u246	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I'm telling you no one signed up for this. For the record, Senators Halina Bieda, Mariusz Gromko, Aleksander Szwed and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Since communication problems have been resolved, we are back to dealing with item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Power Market Act and some other laws. The Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they propose amendments to the Act. These are senate prints No 439 A and No 439 B. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We are voting on the amendments tabled. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 seeks consistency in matters governed by the proposed provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, 86 votes for, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 5]] Amendment 2 seeks to clarify the proposed provision in terms of price regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 3 and Amendment 5 are editorial. We vote on them together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 4 seeks consistency in the wording of the various parts of the proposed provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 6 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 7 seeks to ensure compliance of the proposed provision with the scope of the statutory authorisation of the Article. 51 of the amended bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 8 seeks to clarify the amended provision for the identification of cases which, in accordance with the intention of the projectors, are to be subject to a penalty of financial penalty. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Is Senator Rusiecki voting? Thank you very much. Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 9 seeks to ensure consistency of the proposed provision with the other provisions of the amended law in the way in which the demand reduction capacity test is applied. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Market in Power and some other laws. And I'll inform you that we'll be handing her over to the Sejm tonight. Mr and Mrs Senators, before the adjournment, I would like to remind you that tomorrow we will begin our deliberations by considering item 19 - information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2020. We will then consider point eight: the Act amending the Act on the Agency for Medical Research and some other laws; and point twelve: the Act amending the Act Tomorrow we will also consider a point concerning the consent to the appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. The vote will take place immediately after consideration of this item. This point will begin at 6:00 p.m. Now I'm asking for messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u247	The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications for the Law amending the Social Security System and certain other laws, print No 431, will take place tomorrow at 8.30 in room No 176. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of applications submitted at the twenty-seventh Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and the Act on Banking Law, Senate Printing No 433, will take place tomorrow at 8.30 in room 182. The joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee on the consideration of the amendments tabled at the twenty-seventh Senate meeting to the Act amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws will also be held tomorrow at 8.45 p.m. in the Senate plenary room.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-21-senat-27-1.u248	Thank you very much. I'd like to thank the senators for their excellent timing, and we'll be done eight minutes before the planned 9:00 p.m. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 52]]
