ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u1	I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. Please, ladies and gentlemen, prepare for the session. I would remind you that senators Rafał Ambrozik and Mariusz Gromko, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Senator Jerzy Wcisła were appointed for the meeting. Senator Jerzy Wcisła, and Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, in room 217, conducts a list of speakers in the sitting room. I ask the senators of the Secretaries to take the designated seats. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting only to establish a list of senators currently taking part in the meeting. Please activate the machinery and surrender any voice. Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the deliberations. [[Voting No 79]] This number has traditionally changed a bit, but, anyway, we have a quorum and we can proceed. High Izbo, several decisions were made at today's meeting of the convention, namely. That today's session will close our 24th session. On 10 June, an additional Senate meeting will begin at 12.00 p.m., because one of the laws concerning the lowest health salaries has the status of an urgent act and we have until 11 June to express an opinion on this matter. So that an additional meeting will be held at 12 noon on June 10th. Next scheduled date, i.e. On June 16, 18th, it remains in force. For the record, we already have about 17 points to consider, and I'm sure there'll be more. I would also like to appeal to the senators on a matter that I will make briefly. Namely, in the face of devastating events in Belarus, in the face of state terrorism against the Polish aircraft, against the prison of opponents, many of whom have such or other Polish roots, a joint initiative appeared at the meeting of the convention, in order, first, to consider the resolution of the Senate, as a matter of urgency, and secondly, to consider as senators the virtual symbolic patronage of the prisoners. And we can get such lists of those who are repressed. In order to help their families and support, already individually, as senators of all clubs. That would be our contribution to helping the Belarusians fight for freedom and democracy. This, of course, is such an idea that the Senate will formally not go through. Nevertheless, with such an appeal, I would like to ask you to consider it seriously. If necessary, such lists of persons in one way or another repressed or imprisoned can be delivered. And we will try to continue this process. I think this is our moral commitment to those who are fighting for what we fought for in Poland decades ago. And we had different people helping us, too. That's all out of order. On the agenda, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Act amending the Foreign Service Act and considering it as item twenty-six of the agenda. It is also an urgent act which requires consideration before 4 June of this year. Therefore, in order not to call you again, I propose that we consider this point today. We have representatives of the Ministry with us. We're prepared for this. In addition, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Law on the ratification of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom and considering it as item twenty-seven of the agenda. Let me remind you that points one to twenty-five have already been considered. I also propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: a second reading of the draft opinion on the principles for the use of the European Union's Instrument for Reconstruction and Reinforcing Resistance and consider it as item twenty-eighth of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. I would also like to inform you that the Convention has decided that, following the examination of paragraph 27 concerning the ratification of the Council Decision of 14 December 2020 on the Union's own resources system, an interruption will be announced and a vote will take place after the interruption. The remaining votes will be held at the end of today's session. I already told you that the Seniors' Convention gave an opinion on a change in the timetable for the appointment of an additional Senate meeting on 10 June. The beginning will be unusual at 12:00, not, as usual, at 11:00. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the law amending the Foreign Service Act. The text of this law is contained in print No 404 and the committee's report In print No 404 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the Law on the revision of the Foreign Service Act adopted by the Sejm on 20 May 2021. The Act was addressed to the committee on 21 May 2021 by the Marshal of the Senate. Following its meeting on 26 May 2021, the committee asks the Senate to adopt a draft resolution in which the following amendment is made: Article. 1 points (1) to (11), point (12) (a) shall be deleted. b and points 13 and 27. In view of this amendment, on behalf of the committee, I would like to present the arguments that have been followed. I remind the honourable House that the law amending the Foreign Service Act was passed on 21 January 2021. The Senate held here a debate and all criticisms of this law have already been forwarded and I will not repeat myself. However, this amendment indicates that the comments made during the debate on this law on urgency, failure to work, infringement of the rules of careful legislation, infringement of the procedure in committees are valid, because the act enters into force on 16 June, and now we have urgent changes. And, in general, the most important issue that the High House needs to be brought to the attention of is that this mechanism for the termination of the employment relationship, which is in the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 Act was applied, is extended to all foreign service associates. And here are all the comments that the committee presented on this solution, which we presented to the High Senate earlier. First of all, the point remains that the automatic termination mechanism for workers aged 65 is contrary to Article. 2 Council Directive 2000/78/EC, 2000 Directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment. It should be noted that the different treatment of foreign service workers who are 65 years of age is not justified in terms of the conditions laid down in that Directive. The objective objective, reasonable and regulatory objective of this distinction is not indicated here, and the measure taken by the legislator is neither appropriate nor necessary. It should also be pointed out that the case law of the Supreme Court, which, in the composition of 7 judges in 2009, presented a uniform position in the light of which the attainment of retirement age and the acquisition of pension rights cannot constitute an exclusive reason justifying the termination of the employment contract by the employer, as this constitutes direct discrimination on grounds of age. There are other Supreme Court judgments that confirm this. I can't fail to mention one more thing. Well, on 26 May, the opinion on this law was presented by the Works Commission of the NSSZ.Solidarity of the Workers of the Foreign Service of the Republic of Poland. I'm going to quote a few sentences from that opinion here. In its decision of 27 January, the Bureau of the Works Commission of the NSZZ.Solidarity indicated that the provisions of the Act were incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, that the laws in force in Poland were incompatible with other laws, including the Labour Code and the Trade Union Act, as well as the internal inconsistencies of the provisions of the Act and their dysfunction. Of the dozens of reservations to the Act which was presented by the Works Committee at the time, only one issue was taken into account concerning the amendment of the twelfth in Article. 1 amending act supplementing Article. 51 Foreign Service Act. It's about the absence of vacation leave. And this change was accepted by the committee. Other changes have been removed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u3	Thank you very much, Marshal. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. The Secretary of State, Mr Piotr Wawrzyk, is acting on his behalf. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This law has been examined, among others. At the senate committee meeting yesterday. Thank you very much, Marshal, for presenting the opinion. With such great expression this opinion was presented, a number of allegations were made here. However, the point is that they do not refer to the law that we are investigating today. The issue that you were most exposed to the marshal, the 65-year-old question, is not covered by the amendment we are discussing today. These are issues which are included in the original law and are therefore not the subject of today's Senate deliberations. I would also like to point out that the amendment proposed by you by the Marshal, the deletion of the remaining changes is anti-working in many respects. I'm surprised the leftist rep presents an anti-worker amendment. And in order not to be literal, I'm going to say yes. First of all, you are proposing to delete the provisions extending the definition of family. If this amendment is adopted, some of the children of diplomats will be excluded from the concept of family, there will be 2 categories of children: those who are covered by the privileges conferred on the families of diplomats, and, as you have proposed, those who will not be covered by these privileges. Secondly, you have proposed in this amendment to delete the provisions on the fact that during the period of leave a foreign allowance will be granted, so you want to reduce the salaries of professional diplomats. Thirdly, you propose to take away the right to leave 5 days before the end of your stay and after the end of your stay in the institution. These are the most expressive, most vivid examples of the provisions which are proposed to be deleted in the amendments. There's a few more. In fact, all these changes that we have introduced are pro-workers-like and are all about restoring a certain balance and fairness within different categories of workers, so we extend, for example, the privileges of foreign service to other categories of workers. On behalf of the government, I would like to take a negative view of this amendment as an anti-worker amendment. Yesterday, after the committee meeting, we spoke with the head of the union's work committee, whose opinion was referred to by the senator, and he admitted that the particular elements I was talking about are pro-working. Besides, in this opinion, which was referred to by your marshal, these changes were mentioned as those that go in the right direction, but they were omitted in your speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u5	Thank you very much. At present, senators can report from a place lasting no more than a minute. Mr. Minister, please, because I see that there are questions for the government representative related to this item on the agenda. I see you have a question for Marshal Moravian Staneck. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u6	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, I'm just ad vocem. Since you have called me and my name on several occasions, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have confused the elements of the debate, because this was the committee report and the decision that was made, this is the decision of the whole Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, and not my decision as the representative of the left. When there is a debate and I will do it, then it will eventually be possible to refer to me ad personam. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u7	Well, that's a note, not a question. Does anyone else want to ask the Minister a question? Mr. Senator... Oh, I'm sorry, I can't see... Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the presentation of the report is concerned, this is another matter. I would like the Minister to explain to you that if, in the original text of this change we are considering, the children of the diplomat's spouse are added as members of the family, and your marshal, representing, as I understand it, a group of senators, wants to cut it out, it means that those who are in some way protected will simply be less. In this case, the children of a diplomat's spouse cannot be considered family members, as you propose in the Act. It's an example of what you were talking about earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I must remind you of two things. Firstly, your marshal acted as rapporteur for the committee and was obliged to report honestly what was at the committee meeting, as she had already said. And secondly, I would remind you that there is now a questioning session for the Minister, and I would ask you very much to focus on that. Whoever wants to join the debate will be able to do so when we open the discussion in a moment. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u10	Thank you very much. I have a specific question for the Minister. What's it like with this sixty-five-year-old? Or, for example, A diplomat who is 64 years old is already de facto excluded from being able to choose him for, let's call it, a term in the institution, because in the course of his mission he will be 65 years old? Doesn't this automatically mean that a group of people practically at the age of 62 would be excluded from taking up posts, from appointments in foreign offices, because during the anticipated customary term of office... Of course, it can always be shortened, but it is a pragmatism of the functioning of foreign service. Are we not dealing with the situation here that this exclusion due to age would have been earlier? And my second question. When this law comes into force, will the people who are now fulfilling their mission and ending the sixty-fifth year have the opportunity to complete this mission in a cycle that is usually there, or will there be cancellations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u11	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The situation is as follows: people who will, in quotes, be nearing the age of 65 will be informed by the Personal Affairs Office about this fact and will be informed that if they feel up to it and want to continue to carry out their duties, I stress: whether at the institution or at headquarters They will then be asked to submit an application to the Head of Foreign Service for an extension of their professional capacity and will receive such consent. So from this point of view, it doesn't matter if anyone's at the facility or not. If anybody's gonna... We've got cases where they're at a person's facility. Especially now, in not the best health condition, because they have e.g. disease complications. And it will depend on their individual assessment whether they are able to continue with these duties or not. If they consider it so, then of course such an extension of the ability to perform their duties will be possible to get.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u13	Thank you very much. I see that in the meantime, Senator Zdrojewska came forward, and then the senator came forward. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u14	Thank you very much. I would like to ask, Minister, if such persons could be, so to speak, used, for example. Professor Władysław Bartoszewski was used in diplomacy. Will such ageable people be able to be employed because of their competence or not, because they will exceed a certain age?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u15	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u16	Of course, I will answer that question, but I would like to point out that this question, like the senator's question, does not concern the matter that we are discussing today, because these issues are regulated in the so-called. the primary law, and today, this law does not concern this problem. But to answer the question, I will say, yes, there is a possibility, the more that various niche skills are needed in different locations in different situations. Therefore, I do not think that such people can and must be disposed of.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski, again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u18	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask the Minister. I take it this consent is automatic, right? If a servant... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen, please...]] If a diplomat makes one of these... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, gentlemen, but it's hard to focus. [[I'm gonna ask you to transfer the calls to the cocksuckers.]] I'm asking the question again. I mean this proposal that the Minister mentioned, the one in which, I understand, there is this content: because I feel up to it, I ask you to be able to complete the mission or... Well, there's gonna be a form. Is the decision here automatic, i.e. does the head of foreign service have to take this request into account from the machine, or is it, so to speak, discretionary? That's my first question. And the other. Well, there may be a situation that someone is particularly valuable to foreign service, has a lot of experience After all, we have many such diplomats during their term of office reaching retirement age and would like to benefit from pension benefits, i.e. they apply for a pension. Whether he could continue to work, doing the same job, or then... Well, it's well known that in the light of other provisions, there's a termination of the employment contract, but whether or not it's a possibility. Because it could also be important for reasons, well, I would say, life-material for many diplomats. Thank you... I don't know if my question is understandable... [[Voice from the room: I'm sure.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u19	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, in answer to the first question... what I've said in these few words is, of course, a projection of what we're working on right now. At the moment, it is difficult for me to define precisely how this is going to be formulated, hence I would not want to answer precisely, because it is so-called. future uncertainty, which is why it is difficult to judge what it will look like at the moment. As far as the second question is concerned, it is clear that the same foreign service, possibly by the decision of its boss, will pursue the same person.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u21	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jazłowiecka signed up for the floor. From room 217. You're welcome... [[Voice from the room: Remotely, remotely.]] So, remotely or from room 217? [[Voice from the room: Remotely.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u22	Remotely. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. It's just a little bit remote, I'm sorry. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Which is the one time we have to debate the draft changes that are the consequence of the government's rule: just faster? This time we are dealing with a number of amendments. Among them were among others. including: ordering the appointment of foreign servants; harmonising the consequences of the age of sixty-five; adopting the definition of a family member... [[If you could speak a little louder, because we can't hear very well...]] Good. ...Accepting the definition of a family member; defining the rules of appeal; establishing that a representative of the Republic of Poland to the European Union will be consulted by the relevant Sejm Committee; distinguishing new stages of the diplomatic/consulate application; clarifying the rules of rest leave; specifying transitional provisions; resigning from the title ambassador. There are really many of these amendments, given that the amendment to which they relate has not yet entered into force. It is not possible to refer to all the elements that raise doubts, but it can be assumed that some of the proposed provisions can undoubtedly promote the appointment of incompetent persons to serve in foreign service. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to the desired changes, such as the definition of a family member or the reduction of bad practices consisting of deliberate abandonment of leave, we are unfortunately faced with proposals of legislation which question the entire project. I'm worried, for example. determining the duration of transitional provisions in the field of labour law by 31 March 2023 What does this date mean? Is it an option to terminate existing agreements just before the parliamentary elections so that some politicians can retire to warm countries as newly appointed foreign service? There are also doubts about the consequences of the age of sixty - five. As has already been said many times before, this provision has been introduced artificially to speed up rotation among foreign servants. The previous amendment was written in such a hurry that, against the will of the rulers, it did not include a significant group of foreign servants. Now, too, these people will be able to pessimisticly look at their future, and the legislative authorities again have their hands full because of their hasty amendments. Nor was the proposal of the trade unions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs accepted. This shows how disrespectful these workers are. It is because trade unions have not accepted the request to give up a record which mandatoryly eliminates the employment relationship, as I mentioned just a moment ago, the employment relationship with diplomats who are 65 years old, which prohibits professional diplomats from working in trade unions. This is an unjustified restriction of civil and trade union rights and is contrary to the Basic Law and the Trade Union Act and the International Conventions to which Poland or the Republic is party. Discriminating changes concerning workers with diplomatic degrees who, after the new changes have entered into force, will have no legal basis for maintaining their current diplomatic degree, and thus will be deprived of their rights properly acquired... It's completely incomprehensible to me. Once again I appeal to the rulers: for the sake of Polish law it is necessary to carefully prepare regulations, widely discussed and twice thought out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u23	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held today at the end of this meeting. Today, I hope. Does the government representative want to address the issues raised in the discussion or in the questions or not? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom. The text of the Act is contained in print No 391 and the committee's report in print No 391 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Bogdan Klich, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union of the Senate would like to recommend to the High House that the ratification law be adopted together with the attached preamble. The committee meeting was an important meeting. It appears that both the substantive arguments and the formal arguments concerning the ratification act were presented during this meeting. Most importantly, in the last vote, the committee unanimously voted in favour of the ratification act with the attached preamble. This is an important sign, this is an important signal sent to the public as part of the first reading of the Parliament's submission, a signal that, above the divisions, an agreement can be reached on the ratification of the Senate, following the addition of the preamble to it. Two votes took place earlier. In the first vote, we voted on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and Senator Bierecki submitted this proposal. This proposal has not received an adequate majority, and Senator Bierecki has therefore announced that there will be a minority request and has been authorised to represent minorities in this matter. The second vote, which paved the way for the final unanimity of the two committees, was the vote on the proposed preamble, in which the majority of the committee voted in favour of adding the preamble to the ratification treaty. The ratio of votes was as follows: 11 votes in favour, 5 against, no abstentions. I would like to start by giving you the course of the committee meeting, because it had its dynamics and had its drama. I think this was due to the proposal by the Civic Coalition and the PSL in the Senate of the preamble. So there's no doubt about what the text is... We're talking about a text that says... I'll quote it. In the 18th year of the Republic of Poland's membership in the European Union, the whole Community faced a huge challenge, which is the socio-economic crisis. The only way out of this crisis is by establishing European solidarity and by establishing a European Fund for Reconstruction. For the sake of the future and well-being of our Homeland, the authorities of the Republic of Poland declare that the funds from the Fund for Reconstruction will serve to modernise the state, develop and innovate the economy, improve health protection, strengthen the education system, protect the environment and climate. The authorities of the Republic of Poland undertake that the funds from this Fund will be spent on the basis of the principles of justice, transparency and the rule of law, guaranteeing equal treatment of entities interested in the implementation of projects. They will take into account the needs of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Poland, all local communities, local governments, entrepreneurs and workers, farmers and NGOs. To this end, a Monitoring Committee will be set up to supervise the implementation of the projects and the spending of funds under the National Plan for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity. The Committee will be composed of representatives of the Council of Ministers, the Sejm and the Senate and representatives of local government organisations, employers' organisations, trade unions and non-governmental organisations designated by these entities under a separate law. In the view that compliance with these principles will be an unshakable basis for the implementation of the National Plan for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity, the following is stated. This preamble, which I presented on behalf of I'm gonna point that out again. The part of the democratic coalition in the Senate is based on legal expertise, on the formal side, of course, prepared by a group of constitutionalists appointed by your marshal. This team provided such legal expertise in good time. In my expertise... Allow me to quote only the conclusions, because it is difficult to present the whole. The important thing is that these prominent constitutionalists in the conclusions say that it is possible to supplement the content of the Preamble Act referring to the intentions and values of the contracting parties. They see the possibility that other matters, which are the result of the senators' will, should be expressed in a separate resolution. The draft of such a resolution in the form of an opinion was submitted to the Marshal's staff and will be examined in the next item of our deliberations. Thus, as you have heard and had the opportunity to read about this at the committee meeting, the preamble meets the legal framework outlined in the expert opinion. The preamble is an expression of our intentions. It is an expression of what the authorities of the Republic of Poland should expect regardless of who they are selected and what party sign they have. It is also an expression of these values, which have been repeated repeatedly in Poland and have certainly become one of the pillars of our accession and later our presence in the European Union. After all, how else do we understand values such as fairness in the allocation of funds, such as the transparency of the process of identifying and implementing individual projects, or finally the rule of law and guaranteeing equal access for stakeholders, and not distinguishing anyone else? These are basic issues, on these values is based on every democratic community. And it's hard to imagine anyone resisting these values. And is it possible to oppose the fact that these measures are intended to modernise the state, that they are to innovate the economy, that they are to improve the health system, so painfully experienced by the pandemic, or finally to strengthen the education system and to ensure that the environment in Poland is protected and that the climate improves? So I'm going to highlight this preamble here once. And what I was talking about at the committee meeting is an expression of value and intention. This preamble is also an expression of the belief that all those who represent the beneficiaries of this great programme, this great fund calculated on about EUR 260 billion for Poland in the coming years, should have equal access to these funds. That is why they should be represented in the body that will monitor the implementation of this programme. We're talking about self-government. We are talking about entrepreneurs, trade unions, NGOs, environmental movements, as well as various types of professional self-government, such as: the medical authority. And it's not a coincidence that we've given so much attention to this particular issue before. I also talked about this at the committee meeting, so I would like to remind you in my report And that we paid so much attention to listening to the opinions of these communities, both in the case of the first draft government on KPO, of the 26th February and the second, modified, of 30 April. But now is not the time to talk about this or to present the results of these hearings, because we are only talking about the fact that the Monitoring Committee should oversee the implementation of the programme and that the representatives of the previously mentioned environments should come from a choice rather than from nominations. They should be chosen by free decision of these environments, not at the discretion of some, even the best minister, who will point to one and not the other, although the latter may have a better reputation in his environment. And this was the justification for the submission of this preamble, so that in the Senate we could with a calm conscience ratify the law in the name that it gives Poles the chance to benefit from the benefit of establishing the European Union's Fund for Reconstruction. Poles have the right to benefit from these measures. Poles have the right to ensure that these funds are spent in a fair manner. And therefore the ratification bill should be supported in the Senate and should also be supported by the preamble. The ratification law gives Poles the chance to use this fund, and this money is simply due to Poles, while the preamble gives the opportunity to take a stand on the value side and clearly states that the Senate believes that the funds of this fund should be used in a clear, transparent, fair and reliable way, and to determine who should supervise this programme. If you don't mind, I will also present some of the opinions that have been expressed during this debate. Well, Senator Bierecki proposed not to touch anything in the ratification bill, he proposed to reconsider the proposal to attach the preamble to this law, and he encouraged me to quote Senator Kleina considered that, in particular, it was possible to supplement the content of this law which agreed to ratify by supplementing it with the preamble, but agreed with the arguments of our experts that nothing should be changed or in the article. 1 and neither Article 4 (1) shall apply. 2 of this bill. This was, moreover, the opinion of our Legislative Office, which we have stated at the outset, and which we quote, "I cannot rule out the possibility of introducing an amendment, which is precisely an addition to the preamble, and it must be borne in mind that the content of this preamble is not of a normative nature, it should contain some interpretations, but should not contain certain substantive content. Senator Kwiatkowski was pleased that the opinion of these professors of legal sciences for the part of the room during the joint session of the panel In most professors, there's one doctor habilitation It's so important. He also hoped that, for the rest of the room, whether this amendment is formally admissible, a doctor of legal sciences, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, who supported a similar preamble during the vote in the Sejm, would certainly be the authority. Senator Kwiatkowski also spoke about the fact that he would be opposed to amendments made to specific editorial units, i.e. to art. 1 or Art. 2 of this bill. Mr. Vice-Marshal Pęk critically referred to the proposal to join the preamble to this law and said that this discussion in substance did not bring anything into the case, because in legal terms, according to Mr. Marshal Pęka, it is clear that nothing should be included in the articles of the ratification act. He also considered that the issues described in the preamble were not controversial, that ratification should be accepted without amendments, and that is the only option that can be considered, and can be either ratification or against it, there is no third way I quote your marshal here. . tertium non datur. Mr. Marshal also thought there was no maneuvering in this case. I understand that this was about not supplementing this legislation with any other content. He also asked not to go back to what was going on at the various stages of his work in the Sejm, and asked what would happen if this bill with the preamble came out of Poland as the only such, that is to say, the only ratification act of the 27 Member States of the European Union will contain such a preamble. I hope I understood your marshal's intentions correctly. So he asked: what will then be the whole ratification process of this instrument in the European Union, in all the Member States of the European Union? Mr. Marshal Pęk also requested to speed up the ratification process in the Senate. Mr Kaminski argued with this statement by Marshal Pęka, recognising that 10 days between the start of work and the completion of the ratification act in the Senate did not make any special difference, and that the government was responsible for delaying this ratification due to differences of opinion and division in the United Right. Marshal Kaminski also considered that in no other country from 20 countries of the European Union, which had ratified the reconstruction instrument until that day, there was no such situation as in Poland that there would be such a crack in the governing camp. Mr Kaminski also felt that it was in the Polish national interest that ratification should be carried out and that a preamble was needed for this. He also talked about the relationship between the rule of law, respect for the law in Poland and money derived from this fund. As one of the next speakers, Marshal Borusewicz considered that since in the Seym Marshal Witek allowed the vote on the amendments, and therefore on the proposal for a recital and on the amendments to the various articles, there is no reason to prevent such a possibility in the Senate. And if the amendments in the Sejm were impossible to vote on, then you should not have the Marshal of the Sejm put to the vote at all. And yet they were. Therefore, the question is: why was this possible in the Seym and not in the Senate? Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka argued that the work in the Senate was delayed, recognising that the European Commission had reservations at that time about the National Plan for Reconstruction presented by the government and that the government had 2 months to amend the NPOs accordingly in the dialogue with the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, please forgive me for not quoting all the speakers, but those who represent the political environments in our House. There were still a lot of important and interesting voices. We finally had a conclusion. I will repeat once again that in the recent votes, the majority first considered that a preamble should be introduced to the ratification act, and then everyone considered that the ratification act should be adopted together with the preamble introduced. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. Now it's going to be a minority report. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It has been my privilege to report to the minority who is trying to defend the importance of the Senate, opposing the introduction of the preamble to the ratification act. First, let me refer to some of the comments made by my previous speaker. First of all, I would like to explain, because we are dealing with a misunderstanding or a conscious misunderstanding in order to address this statement so gently. It's about that unanimity you mentioned, Senator Klich. Of course, this vote, the last vote, in favour of the ratification act, is an expression of the will of the Senators of Law and Justice to support this ratification act. But at the same time an expression of our will, an expression of our clear opposition to this content of the preamble, is the motion of the minority, which I have the honour to present. I think that's what it took to explain. Regarding the question that we asked at the committee's meeting whether the bill could be supplemented by a preamble, whether the ratification act could be supplemented by a preamble... This also requires clarification, because my previous speaker partially presented the opinion of the Legislative Bureau. It is true that the Senate may add a preamble to the content of this ratification act. These are the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. During the meeting, the Minister pointed out three judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, which said that this possibility could be supplemented by such a statute on the preamble. But, as also stressed by the Legislative Office, and as is clear from these judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, the preamble cannot be normative, cannot constitute an institution, rights, can be limited only to the occasional or solemn It may be better to say that a solemn call, a call for values relevant to the approval body, or a call for higher forces. The preamble does not meet this condition This has to be pointed out clearly, and this is what our Legislative Office pointed out. Because this preamble contains constitutional, normative issues. To this end, a Monitoring Committee will be set up to supervise the implementation of the projects... If it's not normative, if it's not normative, then... We stand here in clear contradiction - What's going on? However, there is evidence of the minority's request, which I present to the majority of the committee contradicts the opinion presented by the government, which was presented by our Legislative Office. It also contradicts the three judgments of the Constitutional Court, which are known and known in legal proceedings. The opinion that Senator Klich referred to, the opinion of a group of professors commissioned by Marshal Grodzki, is an opinion that refers to the question whether there may be a preamble here. And there's no doubt about that: it's okay. However, it does not refer to what this preamble might be. I will say even more: this opinion, which was presented at the committee's meeting, shows the way to conclude the normative content, the Senate's expectations in another act. I heard with some hope whether today I saw an addition to the agenda for an opinion that the Senate would adopt by means of a separate resolution, which would include the content that you wish to smuggle in to some extent in this preamble. You are encouraged to do so by professors acting on behalf of Marshal Grodzki. That's a clear recommendation. I hope that you will benefit from this recommendation, you will vote in favour of the minority's request, for ratification, which will not be involved in international trade, and your intentions, your expectations will be included in an opinion that is extensive and which will be discussed separately. 24 countries have already ratified... [[Voice from the room: 25 countries.]] 25, thank you very much. 25 countries have already ratified this decision, all without additions, without amendments. I think Poland should not stand out here, especially with such a preamble. And now a little bit about the recital itself, because that's also what we talked about at the meeting. This preamble, even in a non-normative part, gives the impression of a document written hurriedly, I don't want to say that on my knee, but carelessly. Not only is it a repetition of the content already contained in the agreements, in the European Treaty, in our constitution, but it also ignores the important tasks of the Fund for Reconstruction, overlooks the important directions of modernisation of the state. I'll quote that. In the interests of applicants, the funds from the Fund for Reconstruction will serve to modernise the state, develop and innovate the economy, improve health protection, strengthen the education, environmental and climate systems. During the committee meeting, one of the ministers Forgive me, I can't remember exactly which one, and I didn't take note of what was omitted in this calculation. There is no question of pension reform. So, the pensioners from the Reconstruction Fund won't benefit? The issue of support to farmers has been omitted. The Minister pointed out in particular that representatives of the Polish People's Party signed the project. They didn't notice there weren't any farmers there. And the important issue of supporting infrastructure development has also been ignored. That's not in the math, either, including the call. Therefore, I allow myself to say with all my power that the haste in writing this recital was too great, even though the Senate has received so much time to ponder over this ratification. Finally, another argument that relates to the recital is the question of the answer to the question: what is the regulation that we are to ratify? According to its title, this law treats the ratification of the Council's decision on the system of own resources of the European Union. It refers to the question of own resources, to the resources that the European Union will obtain. The references in the preamble to the Fund for Reconstruction and the National Reconstruction Plan refer to a different document and should therefore not be included in the ratification act. This law is in fact the consent of the Sejm and the Senate to the signature by the President of this agreement, under this regulation, under this document of an international nature, hence the calls, which are included in this preamble, are formally addressed to the President of the Republic, I understand. Is he the one who's going to set up that monitoring committee you're talking about in the preamble? I think we're dealing with a lot of confusion here. Therefore, in the interests of the seriousness of the Senate and the legal order, I ask you to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u27	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, Senator Jerzy Wczyła.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u28	I have a question for Senator Bogdan Klich. Mr Senator, did the committee's meeting discuss the relationship between the date of the Senate's adoption of the ratification act and Poland's receipt of the first tranche of EU money? If such a discussion has been made, please tell us what the relationship between these two facts is. Can the adoption of this law, not on the 14th, but on the 27th, change the date of Poland's receipt of the money?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u29	Mrs. Marshal! Of course the subject was raised, I may have talked too much about it. Indeed, these cases were in a few speeches, mainly in the speech by Marshal Kaminski, if I remember correctly. It was about who was really responsible for delaying the ratification process. After all, the government is responsible for this, after all, for a long time the government has not submitted a bill to the Sejm, it is the government that has delayed it, and it has delayed it in front of the whole of Europe. We've seen it. In addition to this report, I can of course recall my own article for Gazeta Wyborcza, probably from the beginning of January, in which I pointed to this delay as a political error of the government. And then it was a few months before the bill was submitted to the Sejm. I share the opinion of Marshal Kaminski that the cause of this delay was a political dispute in the ruling camp itself, a dispute that really paralyzed the possibility for the government to submit this bill to parliament. We could have been one of the first, and we're one of the last. The government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is responsible for this and a deep crack in this government. There is no known example of another country from among the 27 Member States of the European Union in which such a deep political crack would have occurred in the governing camp, and it is responsible or perhaps it has made this ratification request so late to Parliament. That's what we talked about at the committee meeting, and there was no debate about that statement. That is why I am expanding this brief account, which I presented to you earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u30	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u31	Thank you very much. I have two questions for Senator Klich. My first question is this. Was the caselaw of the Constitutional Court analysed in detail in these legal analyses as regards the addition of anything to ratification laws? Typically, these are laws on the content of a single task, i.e. consents to the President to ratify the international agreement in question on behalf of the Republic of Poland. Were such considerations included in these analyses? And my second question. Wouldn't adding this recital lead to this situation, that if it had also remained in the parliamentary vote, and we couldn't rule that out... Wouldn't that cause perturbation in connection with the ratification of this agreement? It's just that the so-called. cheap countries I'm not going to name them, I'm talking about some Member States. It would certainly raise this element in the discussions in the EU. Was there a discussion at the committee meeting on this subject? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u32	Mrs. Marshal! I think I already answered the second question, quoting e.g. One of the senators who actually raised this topic, but also the answer of another senator who reminded us of it... I think it was the senator... It's about another senator's statement, which reminded me that the government had acted on its own to... that the government had two... That was Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka's statement. As regards spending issues, I would like to point out: spending funds, i.e. implementing projects under the National Reconstruction Plan, the government itself requested that this 2-month period be extended for dialogue with the European Commission. Government has stepped up If I remember correctly, because we haven't discussed it in so much detail. By a time of up to 4 weeks, by an additional time of up to 4 weeks. Right? But in order not to mix these cleanings, I will say: yes, indeed, such comments were given, but they also met with a replica. Were the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal also examined in these legal analyses? Although this topic was not discussed at the committee meeting, I would say that in this legal analysis that we are referring to, there is a very detailed analysis of both the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal and the legal practice in this regard. So I answer: yes, there is also an analysis of the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal in this legal opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u33	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Three short questions. First. Is the ratification act that we are currently considering - No, actually, it's a ratification permit law. Is he talking about an international agreement? Otherwise, is the decision on the European Union's own resources an international agreement, or does the Treaty's law apply to it? Second line. We're talking about... I mean, it may not be us physically, but the Houses of Parliament have already taken it twice before, and then there was no pre-emption or endorsement of ratification of any legislation. Have you considered at the committee meeting why this was not necessary at the time, and now it is necessary? What has changed? In a legal situation, of course. And question three. In fact, this decision will be implemented by the European Commission. She's... [[By what?]] By the European Commission, by the authorities, let's call it generally, perhaps safer European. I think the tribunal will be part of it. And here's the question: was it your intention, when you proposed such a text and not another recital, that whether a Monitoring Committee will be set up in Poland would affect how this decision will be implemented by the bodies of the European Union? Well, that's what it looks like here. There is an obligation of Poland that it will be such and not another Monitoring Committee, there is even an attempt to determine its composition, a provision already typically technical. Then explain the causal link here. Do we really have the power to try our regulations, our omissions or actions in Poland to influence the implementation of this decision? I have already said that this decision will be implemented by the bodies of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u35	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. The first case was not examined by the committee. The one you asked about, whether the ratification concerns an international agreement. I can say from myself: of course, ratification concerns an international agreement which binds the Republic of Poland. [[I asked a different question. Listen carefully. Is what we ratify an agreement... an act that we allow the president to ratify in this bill an international agreement? That's the kind of question.]] I'll answer you more precisely. This ratification concerns the decision to set up a decision on the system of own resources of the European Union. I'm just saying that to be very precise. This is a decision on the system of own resources of the European Union, a decision similar to those which have been taken twice before, i.e. Seven years earlier and 14 years earlier. Because every time we open a new seven-year-old, so-called. The multiannual financial framework for the European Union must be ratified on the basis of Polish law and on the basis of Article. 89 constitutions. That's the bottom line when it comes to the legal side. This was not analysed by the committee, but this is the legal situation. I'm sure the senator would have asked why in 2014 and 2007 there wasn't, and now there's a draft to add a recital to the ratification bill. Let me put it straight: because there is a fear that these funds will be spent unfairly, that the proceedings will be non-transparency, that they will be better and worse. The better ones will have access, and the worse ones will not have access to the resources of this instrument for political reasons. There is such concern, and because of this concern, we believe that all of us who are sitting here in this House have an obligation to stand on the side of the values which are included in this preamble and to say that our intentions are pure, that we have no evil intentions. This should ensure that each Polka and every Pole is fairly spent, that the procedures are transparent and that each entity is equally entitled to access these funds. Was she... In fact, I answered your third and second questions at the same time. In your second question, you asked if there was an analysis of earlier ratifications and what was the intention of the originators. [[If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u37	Please. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u38	I have a question for you. What's really going on here? Since you have said that, I understand that you have the idea that the way in which money is spent by one country, in this case Poland, in the framework of the CPO, is to condition whether and how much money can be collected by the European Commission, because that is what the decision on the system of own resources is in the document. Do you see here as if, I don't know, reverse causality? I can't put it any other way. I'm also talking about time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u39	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u40	Mrs. Marshal, I don't see any parole here. Once again, there is no conditionality in this preamble. This preamble doesn't make any difference. This preamble is an expression of intent and an expression of our axiological conviction as to what it should look like, so to speak, a proper, standard conduct. There's no parole here. You used that phrase, so I'm saying polemically: there's no conditionality here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u41	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u42	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for Senator Bierecki. Dear Senator, I have a question. I understand that during the committee's meeting there was a legal opinion which was prepared on the admissibility of supplementing the act approving the ratification of the international agreement by the Senate by adopting amendments. Is it true that this expertise was not prepared by independent experts of all rights, but by the Marshal of the Senate's advisors, who form a team for the control of constitutionality in the composition: dr hab. Ryszard Balicki, Professor Mariusz Bidziński, Professor Marek Chmaj, Doctor Habilized... ... Prof. Radosław Grabowski, Prof. Sławomir Patyra, Prof. Bronisław Sitek and Dr. Tomasz Zalasiński? Is it true that this expertise, prepared by the Marshal of the Senate's advisors, remains in complete contrast to the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, which is famous for its expertise, reliability and full professionalism? And is it true that this advisory team also creates such a team for the control of constitutionality of the law here in Senate X of the term of office? Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u43	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u44	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, yes, yes, yes. I can answer all your questions, yes. Indeed, this opinion, this expertise that you used, Senator Klich and the other senators, has been drawn up outside the Legislative Office and in some sense contradicts what we heard at the meeting by a representative of the Legislative Office. Here I can say one thing: I, during the committee meeting, also pointed out that the professors who signed this expertise had faced a very difficult task because they really answered the question whether there could be a preamble here. And they said yes. Then they wondered about the scope of this recital and suggested to the payer that his thoughts should be included in the preamble. And these thoughts would be of a normative nature, contained in a separate resolution. I have no doubt about the integrity of this expertise. That's what I'm saying, that's what I'm saying, and I was talking about it at the committee meeting, and now I'm also from the stand. Because, as our Legislative Office also pointed out, it was very difficult to address the issue without knowing the content of the amendment. And the Legislative Office also pointed out that in its first opinion it referred to the issue of whether there could be a preamble, without knowing the content of the proposed amendment. And the content of this recital goes beyond the constitutionally acceptable scope of the preamble The Constitutional Tribunal has stated that this is clearly the case. The proposed content is therefore defective. I hope that the authors of this amendment, after thinking about it, had enough time to ponder. They will withdraw from the preamble in this text, we will adopt this law without amendments, and we will debate the suspicion of the regularity and transparency of spending funds from the National Plan for Reconstruction when discussing another Senate resolution that is on today's agenda. This is what I urge you to do. I do not want to go any further on the content of this recital, because I would not want us to focus on emotions in such an important case for Poland or that the emotions that concern this recital obscure the essence of the matter. This really is a historic moment for Poland, it is a historic moment for Europe to ratify this regulation of the European Council. This is too serious a matter for us to spend our time really thinking about the things that are in this bill, and to be precise, they are in its preamble because of current political needs. It is too serious that, due to these current political needs, we forget the most important issue, the consequences for Poland of ratifying this Council decision, this regulation. By the way, I would like to say to you that, to my amazement at the joint committee meeting, none of the opposition senators asked questions about the size of the funds that Poland will pay for the new resources of the European Union, about the consequences of this burden for our citizens. Those questions haven't been answered. I understand that you have the answers, you are satisfied with them, and you agree to it. It is worth noting that the discussion in the High House, in the Senate, in my understanding... in my opinion, so to speak, did not concern the substance of the matter precisely because the Senators of the Civic Coalition decided to present nothing to the issue of the preamble. So much for answers. I'm sorry for my digression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u45	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u46	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for both Senators rapporteurs... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Perhaps first to Senator Bierecki, since he is still standing here. There you go.]] Namely, I am referring to issues which are sometimes raised in the public debate. Firstly, whether or not the European Union's own resources mechanism itself was a step towards the European Union's federalisation at the committee's meeting Was there any detailed discussion on this subject? In spite of all this, is it not a limitation of the sovereignty of the Polish state in certain aspects? And my second question. Was there a discussion at the committee meeting on detailed rules for repayment? I might remind those who are following us that the whole package is roughly 770 billion, of which 500 billion is from a budgetary perspective for 2021 to 2027, about 270 billion is from the Fund for Reconstruction, of which 168 billion is a returnable part of the Fund for Reconstruction, and the rest is, I understand, non-refundable, i.e. We're not paying for this. However, 168 billion remain to be repaid. How will these funds be repaid, how long and has there been any economic analysis, any expertise and discussion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u47	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u48	Thank you very much. I can answer to the senator, to a great extent, with regret: no, no, no. There was no such discussion and these economic calculations were not presented during the committee meeting. I hope that now during the debate here in the Senate, when a representative of the government will be admitted to the floor. There's a very competent squad in this room today. All this information, senators... excuse me, senators, you will hear. It's important. As I said, in a very sad conclusion, the Senate dealt with the discussion of the preamble, did not deal with... sorry, the joint Senate committees dealt with the discussion of this preamble, did not discuss the substance of the regulation contained in the ratification act.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u49	Thank you very much. And now the question for you...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u50	So I understand that as far as my first question is concerned, there was no discussion either, no discussion about the limitation of sovereignty, right? Because there were two of my questions. The first one concerned the creation of this mechanism, thus depriving the Polish state of certain attributes of sovereignty. There was no substantive discussion about this at committee meetings, either?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u51	Mr Senator, no one has asked about the nature of the own resources to be obtained by the European Union, their relationship to our budget, also their nature in our law, whether they are taxes or not. No one asked that question. No one asked about the size of these burdens either. Finally, the question of the sovereignty of the delegation of powers was also not raised in any questions at the committee meeting. As I said, I understand that the opposition senators are well informed and satisfied with the knowledge they have.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u52	Thank you very much. That was for Senator Bogdan Klich, too, wasn't it? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u53	As for these calculations, Mr Senator, there was indeed no discussion at this joint committee meeting, perhaps because the ladies and gentlemen of both committees had recently remembered the previous meeting of the joint committees, the same committees. I don't know if you, Mr. Senator, were on the last one... [[I was, remotely, yes.]] Oh, you were remotely involved. I must therefore remind you of what Senator Bierecki has not mentioned, i.e. the fact that we had a long debate Which Mr. Marshal Pęk called a boring seminar, and this 3.5-hour meeting of both committees was devoted, among others. That's what Senator Jackowski was asking. We were then wondering why the government does not use the full Polish rate, the amount of about 260 billion PLN, why it does not programme its plans for the whole amount and only for part of this amount. It should be noted that in relation to the first version of the KPO, which was sent to Brussels on 26 February, there was a positive change in this regard, because at that time no sums from the loan pool were taken into account, none, zero, were programmed actions for the amount of only and only about PLN 107 billion. And we talked about this much earlier, before 30 April, at the previous hearing, wondering why this is happening. After all, if you decide to have less money than what you really have at your disposal, it means that not all needs can be taken into account. Then, in turn, during this seminar In fact, we welcomed the fact that several dozen people from different backgrounds took part in the public hearing because the funds were also taken into account in the loan pool. But we also asked why. In terms of health care... I'll tell you more why in terms of health recovery the government has proposed And I think we're gonna talk about that too today. The reduction of the appropriations from the grant part, although increased the appropriations for this purpose in their entirety. We have doubts. on this and we have reservations that the funds from the grant part have been reduced in the latter version of the KPO in relation to the first version. And we ask: why? Are hospitals for making money? Are hospitals capable of doing business in order to earn profit and to be able to pay off their liabilities later? After all, hospitals are that part of the business, the part of the public sphere that needs to be financed. It should therefore be financed from the grant part and not from the loan part. So we talked about this, Mr. Senator, at the previous sitting, we talked about these financial matters that you asked about, but not at the meeting on the ratification bill. [[Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u54	Thank you very much. Are you Senator Bierecki yet? [[Yeah, it's called...]] Here you go, sitting down. Please take it easy... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u55	Thank you very much. Oh, I see there's a card in here. As a corrigendum, I would just like to point out to the senator who asked the question, after hearing Senator Klich's answer, that Senator Klich was referring not to this sitting... [[Yeah, yeah, yeah.]] ...yes, not for this meeting. [[Before.]] Therefore, my answer was fully correct. At the meeting which we are rapporteurs, these issues were not addressed. As regards the extent to which they were discussed at another meeting, with the participation of various invited persons, including, for example, Mrs. Lempart... It was a meeting with a historical statement. I encourage your senators to familiarize themselves with the transcript. This is an example of the development of parliamentarianism in the Senate. As regards the scope of the speech at this meeting, I also allow myself to have a different opinion than my colleague Senator Klich. The discussion at this meeting focused exclusively on the National Plan for Reconstruction, not on the issue of ratification law, the European Union's own resources, the problems of sovereignty, the size of resources, the burdens on Polish citizens and the benefits that Polish citizens will gain from it. This was not the discussion at the committee meeting, but only about the National Reconstruction Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u56	Thank you. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz's question, please. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u57	Thank you. A statement in the form of a question, of course, not correction. This is a question for Senator Bierecki. You regretted that some important, essential issues were not raised. And I have a question for you: have you been to this committee meeting, and have you tried to address these issues?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u58	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u59	Thank you very much. Of course I was at that meeting. As you know, I am the rapporteur for the minority proposal. My regret or attention was only to the opposition senators. I have clearly pointed out that they have focused on the issue of the discussion on the proposed preamble, not on issues that concern the substance of the issue. So much for explanation, Mr. Marshal. I hope we have a better opposition at our next meetings. [[Thank you very much, Senator. Everything is clear to me. The Platform senators weren't the only ones at the meeting. There were also you and other Senators of the PiS, and you only pay attention to the Senators of the Platform. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u60	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Mariusz Gromka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur, Mr Grzegorz Bierecki. Mr Senator, was there a point in the discussion at the committee's meeting concerning whether other Member States adopted any recitals in their own ratifications?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u62	Yes. If my memory doesn't confuse me, yes. It was repeatedly raised, pointed out by government representatives. The Minister informed about the ratification process, he pointed out that there were 24 countries at that time. There are now 25 of them that have ratified without any additions, without amendment. It was pointed out. All I can tell you is that Senator Klich was talking about the Poles being owed money from the Reconstruction Fund. I fully agree with what the senator said. It is only a pity that Poles will have to wait a little longer because of the proposed recital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u63	Thank you. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Elephant's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. The question is addressed to Senator Bogdan Klich, President. It concerns the examination by the High Commission of the ratification process in those countries of the European Union which are already behind such ratification. Were the arguments raised at committee meetings by these forces in individual countries, which sceptically referred to ratification and not to any other construction of the Reconstruction Fund, the European Fund, which amounts to more than EUR 750 billion? Is this the kind of argument that someone at committee meetings was trying to introduce into the preamble or to the other conditions that would be attached to this ratification that we have ahead of us at the moment? Were there any examples of Germany, where ratification was based on the Constitutional Tribunal, or, for example, Finland, where it took a very long time, but there, however, the opposition was able to accept the arguments of the rulers and support this ratification? Were there any comments raised in any country that has already been ratified on the possible way in which the current fund funds are spent, or were there only comments raised on the design of the fund, or any comments on whether it was necessary to secure some sort of ratification from those who would become the result of such and not the other system of raising these funds, the bankrupts? Because if that were the case in your opinion... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, I would ask very much... I do not limit time, but please...]] I'm almost done. I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. Were such arguments... If they were here, it would be understandable to me that we care about the future of the whole European Union, but also of our country. However, at the moment, in your position, presented by the majority, all I can see is concern and concern about how these funds will be spent by the rulers. Plus, I'm asking if there were any comments about the construction itself as a means of raising the profile of the document, not... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, I would very much like to ask... A minute's time for a question.]] ...a wishful thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u65	You're welcome. And thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u66	I'll tell you the short part: they weren't.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u67	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask the senator's question... No? Not anymore. Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u68	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator rapporteur, we are all in the country discussing the Local Investment Fund and today this is an excellent example of how the current government distributes public funds. 8 local governments of voivodships ruled by the opposition received jointly, Mr. Senator, PLN 35.9 million, while 8 voivodships in which PiS ruled or co-managed were supported by nearly 300 million. Or let's look a little different. The funds received by all local authorities per capita amounted to: in Podkarpackie Voivodeship 231 zł, in Podlaskie, 155 zł, in Lublin, 149 zł. What is the link between these regions? Yeah, he runs the PiS. Now let's compare this with the fact that there were 76 PLN per inhabitant in the Great Wielkopolska, in my beloved Lubuskie, 83 PLN, and in Opole it was 89 PLN. What is the link between these regions? He's not in charge of the PiS. Hence my question and my concern for the future of generations: what is the guarantee, Mr. Senator, that the funds from the National Reconstruction Plan will not be shared in a similar unfair way as the funds from the Government Local Investment Fund? It is not my question as a senator, it is the question of all self-governments who have such concerns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u69	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u70	Mrs. Marshal, this is also a question of many Poles and Poles, not only locals, not only politicians. Isn't this gonna happen again? Moreover, there are much more examples of stubbornness in public spending, and this does not apply only to the Government Local Investment Fund. Well, the practice so far on the part of the power camp has made us prepare not only a recital project in which they will be expressed again. Some values and intentions, but also a draft resolution of the Senate, which goes much further, because there are records that will then, hopefully, be translated into normative content, i.e. they will be included in the appropriate bill. I hope so. And that's hope expressed at the committee's meeting, I think. That a law of implementation will be drawn up, i.e. a law that will already be clear about everything that cannot be written in the preamble, which must be free from any conditionality. Therefore, this implementation law should include provisions relating, for example, to the specific competences of the Monitoring Committee, how this Monitoring Committee will exercise its supervision, how it is to be set up, how these different environments will identify their representatives, what the criteria for selecting the contractors of individual projects will be and what the criteria for evaluating these projects will be after their final closure. This is an elementalist, in normal times you wouldn't have to write about it or talk about it anywhere. Normally, one could only wonder whether there is a point in setting up such a large Monitoring Committee, or whether it would suffice for a smaller one. But writing in the National Plan for Reconstruction, in its original, first version, a committee composed exclusively of representatives of the government to carry out these projects, was simply something much more than an oversight. Recording in the second version, addressed to Brussels on 30 April, that there will be representatives there I'm quoting from memory. The representative non-governmental organisations give the Minister of Development the full freedom to choose the NGOs he considers appropriate. And it is not for the Minister to decide that in the end. The Minister is only to approve the decision taken by the environment concerned. Well, that's how it is in the whole civilized world. I hope that such records will be included in the implementation bill. We in this opinion, which we will adopt in the form of a resolution I hope that it will be adopted today, and we are directing the government in our view to the relevant provisions, the decisions that should be included in the implementation law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u71	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of senators wishing to ask questions to the Senators has been exhausted. The bill was filed by the government. The Senate Marshal invited the Senate Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziebra, who voted against in the Sejm and had no opportunity to present his position during the parliamentary debate. Unfortunately, Minister Ziobro did not appear at the meeting. But the ministers showed up. I warmly welcome the representative of the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Minister Waldemar Buda, the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, and the representative of the Ministry of Finance, Minister Piotr Patkowski. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the government's position? I see you're all checking in. There you go, maybe Minister Buda first.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u72	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the ratification law is a government document and of course it is supported by the government, there is no doubt about it. It won a parliamentary majority, a vast parliamentary majority, because 290 votes in the Sejm. And today the Senate is faced with a decision, so that in a way, hopefully, the government will support this solution, which according to this objective assessment is absolutely beneficial and absolutely serves Polish interests. The problems, of course, are in the details. And that's what I'd like to say. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that none of the 25 countries that have ratified today have added any additional elements beyond those resulting from ratification, i.e. approval of ratification by the relevant body in the Member State concerned. Therefore, as part of the government's position, I would like to call for any additional elements that will be considered as amendments to the Parliamentary Law of ratification not to be included in this Act, because this has its practical and legal consequences, which could significantly impede the ratification of the entire Fund for Reconstruction in the European Union. The real consequences are above all that the introduction of the preamble will lead to a situation in which this law will have to return to the Sejm. Then this ratification process will not end at the Senate, because this preamble will be treated as an amendment. This unfortunately extends the ratification process, and we must, ladies and gentlemen, bear in mind the basic dates and deadlines that bind us. We are the penultimate country... Perhaps we will be the last country to ratify. In accordance with the Council Decision, this Decision shall enter into force at the end of the month, which is the month following ratification by each Member State. As a result, ratification in May would mean that these measures would be just a month faster. The transmission of this now again to the Sejm, with the awareness that, of course, the President also has a deadline of 21 days, makes it unlikely to fit within that period from the point of view of the procedure which is enshrined in the Constitution. So if it is the intention of the Senate to express any declarative views on the ratification bill or more broadly on the National Reconstruction Plan, then go ahead. There is a resolution for this, an opinion which the Senate can present, but in a separate, separate document, because then it does not block anything and complicates the ratification process. Ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned about the situation in which this ratification will be examined by the European Commission, the specific features of our legal system will be examined, and the effect of this preamble, which it has on the condition that the ratification law is adopted, on the adoption of the Council's own resources decisions, will be assessed. Ladies and gentlemen, it must also be borne in mind that ratification itself concerns the decision on the European Union's own resources and this is a very technical decision which contains very detailed data on, you can say, the financing, the budgeting of the European Union. And this, of course, involves financing the Reconstruction Fund. I will read Article 1 of the Decision: The rules for allocating the Union's own resources are laid down in this Decision in order to ensure the financing of the Union's annual budget. On the other hand, own resources entered in the budget of the Union shall consist of revenue from the following sources: And this is where these sources are listed. In Article 3 of the statement of own resources referred to the total amount of own resources allocated in the Union to cover the annual payment appropriations, the total amount of commitment appropriations, etc., etc. These are very complicated financial rules. And they, you can say, are included in this decision of the Council. And what do we have here, what is the Senate's proposal? We are talking about funding, the Council's budgeting, the complex financial matter, and there is a proposal to apply a recital to this ratification decision. Please see how this is related: In the eighteenth year of the Republic of Poland's membership in the European Union, the whole Community faced a huge challenge, which is the socio-economic crisis. The only way out of this crisis is through European solidarity and through the establishment of a European Fund for Reconstruction. How do you get those obvious words... And to whom is this communication addressed, to the Council, which talks about the financing of the European Union, which talks about the financing rules of the European Union? Ladies and gentlemen, this is a mockery. If we send this message to the inside, it means that we inform Poles that we are 18 years old in the European Union and thus they will receive the funds from the Fund for Reconstruction a month later. Thank you. Let us explain all this in the debate, let us explain it all in other opinions, but let us not ridicule ourselves with this kind of preamble, and let us not say that this is some element that brings anything to this law. This, firstly, has nothing to do with this decision, and secondly, delays the use of European funds, and we all want them to be as soon as possible. Who of you is ready today to explain that a month does not matter from the point of view of mobilising these funds, then go to your one-mandate districts and explain that the funds will not be in July or August, but will only be in September, to those entrepreneurs who are waiting for it. Well, let's not make fun of the serious thing that we should have in common. Let's not do politics. Tomorrow we can come and we can argue about any other law, because then it usually doesn't matter whether it's the day before or the day after. Most often these are disputes that are based on certain beliefs. There's no ideology here, there's no reason to share it. Why is this done, ladies and gentlemen? We understand that you have I am talking here about the Civic Coalition, a problem with getting out of the situation where the Civic Coalition abstained from voting in the Sejm. This is where you have to look for a reason to vote in favour. But let's really get this over with. Let's get over this problem and say... [[Voice from the room: In whose opinion?]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] ...that it was a mistake there, and here we are fixing this situation and voting for the Rehabilitation Fund for everyone. And I'm sure your constituents will appreciate very well that we have all stood, as a political class, at the level of our task, up to the challenge we face. Because this case will pass, but it will be recorded in the Senate's annals, parliamentarianism, as an element that should unite us and show us that we are able to act together, because there are such things. Once in a while, things like this happen. Which we should have in common. I appeal to that, ladies and gentlemen. This preamble will serve nothing, and at the same time may lead to late payment. Austria is in the final stage of ratification. There's a chance she'll make it by the end of the month. What happens then? Only Poland will not accept this decision until the end of May. The European Council concluded yesterday. All comments, informal discussions related to the Polish delegation. Of course, it was asked when ratification would take place, why this ratification is prolonged, why these delays, why amendments, where the proposals for amendments were tabled, where the preamble was drawn up. Because there was no such practice on the basis of both Polish and European legislation. Of course, 25 countries did not even think about making such amendments to the ratification law. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the debate in Croatia, which was in Hungary, in the Netherlands. After all, there the disputed political camps jointly voted in favour of the mobilisation of the Fund for Reconstruction. And there they could communicate and say, "Let's fight, but not about this case." That's why I'm appealing again. That can really change. Move this preamble to the Senate resolution. Let's discuss this. We can relate to that. I can also tell you what you are planning on this resolution and opinion. She refers to a law that does not exist, because the implementation law does not yet exist, talking about the procedure and content of the National Reconstruction Plan, which is contained in the regulation. Therefore, the regulation as a pre-law in our Polish national order is contradictory in this situation, i.e. this resolution is contrary to the regulation. Let us discuss the legal aspects of this situation, because it will not block the ratification process and will not hinder our relations and discussions with the European Commission. I have another meeting with the European Commission today at 5 pm and, of course, I will be asked what the preamble is because we will probably be after this process. Of course, I will explain, this will be explained, we will discuss: that this is such a political dispute in Poland; that this is an environment that is very pro-European, but nevertheless determines ratification; that it is an environment that is going to be very European, but at the same time it was against the Fund for Reconstruction as the only pro-European environment in Europe in the largest party in the European Parliament. And I must face such questions, ladies and gentlemen. Aren't we making fun of ourselves in this situation, using it for our own political purposes? Who benefits from this? Because the vote on May 4 showed that you weren't. And that was a mistake. So let's get off this road, let's say: this is a common matter, let's decide this together, this is an opportunity for development of Poland and Europe as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u73	Thank you very much, Minister. Minister Piotr Wawrzyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u74	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The bill was passed to the Senate on May 5th, over three weeks ago. Then we had a chance to be in the middle of the stakes, and today we're fighting to even make it on time. We'll most likely be the last country. I'm gonna move on to the bill. I would like to start by pointing out that this is a ratification act, which is a very specific act. A specific legislative initiative is also developed, as is the content of the law itself and the way in which it is handled. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the basis of the legal acts which I will quote further, considers that it is unacceptable for the Senate to adopt amendments to it. However, even if the ratification law was not involved, but a classic law, it must be remembered that the Senate has the right to make amendments to the law which has already been passed by the Sejm, but these amendments must remain within the scope of the provisions laid down by the Sejm. If the Senate amendments propose the introduction of contents which go beyond In quotation marks The width of the so-defined law must be considered to go beyond the scope of the law adopted by the Sejm and become an independent legislative initiative. It should be stressed that, of course, the Senate has the right to legislative initiative, but not in the form of an amendment. In order not to be literal, I will quote to you a passage from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 23 November 1993, where, in its explanatory memorandum, the Court states: "It is necessary that the Senate should confine itself to making amendments only to the amending act, i.e. to the text which has been forwarded to him for consideration. Exit outside this text cannot be regarded as an amendment to the Act. It may concern cases which were not at all dealt with by the Sejm. (...) This may lead to the circumvention by certain parties who have the right of legislative initiative, the earlier stages of the legislative process, in the fear that its proposals will not be accepted in normal proceedings. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 23 February 1999: "However, if this exit takes on a significant scale and amendments propose the introduction to the Act of contents which are not directly linked to the purpose and subject-matter of the Act, it must be considered that these amendments go beyond the scope of the Act and take the form of spontaneous legislative proposals. The Senate is entitled to make such submissions, but it can only do so in the form of a legislative initiative and cannot do so in the form of an amendment. In turn, if this content is included in the form of an amendment rather than a legislative initiative, constitutional legislative provisions, and in particular Article, will be infringed. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Paragraph 121. 2nd Constitution. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 20 July 2006: The Senate therefore covered the scope of the amendment to the matter which was not the subject of a law passed on to it by the Sejm. That is why a judgment has been given stating that the Constitution has been infringed in relation to the scope of the amendments made by the Senate. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 17 September 2008: In the light of the case law of the Court of Justice, it must therefore be considered that the Senate amendment was inadmissible as it prevented the achievement of the purpose of the regulation adopted by the Sejm. I'm paying attention to this. Which was also mentioned in the speech of my previous speaker The Council Decision does not refer to the Council of the European Union's own resources proposed by you. As you recall, it concerns a different document. The National Reconstruction Plan is not adopted on the basis of this Decision of the Council of the European Union. The amendment implies the addition of a recital. The amendment tabled at the meeting of the Senate committees does not refer to the editorial part of the ratification act, in quotes, but, according to the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is irrelevant because the admissibility of the amendment does not determine the editorial position of it in the section of the articleed law or outside the law adopted by the Sejm. Whether the amendment introduces a normative content or not into the law, otherwise it would be possible to circumvent the mandatory legislation on the legislative process and thus the constitutional rules. There's no question about it. And this is where I agree with the previous speakers. That it is possible to add a recital. In this context, it should be recalled that, in its judgment of 11 May 2007, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that it was incompatible with the Article. 2th Recital Constitution to the Act. In its case-law, the Court regarded normativeity as a prerequisite for a judgment on substance. Regardless of the content of the preamble, it is normative as it can be used for the reconstruction of legal standards or as an interpretation guide affecting the content of other regulations. Therefore, firstly, as I have pointed out above, the amendment in the form of a preamble goes beyond the matter governed by the law and, as such, is unacceptable from the constitutional point of view of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal which I have invoked. Secondly, the preamble is in fact a substantive amendment aimed at creating normative effects and, as such, in the light of constitutional provisions and the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal is unacceptable. I therefore call on the senators to answer the question whether you wish to vote in favour of the Constitution and reject the proposed preamble, whether you wish to violate the Constitutional provisions by your vote and disregard a number of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal in the name of party interest. If you call yourselves constitutional defenders, reject this preamble, because it will simply be a disagreement with the Constitution and with the Constitutional Tribunal's judgments. What you are proposing is simply frivolous from a normative, legislative and, above all, constitutional point of view. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u75	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Using the fact that we have a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in front of us right now, I would like the Minister to speak a very simple language once again. Because you can see that there are problems of nature here, I would call, conceptually, with the understanding of the text that is being delivered from the speaker by a group of senators. Why the preamble cannot find a place in a law that permits ratification. Because the fact that you referred to some acts here, I would call it constitutional, which is in this case the Court's judgments, is one thing, and the other is a matter of And that's the basis. The fact that each preamble is normative. If it's normative, it can't be found... And this cannot, in particular, and for a simple reason: it goes even beyond what the Sejm has given us, it really concerns another act, because what else is the Council Decision of 14 December 2020, and what else is the Regulation of the European Parliament establishing an Instrument for Reconstruction and Enhancing Immunity to which the National Reconstruction Plan is to refer, the Regulation of 12 February 2021. Well, it's just a matter of separation of matter. These are basic issues, but obviously, they're incomprehensible. Those who opt for the other side, I would say, for another understanding of these obvious things... Well, they're not in the O.R. right now, but maybe they'll get the translation, or at least get to the public. It simply cannot be a recital in this type of act, in particular in the Senate, which is at the very end of the legislative process.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u77	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u78	In general, I agree with the senator, but it would be acceptable, for example. a preamble to the content: in the name of God Almighty we, the Senate, support the adoption of the decision on the European Union's own resources and support the government's actions in this area. [[Applause]] [[For the sake of the Homeland.]] This is a classic preamble, I did not mention it because I did not bring about one or another of your reactions, just because such admissible content is based on the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Such content, especially invocatio Dei, is one that is acceptable. What you're proposing... As the senator said, I also said, the preamble proposed by the applicants does not concern the decision of the Council of the European Union, it concerns a different matter. As the Minister pointed out, the decision of the Council of the Union concerns Community revenue. Your amendment, the preamble, concerns expenditure, and the expenditure covers the February regulation that you called up the senator this year. The proposed preamble goes beyond the scope of the law adopted by the Sejm. And then there's the second line. The content of this preamble is normative, gives rise to legal effects, imposes normative obligations, and therefore, according to the case law of the Constitutional Court, I stress this. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u79	Thank you. Senator Dorota Czudowska's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u80	Thank you very much, Marshal. I don't know if that's the minister's question. I would like to remind you of Poland's financial contribution to the resources of the European Union. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: If possible, maybe the Minister of Finance will answer...]] Yeah, okay. But in order I was called, I asked that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u81	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I understand it, this question generally concerns Poland's net position as regards the new EU perspective for 2021 and 2027, taking into account also the European Instrument for Reconstruction. Generally speaking, the estimated net position, which is what we gain as a Polish country, is 67.8 billion, and in total transfers from the Union amount to EUR 136.5 billion. So that's almost 68 billion net, that's what we gain. As regards expenditure on the multiannual financial framework, i.e. so-called. EU contribution, that's 51 billion. As far as the increased share of the European Instrument for Reconstruction is concerned, this is EUR 17.5 billion. But that doesn't change the fact that we actually have over 60 billion euros extra. And given the inflationary processes, natural throughout the world economy... remember that today every 1 billion euro is worth more than it's going to be in seven years. In other words, current prices and future prices must also be taken into account. That's what I'm gonna say right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u84	Thank you very much. I have questions for both ministers. First, while you're here, I'll ask the finance minister. Tell me something about the 168 billion that will be available, I understand, in the form of loans or some kind of bond, commitment. This is the refundable part of the Reconstruction Fund. Exactly how will it be repaid and by what year? By 2058, as I read it or not? What are the rules? Who's gonna call it? And is there such a principle here as in the case of communion of debt? They are all jointly and severally responsible for this debt. Or not? I would ask the Minister to make that very clear. In this context, I will also ask if our membership contribution to the European Union increases. Are there such exact calculations, simulations? That's a question for the Minister. And I'm gonna ask Minister Lorenzo a question next time... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Exactly.]] ...so there won't be too many questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u85	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u86	Thank you for this question, because it was also during the discussion that I listened to. I would like to make one point clear here, because I have the impression that two issues are still confused in the debate. The first point is the loan that the European Commission has to borrow In fact, the whole European Community is dragging itself into the market to finance national reconstruction programmes. And this loan, in principle, has nothing to do with the loan that is called the loan part in our discourse, with the loan that the Member States can dispose of. And now, as I understand it, the senator's question... As for this loan that the European Commission is taking, it does not take it as a substitute for the Member States. He takes it as a representative of the Member States. This loan to finance this whole instrument is, as I recall, EUR 750 billion across the Community. The European Commission takes it as a representative of the Member States, but it does not, as a matter of fact, deprive the Member States of the power of this loan. This is a loan that the Commission takes on behalf of the 27 Member States and not instead of them. And this loan has to be repaid since 2027. I'm skipping the part of the interest that will be paid immediately, but the part of the interest due to how cheap this debt is is a microscopic element of this loan. Microscopy, of course, on a European scale. This will be paid by the Community as a whole from 2027, which is also important in the context of the answer to the previous question. I was talking about the fact that today EUR 1 billion weighs far more than it will weigh in 2027 and 2028. This loan, which the European Community is taking to finance the entire Instrument for Reconstruction, will be paid out of higher membership contributions. And here we come to the heart of why it is a very beneficial instrument for Poland. Poland's contribution to the financing of the European Union budget, including the financing of the repayment of the loan taken into account for the Instrument for Reconstruction, is 4,3%. Germany's share is 24.4% , France 17,3%, Italy 12,6%, Spain 9.2%. And you could keep saying that. So that the actual profit from grants from the European Commission will be much greater in the case of Poland than what we will then pay back. The nominal amount of the grant is almost 24 billion. At the moment, it seems that the cost of loans I mean, the share of the higher membership contributions will amount to EUR 17.5 billion, but, as I have already mentioned, it will be repaid from 2027. There is one more reason why Member States cannot be disqualified. Let's read the preamble to the act that the Senate is discussing. Well, it's a discussion about the agreement to ratify it. In this preamble, it is clear that higher membership contributions will be the main instrument for repayment of the loan The main one, but not the only one. The European Commission is going to start a discussion on the so-called. additional sources of income. It could be, for example. carbon footprint tax collected at the border, so-called. carbon duty, financial instruments tax or tax on large digital corporations. This discussion is still ahead of us, but decisions will only be taken within the unanimity of the Member States. No one here can impose any additional charge on the Republic of Poland, any tax on which our government will not agree. I don't care that these are the issues, for example. customs duty on carbon footprint is a request of Polish entrepreneurs. So that this is a separate element of the discussion, but in general these are also issues in which Poland supports certain initiatives in many parts of the Republic. And now I'm moving on to the loans, the part we call part of the loan. It is possible for the States to take a loan to finance the tasks that the State will determine. And that's totally optional. However, the principle of repayment is not yet defined, because it is a completely new instrument in the European Commission, so the Commission itself does not yet know how to approach it. So that this will be worked out in the coming months, but no one here will force Poland to do anything. If it is beneficial for us, we will benefit if the conditions are unfavourable, we will not benefit. So here we have full discretion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u87	Thank you very much. Minister, if you'll just stay a moment, because Senator Czerwiński still has a question for the Minister, and then maybe the Minister... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Sure.]] ...the scream will come. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! They appear in a public discussion and are articled, I'd call it, charges, two charges on the other hand. The first is that Poland may to some extent lose sovereignty, i.e. transfer certain powers to, in this case, bodies of the European Union. And there was a dispute about how to ratify. Ultimately, it was a procedure of major ratification, a small ratification. And the second charge is the charge. It's the communion of debt. Could you, I don't know, confirm these allegations or disprove them in short understandable terms, say, is that true? Are we really reducing our sovereignty by agreeing to ratify our own resources decisions? And since we've taken two of these acts before, it's a question: what was it then, or were we reducing it, or was it just like now, in a sense just a technical act?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u89	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u90	Thank you. Here again we are talking about the substance of the European Commission's debt as a representative, but not as a substitute for the Member States. This is not a new phenomenon. Let me give a simple example: often EU budgets are in deficit, which means that this deficit is covered as in the case of Member States through debt issuance. So that here the issue of debt is not entirely new. The European Commission has done this before. The scale may be interesting, because it has not actually been that scale so far. We could possibly consider losing sovereignty if the Commission were to do so on its own behalf, on its own responsibility, not supporting the Member States, but having the opportunity to draw funds from the Member States for these payments. Here we are dealing with a completely different situation, because the European Commission is here on behalf of the Member States, but it is still actually the debt of the Member States, depending on the share of GDP. And as I mentioned here, participation in financing the EU budget for Poland is 4,3% and in this respect This is our debt. But this is not the debt that the Commission is borrowing and then handing over to us, but the Commission is dragging it on our behalf, which we agree to, and it is not possible for a single cent to attract more. So that here there is no extension of competence. This is also confirmed by the fact that this debt is a non-solidar debt and is distributed proportionally, i.e. everyone has a specific share of this debt. Indeed, it is theoretically possible for a situation which is completely unrealistic from a political and economic point of view: if one Member State is unable to repay its share of the debt, in which case the European Commission is obliged to repay the debt from its resources and then, if it is not feasible, it has the opportunity to ask the Member States to pay the debt proportionally, but with a regression towards that Member State which did not pay the debt at that time. Why is this impossible? Because even Greece, in a very difficult period of 2011 has been constantly supporting its debts, of course, with the launch of the International Monetary Fund credit line, of course with the strong assistance of the European Central Bank. This was the term Troika at the time, because this was still the case with the European Commission. But in general Greece did not lose liquidity at the time, was able to handle its debt and it did not fall, I do not know, on Poland, Portugal or any other country. Therefore, the bankruptcy situation of any Member State is a situation on the ground of what would have happened if a comet had hit the Earth. Well, there's a possibility, but it's practically none. This is a higher power. So here we're talking about proportional debt. And in such a situation Poland is protected anyway, because it will be secured for its contribution, which, as I said in reply to the previous question, is much smaller than Germany, France or Italy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u91	Thank you very much. You have another question for the Minister, Senator Andrzej Spider. [[Room 217.]] O.R. 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u92	Mrs. Marshal, Ministers, I have a question that Mr. Czerwiński has practically asked here, but let me repeat it so that I can get a clear, clear answer, because in many cases this question is changing, and among others. When there was even an election campaign, we emphasized it, they said it wasn't gonna happen... What is it? I'll quote a passage. By accepting the Union's Reconstruction Fund, Poland agrees that our country will be the guarantor of debts incurred by the Union as a whole. This is nothing more than the system of the European Federal State introduced by the rear door. And I quote: "You must not agree to the principle of money for the rule of law, because its acceptance, of course, will soon lead to the practical liquidation of Polish sovereignty. I would also ask for such an unambiguous response to this, whether it is one way or another, from a minister or another minister, from another department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u93	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u94	This is clearly, clearly and briefly: Poland does not become a guarantor of all EU debt after the ratification has been adopted. It becomes a guarantor, as so far, of a debt up to the amount of its membership fee. So that's what it was like in the previous budgetary perspective and the previous one. In this respect, absolutely nothing changes, the rules are maintained.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u95	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski still has a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u96	Yes, because I was intrigued by the Minister's answer to my question. But before I get to it, I'm gonna ask you one more question. Namely, so that I can understand... So the repayment will take place from 2027 to 2058. How is she defined in time? Because that's what I read in the materials. And now I am. Well, I'm a little worried. - I'm not sure. - I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm Your answer, sir. That's because it's not actually clear what this repayment is going to look like. And you didn't answer my question about whether using $28,5 billion, so I'm gonna talk in gold. Using those 160 billion zlotys that, to say the least, the loans come from... If Poland used the maximum amount, how much would the membership fee increase in the years after 2027? Because I think that a serious government should have a simulation on this subject and here parliamentarians should give such an answer, not say nebulously that it will be paid, that it is the European Council that unanimity... So, in a word, we're supposed to take the money, but we don't know the detailed rules for paying off that money. So I'd like the Minister here to answer this question in more detail, because, well, it's gonna be hard for me to support this... since I don't know what the rules are. It's just to be paid off. And that's what I'm trying to say right now. And my second question is: can Poland only take this free money and not use this 168 billion PLN and thus not increase its membership contribution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u97	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u98	Good. Then I'll try to be even more specific. Poland's contribution to the financing of the EU budget is clearly defined at 4,3%. That's a value that doesn't change. With the MFF, we will receive PLN 107,9 billion in current evaluations in 2021 and 2027. From the European Instrument for Reconstruction we will receive PLN 28.6 billion. Total transfers from the Union during this period will amount to PLN 136.5 billion. Of this, we will pay PLN 51.2 billion from the membership fee in the MFF expenditures from 2021 to 2027. Let me remind you again: from the MFF we get PLN 107 billion 900 million, we pay PLN 51 billion 200 million. Within the framework of the so-called. The grant part in KPO will receive exactly PLN 23 billion 900 million and only after 2027 will we repay PLN 17 billion 500 million. So that's very clear. Total estimated net position of Poland is PLN 67 billion 800 million, as much as we are net On the plus side of the balance sheet. As far as the question of repayment is concerned, I will say that the repayment of the grant part, which is exactly what I have already mentioned, and thus PLN 17 billion 500 million after 2027, will come from the increased membership contribution that Poland, as well as all other countries, will pay. It is possible, only now that no one is able to estimate it, because these fees have not yet been introduced, that if they were over-expected profits, e.g. from the levy on capital gains from the coal duty, then these additional revenues will reduce the obligation to pay by the Member States. So that it can only work in plus, unambiguously in plus, there's no way that whatever will work in minus. These amounts that I have reported are the maximum amounts that Poland can pay, but there is a good chance that they will really be lower if these additional revenues from the fee appear. As for the loan part, as a country, we have the opportunity to use it, but we don't have to. If we use this, it's just a loan transaction. There is a borrower and a lender, Poland as a borrower will repay this loan, but under conditions that we will only determine. For the time being, the European Commission has not yet shown these conditions to either Poland or any other country. [[But by what year...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u99	Thank you very much, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u100	I asked the question, what year will these payments take place. How old is that for? Is it for one generation, or is it for two years, or is it for half a generation? How long will this debt be? I understand what you're saying is that this is a bit of a fun situation, because all countries agree to the principle of... Well, you don't know what rules it's gonna pay off. This is an interesting mechanism of operation. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: No.]] You yourself said that the rules on which these loans are to be paid are not yet defined, so you enter into a mechanism that is not known what the rules are. It's like, I'd say, an interesting design when it comes to this fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u101	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u102	Thank you. I have been further improved here, of course the amounts I am giving are amounts in euro to make it clear. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: We all know that in euro.]] Okay, okay, but I wanted to clarify. Again, because maybe I'm not expressing myself precisely. In my opinion, these repayment conditions are clearly precise. There is a method of repayment given, there are given amounts that we receive, and there is a maximum amount that we can repay. This amount may be lower, but it may not be higher. It's like a typical civil law deal: we know how much, we know who, and we know when. With regard to the question when?, this is a perspective of 30 years, but generally the longer the prospect of repayment, the better it is for us. It's like when we take credit: it's better to take credit for a longer period. And this is going to be a much better loan than a bank loan, because in the bank we still have to buy a guarantee, insurance and there are high interest rates, and here we have virtually no interest, there is a long repayment period. So once again: if, as a Polish country, we have the opportunity to take EUR 1 billion from the European Commission and pay EUR 1 billion 800 million out of it in 2040, that is a golden interest for us.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u103	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Thank you very much.]] The Minister is no longer here... [[Me too.]] Oh, and Senator Bierecki. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. There you go. The Minister's being picked up today.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u104	Thank you very much. Well, no wonder, because we're basically talking about money, so the Minister is the most appropriate person here. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please, Mr. Senator.]] I have a few questions. I'll try to fit in the time limit. The first question is this. This European Fund for Reconstruction is a one-off response to the pandemic crisis across the European Union. He is determined, as far as time is concerned, about certain amounts, about amounts. How does this apply to this bill that we're discussing today, to the own resources law? Are these own resources we are talking about temporarily correlated with the functioning of this fund? To be precise, I'm going to ask this question: doesn't that mean that we... Otherwise: is there a risk that, if we take these EUR 24 billion grants, we will agree to an unlimited payment of amounts that may be higher than those of EUR 24 billion? That's the first question. How does one fit the other? That's what I'm asking, in short. The Fund for Reconstruction seems to be closed temporarily and in quota terms. And what does it look like when it comes to own resources? The second question is the loan part of the Fund for Reconstruction. We have the opportunity to borrow. This loan will be defined in a separate agreement, hence its future terms and conditions will be agreed between the parties. It's not unusual or appalling. My question is the dependence of this loan on debt limits, which are set at European level. No, there is an over-indebtedness procedure And the possible dependence of this instrument on our constitutional limits. I understand that if we borrow from the European Commission, it will be treated in the light of our constitution as any other loan. Are there any calculations regarding the limit on this loan that we can borrow under the Reconstruction Fund? That's what I'm asking about the constitutional limit. Do you have such calculations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u105	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u106	Thank you. I would like to start with this, and hope that I will therefore close the answer to Senator Jackowski's question that this period covers the years 2028 and 2058. And now, in the normative act that we are discussing today. Because we are discussing the consent to its ratification, this is clearly stated. The European Commission itself says that the whole instrument is a one-off, strictly temporally defined instrument and cannot be used again. So the Commission will absolutely not be able to say in three years' time that the COVID has had much more negative financial consequences, so that this instrument, which is going to amount to EUR 750 billion, will suddenly turn into a trillion euros and we will have to add 250 billion. There is absolutely no such possibility. We are closely connected with time, money and conditions. This cannot change without the unanimous consent of the Member States. Well, of course, we can come back to this discussion in three years' time, but then Minister Buda or anyone else will come here again, to the High House, to the Sejm and the Senate, and he will persuade you to give his consent, and such consent will be given or refused. Well, no one can make us do that. So that this is strictly, unambiguously defined. How will this affect fiscal rules? As far as the grant part is concerned, there is generally no doubt here. It is a subsidy, so it does not burden us with regard to the deficit, either with regard to the expenditure rule or with regard to debt. It works just like the budget of European funds. There are, of course, temporary deficits, depending on the month in question, but the budget of European funds is generally excluded from the state budget. And grants will work the same way here. Of course, as Poland, we will make payments before the European Commission reimburses us, but in principle it will be a neutral process for public finances. It's a whole other thing. In my opinion, the biggest discussion on this issue will take place over the coming months is just the part of the loan that we can, but we do not need to benefit from. And it, according to the ESA methodology developed by Eurostat, will burden us both with regard to the deficit and with regard to debt or stabilisation of expenditure. I will first mention that some Member States that are interested in loans 'Cause the fact is, these loans aren't much of an interest right now, which doesn't mean it's gonna happen all the time. It calls for these loans to be excluded from the deficit calculation methodology. So we take these loans, we pay them back, but we don't include it in the deficit or in the debt. And that would be a fantastic solution. We do not know if the Commission will agree to this, but I can declare that, as the Polish Government, as the Ministry of Finance, we are in favour of this solution, we will support it. There's a chance it'll work. Secondly, the key issue is who will repay these loans, i.e. who will be the final recipient. Because as we look at a part of KPO, there is a position of possibility of investing in offshore wind farms. Well, it is known that companies involved in this type of PGE, Orlen, will benefit from this, but they can also benefit from this company completely without the involvement of the Treasury sector. And then, if these companies took a loan and they paid it off, then for the debt of public finances and for the deficit it remained neutral, because then it was completely received by the public sector entity. If such a loan were taken by the State Treasury or by a local government unit, it would, according to current standards, be charged with deficit and debt. And that's probably one of the main reasons why these loans aren't very excited at this point, but maybe there'll be some positive changes here. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u107	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Thank you.]] Yet, Minister, you are Senator Jerzy Czerwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Just a quick question. Here are two types of loans. One loan is what the European Union lends, I understand, somewhere in the financial markets. I would ask you to tell me who the Union, or the European Commission, is going to borrow, what institutions. And the second loan is a possible loan of Poland, in short, from the European Commission. The question is, are these loans? 'Cause there's an instrument. Can they be surrendered in the future? Did anything say about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u109	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u110	It's exactly what the senator said. We have 2 types of loans: loans that the European Commission is borrowing on behalf of the Member States to finance NPOs and the possibility of optional loans that we can take as a Member State. On the question of who will buy this debt, I will say that it will be the normal placement of bonds on the financial markets, as Member States do, so they will probably buy investment funds, including retail investors, but I think it will be those entities that buy bonds like Member States' bonds to secure their capital. It is known that each major financial institution must build capital, etc. Government bonds or the European Union are the safest guarantee of this kind of capital. This is the most stable security. This is also the answer to the question, why, for example. Germany issues bonds with negative profitability, which means I have to pay more than I'm going to get on this bond, they're still buyers. It is precisely because it is the safest form of investment. So that as regards the fact that buyers of such securities from the European Commission will find themselves, I have absolutely no doubts, absolutely nothing. This also shows why this mechanism is beneficial for Poland. The interest and profitability of bonds issued by the European Commission on behalf of all Member States will be lower than as if the Republic of Poland had done on its own. So that we get even lower rates. Is that going to be a negative interest rate? I wouldn't be that optimistic, but I'm sure it'll be less than 1%. As far as the possibility of redemption of loans is concerned, at the moment, the European Commission is not saying anything about it, so that such a discussion does not take place.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u111	Thank you very much. Senator Jarosław Rusiecki from room 217 also has a question for Minister Patkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u112	Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stank: Mr. Senator, you can't be heard. Speak either closer to the microphone or to another microphone.]] Oh, I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal. Is that better? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: That's better.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, my question concerns the first sentence in the third paragraph proposed by the authors. It reads: "The authorities of the Republic of Poland undertake that the funds from this fund will be spent on the basis of the principles of fairness, transparency and the rule of law, guaranteeing equal treatment of entities interested in the implementation of projects. My question is: is there such a provision needed and is there no other control mechanisms in the ratification documents that would guarantee all these rules? What is the Minister's opinion on this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u113	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u114	Thank you. Of course, the High House will decide on this. The question is, what's going on here... This is where we enter into a legal discussion if it wouldn't be a typical superfluum statutory. In general, this opinion sets out the rules for public spending, which are already in force, both in EU legislation and in national legislation. I'm sorry, I don't have that opinion in front of my eyes, but I do remember that it talks about the principle of transparency, fairness and equal treatment. These rules are clearly defined. Both national and European services, led by OLAF, ensure that these principles are respected. It'd be superfluum legal for my legal eye, 'cause those regulations are here. Whether such a sentence in the preamble will be or not, on certain terms Mr. Senator here quoted these measures must be issued, otherwise... If a part of this House has doubts about the activities of national institutions, I will say that the European institutions will certainly draw attention to this too. There's a double check here. And very well, because I think she'll calm us all down.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u115	Thank you very much, Minister. One last question, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u116	Thank you very much. Minister, can you remind us how much Poland is currently paying contributions to the European Union, because with different... [[Voice from the room: It was just said.]] But as if the Minister would like to remind you exactly how much this contribution is currently...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u117	Minister, remind me again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u118	Honestly, I'm not gonna tell you exactly how much we're paying this year. Right here... [[That's right, it wasn't given.]] About 25 billion PLN this year we pay. [[I met with information about the amount of 28.5 billion, and I wanted to verify it. That's why I'm asking you.]] No. 25 billion zlotys this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u119	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Thank you.]] I am truly admired by the Minister's knowledge. It's rare here that everything is so clear. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: I am very pleased. Thank you.]] [[Applause]] I fired the Minister from his obligation to answer... Now... Is that a question for Minister Lorenzo? Senator Zdrojewski. The senator will tell you which minister you're addressing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u120	Thank you very much. Actually, I'm addressing two previous ministers. I must say that I am a patient person, but as so often the charges against the High Senate appear, that we are prolonging that we are causing unnecessary delay, that the Senate often leads to various delays, I would like to say immediately that our legislative initiatives lie in the Sejm for a year or more. And I have a question for both ministers: do you realize that the Senate has very limited maneuverability in terms of time? It's only four weeks, 30 days. So I have a question for you. Please state any matter, case, bill, normative act for which the Senate has taken its decision after this short period of time. That's the first question, then I'll have the second one.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u121	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u122	Mr. Senator, you're welcome. You received this bill on May 5th. Today is three weeks since this bill has not been ratified. Thanks to you, we are the last country to ratify thanks to the delay of 3 weeks. We owe it only to the Senate, only to the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u123	The Minister wants to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u124	I'll repeat the question. What is the matter with the High Senate that has gone beyond its legal terms?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u125	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u126	Mr. Senator, the thing is, today you're at the border. If there was a Senate meeting tomorrow, the whole EU would be waiting for a Polish decision. One day decides that, and you've had three weeks. If this isn't a delay... I'll leave the ratings to the viewers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u127	I see the senator isn't gonna get an answer. [[Yes.]] Thank you very much. Does anyone else have a question? Mr. Senator, do you have another one?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u128	Yes, I have a second question. It appeared today, just during this debate, that at 5:00 p.m., as I remember, there will be a meeting with representatives of the EU institutions and the government at this meeting with a trembling heart... that the government will have a problem explaining what this preamble is, which makes today the Senate, which procedure has been followed. So I have a question and a suggestion. Please invite to this meeting at 5 p.m. Senator Bogdan Klich, he will help you explain to the EU institutions what this preamble is. I would like to add immediately that, in my opinion, the representatives of the European Union will accept these explanations and welcome them, and with satisfaction, and with relief. Are you willing to use the help of the opposition senators? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u129	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u130	As I recall, we're talking about the meeting that Minister Buda was talking about. If the senator thinks it is a matter of pride to present to the European Commission how the Senate violates the Polish constitution and the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, it is indeed a justification for the presence of the senator. I leave to assess the discomfort of Senator Klich in this situation when he is asked about procedural issues, about delaying this for 3 weeks, about the question of breaches of judgments and several articles of the Constitution as a result of the introduction of this particular recital. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Minister.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u131	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Senator Zdrojewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u132	The Minister's side was accused very seriously that the Senate is breaking the constitution. Please indicate an article in the Constitution that the Senate is breaking today.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u133	You're welcome, Senator: Art. 146 Constitution of the Republic of Poland, Art. 121 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u134	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Questions for you as a representative of the Ministry, which I will be asking in a moment, are probably the most capable of answering. Because here we are dealing with such a process that the Senate is trying to supplement, regardless of the expertise, regardless of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, a relatively simple text of the law authorising ratification of the preamble. We have already come to the conclusion that this preamble from the logical, I would say, to the point of view, cannot contain the normative provisions, and this preamble unfortunately contains them. Perhaps the authors of this recital are unaware of what it may threaten. Because this preamble will be published as if outside, i.e. it is directed outside Poland, it concerns international matters, it is not addressed only to the inside. The question is this: what may be the consequences of the provisions which are currently in the text of this recital from the point of view of international law? I am not just talking about delaying this whole ratification act, but about the fact that there are commitments in this text. They are aimed at, I would say, the internal market, these are obligations concerning another matter, because the matter of spending money, not the matter of collecting it, which this law is talking about, and actually the decision on the system of own resources, but it will be found in the text. Probably none of the countries will have such a text, and one Poland will stand out. Well, that's the mom of the opposition, okay, we'll be glowing our eyes behind the Senate if it passes. The question is: what could be the international impact of this recital, which I believe is aimed at the internal market?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u136	Thank you very much, Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u137	First of all, I would like to highlight the two points mentioned in Senator Klich's speech, or actually not in Senator Klich's speech, in response to the senator's question. First of all, this expert study only referred to whether the preamble was admissible at all, but did not refer in any way to the content proposed by the applicants. Secondly, indeed, the Senate's Legislative Office said that the preamble was admissible, but it was negative at the committee meeting for the amendment tabled by Senator Klich, just raising the arguments I mentioned. Therefore, in relation to what I have also said, to the question of the violation of the Constitution by the adoption of this preamble, a number of judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal will be infringed, both as regards the overrun of the permissible framework for amendments by the Senate, and as regards the inclusion of such, rather than any other content of the preamble in the document, a question arises about the constitutionality of the ratification act. Because, in my opinion, if an entity were interested in submitting this law to the Constitutional Tribunal, if this amendment had been adopted, the law could have been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Tribunal. Given, for example, the caselaw that I cited, which I quoted... And then the Court will have to answer the question whether this means that this law does not apply, as it is unconstitutional. Because if you want to use the formal runway, you've done something even worse, paradoxically making things worse. Because if you were to assume that you would have introduced provisions in the form of articles, then the Constitutional Tribunal could have said: the article in question is no longer in force. But you don't do that. Consequently, the Constitutional Tribunal will not be able to say: the article in question is repealed. He'll be able to say that the bill is losing power. Of course, it is a matter of the Court's decision. However, as I have quoted here, the Constitutional Tribunal in its explanatory memorandum even in 2008 said that, in the light of the Court's previous judicial practice, such a preamble is unacceptable. So we have a judicial practice that the Constitutional Tribunal itself mentions. Well, then the question arises: how do we explain to our foreign partners that because of the amendment that was supposed to save the wrong vote of one of the parties in the Sejm, the entire act ratifying the EU budget in Poland can be challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u138	Thank you, Minister. I have a brief question for you. Since you have an opinion that the amendment incorporated in this law or the preamble is unconstitutional, do you intend to urge the government to send this law to the Court of Przyłębska? [[Voice from the Chamber: What tribunal?]] The Constitutional Court, headed by Mrs Przyłębska. Are you going to urge the government to send this bill to the Court? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: Can I do it now?]] Yeah, yeah. Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I hope that you, as a long-standing senator, as a long-standing marshal, and you senators in the vote, will not allow such a situation that you will maintain common sense that, since you are talking about the observance of the Constitution, you are talking about the execution of the judgments of the Constitutional Court, this is how you will behave in the vote and this amendment in the form of a preamble which is unconstitutional, in my opinion, you will simply reject, and that there will therefore be no such problem. Thank you very much. [[Minister, I'm asking what's going to happen if there's a problem.]] Of course not, because it's... That's a rhetorical question. Mr. Senator, the marshal knows I'm not gonna do this. The point is whether the state, voting and here I appeal to all senators You want to lead to a situation where you vote in a non-constitutional way, you make non-constitutional amendments. Since you name yourselves defenders of democracy and constitution, you speak of yourselves as a majority of democracy, then act democratically, vote democratically, do not break the Constitution and Constitutional Court's judgments, reject the amendment, the preamble, which is incompatible and with the Constitution, and with the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is my hot appeal to all the senators. Don't look at the party orders, and follow the law and common sense. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u140	Thank you. Is there anyone else? Senator Jerzy Wcisla is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u141	Minister, you accused the Senate of breaking the constitution in an article. 121, which allows the Senate to process the laws passed by the Sejm within 30 days. The bill we're investigating reached the Senate on May 5th, and today is May 27th. So tell me, how many days is this between May 5th and May 27th? And how We're breaking art. 121?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u142	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u143	In such a way that this amendment, which you are proposing, is contrary to Article. Paragraph 121. 2nd Constitution, which says not that you can bring the preamble to the Constitution, but about the legislative procedure. Isn't that right, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u144	He's talking about 30 days. Between May 5th and May 27th, or today, 22 days have passed. So how do these 22 days mean that we're going to exceed the 30-day deadline that we have for the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u145	Thank you, Senator. If you want...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u146	Mr. Senator, I have the impression that you weren't exactly listening to what I was saying. I have spoken of a violation of the Constitution on the subject of the preamble that you are proposing, not on the matter of exceeding the deadline. [[But it's art. 121 doesn't talk about the preamble.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u147	Good. Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: Thank you very much.]] I don't think it's that article. But, Minister, Senator Czerwiński would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u148	That's the last question, Minister, I promise, but it's important to me. Let us suppose that the majority of the Senate will, however, be immune to these voices of reason and attempts to explain the obvious. It's the hardest thing to explain, yeah, I'd call it, tautologies, but it's hard. And this preamble will, of course, be introduced as an amendment to the text of the law that will return to the Sejm. I hope that the Sejm will behave accordingly, but in theory it is possible, unfortunately, that the Sejm will not reject this amendment by an absolute majority. And then such a law, i.e. With this preamble, he'll end up on the president's desk. And then, like any law, it can be examined by your President, e.g. under the preliminary examination of the constitutionality of the law, such a preventive examination at the Constitutional Court. And here's where the president's gonna have it. Although I'm telling you, it's just a theory. This is a problem: either the correct text of the bill, or 2 articles and as soon as possible ratification, because the President is also responsible for ratification, or, unfortunately, putting it off in time and sending the bill to heal it. It's in quotes. The Constitutional Tribunal. Minister, do you really have the content that is contained in this preamble? Which, as I say, are either obvious, or remain out of the scope of the ratification act at all, are so revealing that you simply have to put the legislative process at risk, especially since we are already at its end, I say this in a European way, and you have to put yourself at risk of dragging it, God forbid, two months or three months if we do this here in the Senate?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u149	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u150	I'm sorry, but I don't feel competent to answer on behalf of the President's office.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u151	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! There's a Polish saying: the devil is dressed in an ornat and his tail is ringing at Mass. And this applies to all the representatives of the ruling majority present in this Chamber. Unfortunately, we are witnessing a great propaganda operation of lying to the facts. And, unfortunately, government officials are also involved in this operation. I must say that government representatives have risen to the Himalayas of hypocrisy today. Or maybe the other way around, they fell into the Mariana's Ditch of hypocrisy. 'Cause there's been no such hypocrisy in this room for a long time. Because what's going on? These are those who have repeatedly broken the constitution over the past few years who have invoked the constitution. Those from the Constitutional Tribunal who have made a mockery of the Supreme Constitutional Court refer to the authority of the so-called. Julia Przyłębska Court. Those who say that it is necessary to comply with the rule of law violate the rule of law at every turn. Come on, tell the Marianan hypocrisy. Why are you doing this? I'm going to play a little bit of Minister Buda, who dared to speak here in this Chamber about the fact that the representatives in the majority of the Senate, the Civic Coalition, are trying to introduce the preamble to the text of the ratification act, that they have some party intentions, that they are doing some orders from the party headquarters. Well, those are the words I have to say, I haven't heard in a long time. But I wondered where they came from. This is how government officials try to justify why they were three months late in this room. Because it was three months ago that you were supposed to be in this room, three months ago the Senate should have ratified this bill, three months ago it should have passed through the Sejm and it should have been filed by the government in parliament. Why didn't it happen? Let the Foreign Minister himself answer that question. Minister Rau in December last year, immediately after the final findings had been reached, the Council took a decision on 14 December, in which he said that the European Commission had first to meet its commitments and that ratification could only be expected. And here's the quote: "This must happen after these guidelines have been established for the Conditionality Regulation." And then, first, the guidelines, then the so-called guidelines. ratification. What does that mean? And what does that mean? At that time, in December you wanted to knock out the teeth of the conditionality regulation to knock out the teeth of the European Commission and so that the European Commission did not have the tools to defend the rule of law spending the Fund for Reconstruction. This was what it was all about at the beginning, and that is why at the beginning the government was so slow to ratify the Fund for Reconstruction. Indeed, it was only when the European Commission decided to wait until the guidelines for the Conditional Regulation were issued that you were in favour of ratification. But then it turned out that one of the coalition partners had a completely different opinion than the other two, so there was a delay again. You wasted your time until April 27th. You lost February, March, April. These are the three months of delay which the Poles will not forgive you, and which they owe to actually particular political games in the camp of the United Right. Because it was about internal party games, and it was about guaranteeing yourself impunity, if, God forbid, there was an improper spending of funds from the Fund for Reconstruction, which Poles deserved. So the ministers were three months late. And don't try to cover your delay with accusations against the Senate at the moment that he's considering this bill at the right time. We did the work for you, we did the big job. It was your duty, before sending the first National Reconstruction Plan to Brussels on 26 February, to consult. Did you do it? You didn't do anything, there was no consultation before the twenty-sixth. The first materials from local governments started to flow to you in July and August last year. What were you doing between July, August last year and February 26th? It was your duty to consult. You didn't drive any. And then you started, you just started making presentations at PowerPoint, which you called consultation. And only a few weeks later, under the influence of social pressure, you organized the first consultation and started talking to the stakeholders. Is there a greater paradox than sending, supposedly consulted, the National Plan for Reconstruction to Brussels on 26 February without consulting anyone, and then pretending that it is being consulted while it is being presented, and then starting under pressure, under pressure from social consultation, which is not yet completed? And the plan, as you say, is final in Brussels because it was sent on April 30th. However, yesterday's talks with local government officials have not reached a final conclusion and will continue. The consultation is unfinished, and you dare say that the Senate is extending its work on the ratification bill? On 26 February, when I was writing an article on what you were afraid of, without presenting the ratification bill, you just sent the National Reconstruction Plan, but 19 other countries were able to prepare their national reconstruction plans and send them to Brussels on 26 February, and you could not. Because you can't really do much, because you really can do propaganda like this and carry out the propaganda operations you've been doing here in the Senate for a long time. If this is how you fight this preamble, then you have to ask what you're really afraid of in it. What's the PiS afraid of in this preamble? So far, I have not heard any substantive arguments at either committee meetings or in the plenary room, except maybe on the follow-up committee. But I think you're just afraid of the rules that are included in this preamble. I am convinced that you are afraid of justice, transparency and the rule of law, that these are the principles with which you are on the bakier, because as far as justice is concerned about equality of access, you have repeatedly shown that you have these principles deep in your nose, that you ignore them ostensibly, that you show Poles who are in charge here, and that those who rule have the right to disregard these fundamental principles of the European Community, and that the Euro-Atlantic community also, because these principles are not only written down in the hearts of Europeans, but also respected in the United States, Canada and other non-European countries which respect democracy based on freedom and principles. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] And I have this feeling... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator...]] ...that you also underestimate supervision... These are the last sentences, Mrs. Marshal. I won't speak again. I guess. ...that you also ignore social supervision over spending money because you want to give it away when you think about it, because you want to distribute it according to your own party interests, and that you're only interested in not having any restrictions. Meanwhile, we say this from the very beginning: this money belongs to Poles, and therefore ratification must be carried out. But at the same time we say: this money should be spent honestly. And that's where the preamble comes from. For everyone to know that this is the position of the Senate, which, fortunately, has a chance to defend the rules for some time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u153	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u154	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ratification shall be governed by the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the Rules of Procedure of the Senate by the same laws as the adoption of other laws. There's no other path to ratification than the statutory path. If this is the case And that's the way it is. This can be tabled on the same basis as for other laws. Amendments were tabled in the Sejm. And your marshal has allowed these amendments to be voted on, which is that he thought that amendments could be tabled. They were rejected by the PiS majority, but there were votes in the Sejm. Our rules on this matter are the same. So if you can in the Seym, why can't you in the Senate? I know what the difference is, but that is why we are proposing a preamble, an amendment in the form of a recital, and we are not directly proposing amendments to this law. Why are we reporting the preamble? Well, that didn't just happen. This was not without reason, although this preamble repeats the obvious issues which are also enshrined in the Treaties with the Union, as is the fact that the fund will be spent, that this money from the Union will be spent on the principles of fairness, transparency, the rule of law and equal treatment of all actors. Why are we repeating this? Because the Law and Justice have to repeat these principles, it would seem obvious, enshrined in the Treaties, because you do not apply these principles. And that's the main reason for the preamble. That you broke those rules. Fund for local initiatives, second and third editions. Public money for voivodship and other local governments was divided so that 36 million went through those voivodship local governments where PiS did not rule, and 300 million went where PiS ruled. Well, the ratio's about 1:8. So if you're raising a recital, then I'm saying why there's a proposal to add this recital to the ratification bill. Indeed, in previous ratifications there were no such records, but at the moment the situation is completely different. This is huge money, and we have completely lost confidence in the PiS government, as have a large proportion of local governments. Preamble. Were there such situations when the recitals were introduced? This preamble is an obligation of the government, the Polish government to introduce such rules... Not the European Union, but the Polish government, above all. And we write here that the authorities of the Republic of Poland commit themselves to... If you think that this preamble in part goes beyond constitutional possibilities, then why didn't you file a motion for the removal of this passage on which you raised this charge? You didn't bring it up, but the minority senator proposed to delete this recital at all. It shows what the intentions are. It's not that it goes beyond... that it violates constitutional principles. The point is that these are the rules you probably don't want to follow. Many times here, when there were allegations that something was unconstitutional, the PiS-owska majority voted without looking at any objections. She voted, passed the laws, when she was a majority, also in the Senate. This preamble is related to Polish specificity. Why isn't there such a recital somewhere else? Because this preamble is related to the Polish specifics I was talking about. Such a preamble could also be adopted in Hungary, but there is no possibility there, Fidesz with an ally has such an advantage that there is no chance of it. And they didn't. We are trying legally to direct this ratification towards principles that we consider to be very important. And what was the issue of ratification and reservations when ratifying elsewhere? Poland expressed its reservations in the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and was included in the ratification of the reservation. Germany also raised a reservation by introducing a transitional period for access to the German labour market for Poles. These things happen, and of course these things happen. And yet, is ratification... ratification isn't a raise of hands because we've negotiated something. Besides, PiS, who said that the Union is imposing something on us that the Union is the second Moscow, in this case it says: well, no, we cannot impose anything, we cannot speak on ratification. Surprising is this change of opinion. And in the end, the Senate's authority. I've heard here that the Senators of the PiS are defending the authority of the Senate. Are those who rush the Senate to defend him, and not just in this case? Do you remember any more covid laws? Complicated, big laws, where we heard: well, is the Senate wondering? He should be voting the next day. We heard it here, too. After the bill was passed in the Sejm on the same day I heard from the politicians of PiS, as well as the Prime Minister: The Senate should deal with this tomorrow. I'm the one who says, "Maybe today, yes, right now." If someone outside the Senate says that, well, I understand, of course, he has the right, there's a political game. But if that's what the senators say and say they're defending the Senate's authority this way, then something's not right. This is hypocrisy. I also hear now that Minister Wawrzyk said that, well, about the President... when, like, to speed up ratification, signature, it would... That the Minister will not speak here. Can the Senate be rushing? With regard to the Senate, it is possible to make such a request, and with respect to another institution, i.e. the President, cannot such a request be made? If that is the way you treat the Senate, then other authorities, other actors, who are involved in ratification, must be treated equally. Ratification is subject in Parliament to the same rules as the adoption of other laws, and if someone does not understand it, they will be read by the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the Senate. There is no separate path to ratifying international agreements. I think we need to focus on this one. Of course, I will vote in favour of ratification, but I will vote in favour of ratification with this preamble, because then I have a guarantee that no one can fool Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start with an important statement, namely that these 770 billions are money, which is a aftermath of a tragedy, a terrible tragedy that actually affected humanity, also affected Poles, decimated them. Unfortunately, the number of deaths caused by the epidemic has caused us to be the country with the highest mortality rate in Europe. This is a very ungrateful result, which shows how tragic the fight against the coronavirus is, and it is still under way, and what has happened to the health of society, what has happened to epidemiology and what has happened to the economy. Undoubtedly, the most important challenge now is to rebuild not only the health system, but also the recovery of health. All indicators have fallen and we are now far from the European average, let alone that the indicators should be improved. Therefore, when it comes to the money that is in the Fund for Reconstruction, the most important envelope should be given to health care, but above all to the recovery of society's health. This is the most important challenge and the most important message that we should bear in mind, when we talk about EU funds, about those billboards that we see every day, with the inscription "770 billion," where only the words from the European Union are missing. There was talk of a delay. I personally believe that thanks to the fact that there have been meetings, hearings, conferences and committee meetings, we have heard many important arguments, many voices that have helped us to further clarify the main objectives we want to achieve. Because we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the distribution of money, but we are not talking about what we want to spend this money on to save the health of society and to rebuild the health system. It's a challenge. It's a strategy. When the Minister says there's a delay in spending, in finance, I ask: and where's the strategy? Where are the long-distance targets? Where is the agreed plan for this reconstruction? We haven't talked about it yet. What you have proposed, these few chapters on infrastructure, information technology, human resources, innovation, medicines. Yes, full agreement, these are probably directional actions that should build a common strategy to improve indicators. But we don't have that strategy. All these directional actions and the distribution of these measures are, you can say, accidental. Because the equipment itself, the infrastructure itself, the buildings themselves will not improve this system. Finally, please understand that the organisation of the system itself will not change much either. We need to talk about a much broader concept, namely the reconstruction of public health, and this is a much broader theme. One of the most important points that have been raised during our debates is the matter of human resources. We hoped that after these debates and public hearings, when we made it clear that without staff there would be absolutely no improvement and reconstruction of the whole system, there would be some changes. However, there is still a penny of money devoted only to medical training. It's definitely not enough. The doctors, and not only the doctors, but also the workers who are employed in health care, are tired, are overloaded, are tired physically and mentally and clearly say that they will not be able to continue to work this way, they will not draw it away, they need support. The training of doctors, the training of students is fine, it is necessary, because the influx of new forces is absolutely necessary. But if we don't provide development paths if we don't help the medics with other jobs that the representatives will help them work in this difficult situation, we'll really find ourselves in a very bad position. And it's a pity that the ministry doesn't see it in broad terms, it only sees education through universities. Another issue is an innovative idea, currently made by the Ministry of Health, namely the division of these funds into infrastructure: from 9 billion 3 billion to county hospitals. I'm not against hospitals, but this is the moment to finally reverse this whole treatment process and redirect it to pre-hospital treatment. If we're gonna rebuild something, let's rebuild it the way it's supposed to. So it's not just hospital treatment, because hospital treatment is the most expensive, but building a whole support system for a family doctor, for specialists, so that the patient can be quickly diagnosed so that every day he can seek specialist advice and thus probably avoid many unnecessary hospital stays. So the assumptions, in general... Yes, we agree, these are important directions: innovation, just as important medicines. It's very important. Only that when the pharmaceutical industry asks whether innovation in drugs, vaccine production, production of API will be financed from a loan pool or a grant... Well, the Ministry of Health hasn't been able to answer yet. So how is this industry supposed to prepare for this? As long as there's no drug policy until there's clear priorities... Well, the pharmaceutical industry is also unfortunately doing the coke backwards and unable to prepare for the proper production of specifics data. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is one more important element that I would like to mention here. We are talking here about funds from the Fund for Reconstruction, measures which, due to the epidemic, are absolutely directed towards the reconstruction of the system. But note that at the same time there is another program, namely Polish Load. Here, too, certain goals and tasks are set. And as for the direction we can be agreeable, but when it comes to implementation, about the shape of implementation, we will certainly say very loudly that this is a bad idea. Centralization. In every bill, in every new idea, centralization appears. And if we collide these two facts now, we're gonna have this situation: we're gonna get money from everywhere we can. From the Union, with an increased contribution, which is a proposal here But we'll share as we want, and we'll only share centrally. Do you remember this system? Because I remember when Warsaw dictated what to buy for the hospital. And we have very big reservations about that. That is why, during the debates, we stressed that the discussion on the allocation of funds is one thing, but the most important thing is what we are going to do, what we want to achieve by spending it. Therefore, we very strongly urge that this trend be found in the strategy under preparation for the implementation law, that we look at the system widely, that we look at how to improve health indicators by improving or even building public health. There's a lot of methods, and I don't want to get attached to certain offices or areas... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] [[Senator, time.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. Only two sentences. However, I would ask that we look very widely at this. And one such aspect of public health is to rebuild the whole support system for infectious diseases, to support epidemiology, not only as far as Coronavirus is concerned, not only as far as this epidemic is concerned. It is also about preparing for further challenges, possible epidemics or cataclysms. And I appeal very strongly for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u157	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u158	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! Dear Marshal, High Senate! Today we are sitting in our Senate on a very, very important law which sets the Republic for years. So often we say Marshall's plan because my generation missed Marshall's plan, and today we have a huge chance. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we need to answer questions about how we're gonna steer. this money stream, how much are we prepared for, and how much will our science try to get closer in technology to the Western countries? We talk so much about innovation and technology, but we're just talking. I mean, really. I am not saying that in the last 6 years, we are generally a country of most services for Europe. I am talking about this in a bitter way, because much has been said, that Poland must be a country that will come closer to Western technology, and that a chance like we have today has never had our country. And that's why we're so worried. But I'm glad there's this debate in the Senate, a serious discussion. There's no subtext here. Everyone's worried about the money being spent properly. Is the situation in our country predictable? I'm gonna say awfully, unfortunately, yes, but not in the sense that everyone would like to see, as I'm going to say, is substantive. I will follow the example of the Government Local Investment Fund. This is a great example that follows us... Because the way the current government distributes public funds has shown a strange political economy. I ask myself: what may be the strange political economic situation in the allocation of funds? When allocating funds, they are to receive funds from all those who create good, and that is not decided by the officials. For example, 8 local governments of voivodships ruled by the opposition received a total of PLN 35.9 million, while 8 local governments of voivodships in which PiS is governed or co-governmentd were supported by the attention It's almost 300 million. Or let's look at it a little differently. The funds received by all local authorities per capita will be: in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship - PLN 231, in Podlaskie - PLN 155, in Lublin - PLN 149. What is the link between these regions? Yeah, he runs the PiS. Compare: in Wielkopolska these measures were 76 zł, in my, i.e. Lubuskie, 83 zł, in Opole region 89 zł. What is the link between these regions? He's not in charge of the PiS. And don't tell me that apparently some of them made better proposals, and others made worse ones because that's not true. I was vice-president of the Sejm, and I know how the applications were submitted. We used to be number one in our country. This is not possible, given the forms on which the description of complex investment projects is provided, if you add up all the boxes, and I had it in my hand, about 2 pages of the text. No published forms, no grades talking about something, too. Anyone who even has an elementary idea of getting a grant for an investment really knows what I'm talking about. These are the things that are needed to erase those who are applying for funds, and are not so-called. It's ours. This is why today, in the Senate, the question arises: what is the guarantee that the funds of the National Reconstruction Plan will not be shared in the same unpredictable way as the funds of the Government Local Investment Fund? That's why it's not in other countries. Because there is faith and there is no such division. The National Reconstruction Plan is not only about loans or grants, let us remember that, it is also the reforms announced. Many of them are to be carried out with the participation or hands of local authorities. A good example is the reform of planning and spatial planning. In KPO there are even indicated specific forms of aid for local authorities. And that's a fact. Among other things, this is provided here. $100,000 per municipality to draw up general plans. This is about 175 million on a national scale, designed to develop new development strategies for 60% of municipalities and 700 municipal regeneration programmes. Please answer me: how the obligations imposed on local governments are to be fulfilled with rather symbolic support and since according to government plans announced under the so-called. The new government governance will lose between 10 million and 11 million a year on changes in PIT? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I recommend the adoption of this law extended to the preamble in the proposed wording. It follows, ladies and gentlemen, from what I just said: we do not believe that these measures will go where the whole society expects. And it's not a sign of any kind of obstruction. Nor is this, in my opinion, an optimal solution, as this would be the implementation of the National Reconstruction Plan under the principles described in the Law on the Cohesion and Development Agency. This is, in my opinion, a kind of minimum programme, but above all, it is a clear signal for our partners across the country and in Brussels. Therefore, it is so important to oblige the authorities of the Republic of Poland to distribute funds from the Fund based on the principles of justice, transparency and the rule of law. I don't want to further develop it, my predecessors have made it clear here. Ladies and gentlemen, the preamble to the Act stating that a Monitoring Committee will be set up, which will supervise the implementation of projects and the spending of funds under the National Plan for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity, is not really revolutionary. On the one hand, it sends a clear signal to the European Commission and on the other hand to our beloved Poles. A vision and a future. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I will say that I once had the opportunity and pleasure to carry out an energy investment. The investment was... the financial scope was 800 million PLN. 800 million zlotys. And of this 680 million PLN was the technology delivered by those countries, which we spit very often, and less than 120 million were so-called. basic robots. And it's my dream to get out of this program in a little while... i.e. that it be the other way around; that is what we should all wish for. And anyone who turns a dollar into a stupid investment should be accounted for by the D.A. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u159	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If the Polish state and the Polish government were led by law-abiding, credible and pro-European people, no preamble would be needed. If the Polish government were led by truthful, law-abiding and pro-European people, there would not be a row at all in the Polish parliament relating to the ratification of this pact. The fight in the Polish Parliament, Dear State, came from the fact that the agreement to ratify the money for Poles did not want to give first a significant part of the Council of Ministers of Matthew Morawiecki. The reason for the resistance of part of the United Right against this pact was negotiated in Brussels, the provision of money for the rule of law, the provision which the European Union introduced only because it does not treat the Polish government as a reliable government in pro-European politics and does not treat it as a government of law. The European Union hears that on the one hand the government of Mateusz Morawiecki already hangs billboards with 770 billion, but on the other hand the Minister of National Education from this government announces that Polish children will learn about how illegal the European Union is. [[Talking in the O.R.]] On the other hand, the European Union hears that the Minister of National Education of the Government of Mateusz Morawiecki compares the European Union to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Everyone in Poland and everyone in Europe knows that Polish patriots did not push for every next term of the Council of the Supreme Soviet Union, and are enthusiastically taking part in elections to the European Parliament. I understand that even this difference doesn't come out to Mr. Black, but it does to everyone else. And in Europe they know exactly what the government rules Poland A government that wants to teach that the European Union is illegal. And that's where it's from. Because of the tension inside the camp so-called. United Right and directly as a result of tensions within the government of Mateusz Morawiecki The delay in the ratification process and the need for the Senate to introduce a recital, which aims to answer the basic questions facing these Poles today, who are wondering whether money from the European Union will reach them. What is the only reason today why money to millions of Poles, Polish local governments, to all those institutions that need it, will not be found? There's only one reason why this can happen. This is the principle of money for the rule of law mentioned by me. If the Government of Law and Justice continues the policy which we see culminating in the dispute with the Czech Republic about Turin, if it continues its policy of ignoring the judgments of European tribunals, if it continues its policy of defining the rule of law in its own way... Under this definition, the European Union, according to Minister Czarnek, is illegal, but the failure to publish decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal is a rule of law. Well, as long as such a policy in the Polish country is conducted as long as the rule of Polish governments rests in the hands of unbelievable, illegal and anti-European people, the money from the European Union will be threatened. Our duty as Senate, within the scope of the possibilities that the Constitution gives us, and this possibility is to include in this recital law and express our opinion... We have a duty to exercise that right. We all, as we sit here, senators of the democratic majority, would be happy if we didn't have to enter this recital, if we had a minister of national education who doesn't compare the European Union, which gives Poland 770 million, what you boast about at billboards, the Soviet Union... [[Billions.]] Billions. ... If we had a Minister of National Education who wouldn't say that the European Union is illegal, if we didn't have a leader in the governing party who, from the Seym tribune, talks about his fellow citizens that some of them are I quote: A worse sort, if we didn't have people who made the anti-European policy a banner, and if we didn't have to fear that the government of law and justice would lose that money. That's what we're doing, the Senate, activity. We must completely reject the suggestions that what we are doing is contrary to the Polish state's right. If you consider this to be a measure of loyalty to the Polish state, then I ask you one question: why do you tolerate in the minister's government, which is against this pact, which voted against this pact in the Council of Ministers and in the Sejm? You tolerate him, so you cannot accuse us of asking you questions, wanting to clarify all this and providing Poles with money that you can lose, just as you are losing Polish money in Turów today, because you were unable to handle the matter with the Czech Republic, because you were engaged in fighting abortion in the Czech Senate, not fighting for Polish jobs... [[The voice from the hall: Catholic says that?]] Yes. First of all, I'm Polish. If you believe that it is the duty of Polish diplomats to fight abortion in the Czech Republic, then we are fundamentally different. I believe that it is the duty of Matthew Morawiecki not to evangelize Europe, but to provide money for Poles. It's just that. Today, the measure of your policy is that we are witnessing an embarrassing exchange in which the Polish Prime Minister says that the Czech Prime Minister has promised him something and the Czech Prime Minister denies it three times. And there are still tens of thousands of Poles who are uncertain about the fate of the mine in Turów, because you have such a policy rather than another one. And that's why we need the Senate, and that's why we need our votes. We These votes in favour of ratifying of course we will, because we want this money for Poles, we want this money for Poland, but we also want the government of Law and Justice not to throw away this huge opportunity, which is Poland's place in Europe. And that is what this government is consistently doing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u161	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Mark Knocks.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! When I listen to this extremely flowery tirade of the Senators of the majority, it reminds me of such an autoironic statement by Julian Tuwim, who said: I have such talent that I could poems like Mickiewicz, like Slovak writing, only poverty is one, because I have nothing to say. Julian Tuwima could afford such irony, even though he was an outstanding poet. You can't afford irony, you don't have any distance to each other. And this debate from the very beginning, 22 days in the Senate, it's just a theater, a cabaret. I'm not afraid to even say I'm a circus. You're standing on lost positions on the constitutional and legal side. There's not a single argument for defending the legality and legality of the constitution you're trying to force through in the Senate. It is clear that this preamble is not in line with the constitution. There's not a single ratification. Of the twenty-five at this point in time in the Member States already ratified It's all right. It's all right. It's okay, There has not been a single example since 1997 in the Polish constitutional system of ratification with the amendment. This is contradicted by the constitution, contradicted by parliamentary practice, contradicted by international custom. You are breaking the basic rule of the Senate in the legislative process, crossing the limits of the Parliamentary submission. But it doesn't make any impression on you. This has one very important political and educational aspect, which Poles see at the moment. Well, for the last five years, you've been repeating the word "constitution" as a mantra and accusing the governments of the United Rights of permanent violation of the Constitution. You charge every opportunity, you don't leave dry thread on very many of our laws. Meanwhile, here you are just extreme hypocrites, hypocrites. And I hope so. I believe in it deeply that Poles see it. We also see it, and we will never again be concerned simply with your false, hypocritical concern for the constitution, because here you simply break the impudent and hypocritical constitution completely directly. For what purpose? What will really come out of this whole debate, a debate that is not about from the beginning to the end? You use the legal opinions of senate experts, which are also not on the subject. Because it is not clear from the government's representatives here that this opinion refers to the possibility of amending the international agreement. We are not dealing with an international agreement here, but we are dealing with a decision of the Council of the European Union, which is part of European secondary law. So the rights, which, at very many levels, in very detail, have already been negotiated by the governments of individual Member States on a unanimous basis. And it is only up to national parliaments to agree by ratifying the implementation of these instruments in their national order. It has been said many times that it is not really known who the preamble is addressed to. But these are, in fact, secondary arguments. It's just this recital. It can't be here, because it doesn't refer to ratification, it refers to the National Reconstruction Plan. And here you are once again showing your hypocrisy, because at a time when, for several months at very many levels, the National Reconstruction Plan was consulted, 5.5 thousand different stakeholders, entrepreneurs, local authorities, politicians, ordinary citizens, representatives of many different political environments, not only those of Parliament, but also of non-parliamentarians, you did not want to participate. Few of this, in the Senate, was also carried out a form of this consultation, there was a special seminar meeting of the Economic Committee, convened by Marshal Maria Koc, with the participation of Minister Buda, and then there was also no great interest of the senators of the majority. There was not a single constructive proposal for an amendment or any change in the National Plan for Reconstruction. It was a few hours festival of criticism of the rule of the United Right from 2015 to 2021. Populism, demagogy, unilateral, portrayed images of our governments and Poland in Europe and in the world. Well, I'm just embarrassed. I am ashamed of the Senate because I am already the second senator, I have the great honour of being the second vice-marshal of the Senate, and the state is simply discrediting the Higher Chamber, the Higher Chamber, while having a mouth full of clichés of seriousness, responsibility, care for Poland, for Europe. All political responsibility for possible, difficult at this moment to predict the perturbations associated with the adoption of this ratification with the amendment, if, God forbid, we will not be able to reject this recital in the Seym tomorrow... I, of course, deeply believe that this will work. But the whole responsibility for this huge risk, for this problem, which can happen, for example. to start the whole ratification process in Europe from the beginning... Because if it turns out that 26 countries will have ratification without amendment, and Poland ratifys it with an amendment, then there will be a serious question about the identity of the ratified documents. So you're really having a really ugly time, and you're taking a huge international risk as well. I would very much like you to meet this promise you made three weeks ago that there will be some multi-level, multi-stage, in-depth public consultation here in the Senate. There was no such consultation. Well, if Marta Lempart is to be a representative of this environment, which is valid here to consult on the National Plan for Reconstruction, then I really think it's a misunderstanding. She said six times, yes, six times she didn't trust the minister of piss. And that was her whole statement. Go to your citizens, to your constituents in one-mandate electoral districts, and try to explain to them why you are putting Poland at such a great risk that it may turn out that through your fun, your vanity, your ego, your political pride, all this great Fund for Reconstruction will be delayed for months. This really is a great risk, great irresponsibleness and great despekt for the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Of course, I firmly believe that tomorrow, most of the Seym, most of the United Right, will defend this project and reject this preamble. But there's still time to reflect. You put it on the agenda. We didn't protest. A resolution, an opinion. And in this document they could be as much as possible. In fact, they're part of it. All the elements that you have placed in this preamble. What's the preamble for? It can still be withdrawn and all these arguments can be taken into account in the Senate's opinion, where you can exploit yourself literaryly, politically, substantively, but this is a document on sole responsibility and on account of the Senate, of an opinion-making nature, not of a normative nature. I am also asking you to withdraw from this recital so that we can act as we need, accept this document without amendments, put it on the president's desk and start an unprecedented programme to rebuild Europe's economy after the pandemic. Poles are waiting for such decisions of the Senate of the Republic of Poland and the whole of Europe is waiting for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u163	Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Breja.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! High Senate! Without a doubt, this fund is needed in Poland, even though it is contested and voted against in the Seym by PiS Members. You have a problem with convincing your colleagues to do so. You guys were against it, some of you were against it. More, the Minister of Justice wanted to take the floor and inform the public, the Poles about a very important thing in his view, the threat of sovereignty, and the marshal, and it was your marshal, your minister, that did not allow this information to be submitted. More, then your fellow Members went out to the conference and said that those who voted against voted against voted against Poland. So you are throwing each other a very serious accusation of voting against Poland. But I will tell you what is most important in this debate. This money from the European Union, the money from the Fund for Reconstruction, which is indeed the second flywheel of Marshall's plan, is not an abstract amount, billions, millions, thousands that go somewhere. And the country's first test, the solidarity test referred to in the necessary preamble, you failed. You failed this test, split the money from the government's local investment fund. No one in the history of the Third Republic of the government has shared funds as unfairly as you. No one has so divided Poles into those who have the party sign of PiS or PiS support, and those who voted against PiS from their own beliefs. I will remind you, when the coalition of the Civic Platform and PSL was run by anyone from the Civic Platform or from the PSL it did not come to mind, that creating eagles the program was created throughout Poland, deciding whether the eagle would be in the east or in the west, looking at whether the ghetto, mayor, starosta is one or another. You did it, you divided the Poles. And when I hear from a marshal about the theater, about the opposition doing the theater... No. We are talking about solidarity and we are talking about the fact that people, people and their needs are behind these measures in the field, in local Poland, both in the east and in the west. Solidarity referred to in this preamble is a solidarity, fair division for all Poles, not cutting investment. Because what did it look like in practice? The cut-out investment, lighting and Sewerage in Barcina, in Kujawsko-Pomorskie. Do sewer pipes, street lights have a party color? Do the residents who use the road in Barcina, from the street, from the sewers, wear the party sign? Rogovo, Zninski district, road in brickworks Cut; Janikovo, modernization of the sports centre of Kormoran, blocked measures. Also lighting Janikov... Well, are people wearing any sign, stamps, PiS or anti-PiS? Do these lamps, these infrastructure that is designed to serve both younger and older, have any colors? This is abstraction. Inowroclaw, outdoor swimming pool Blocked; gym at school no. 15 block; communal flats, ul. Storage It's cut out. Grudziądz, busses, trams, school warming cut out. Białystok, building a gym with a special school and educational centre for young people It's cut out. Włocławek, revitalization of the city, low emissions, reconstruction of tenement houses, renovation of en. Freedom in Włocławek is cut out. The third bridge in Włocławek is cut into a trunk. Płock, radiotherapy center, modernization of the hospital in Rudka It's cut out. Radom, construction of the SOR in Radom cut out. Szczecin, buses, trams, repair ul. The closet's cut out. Gdansk, a channel of relief in Wrzeszcz, a tour of the Lowland Gate cut out, ul. New Świętokrzyskie, cut out. Gdynia, ul. Kwiatkowskiego, rain channel at ul. Sochaczewska's cut. [[It's flooded.]] Senator, there's nothing to laugh about. [[I'm not laughing.]] That's how you divided the Poles. You cut it out. These are serious things. That's what you guys did. You split up the resources. Sopot, daycare for 60 children in Sopot It's cut out. Zero for Sopot. Do children in Sopot wear party cards? Are the walls of houses in Sopot, carpeting, warming, windows Do they have any party colors? Świdnica, apartments for disabled people cut out. Kudowa-Zdrój, Sports Centre It's cut out. Tuszyn, gym for children at school and kindergarten cut out. Bystrica Kłodzka, a rural cultural centre It's cut out. Katowice, bridge over Rawa, cut out. Sailing stable in the Shepards It's cut out. Wrocław, school and kindergarten team, cut out, extension of school no. 99 and cut out. Lublin, the new metropolitan station cut out. White Podlaska, bike path along Krzny, cut out, sports hall near the team of economic schools. Does the economist in White Podlaski have a party color? Does the youth who go there learn, carry any party IDs belong to a group? You've made this division. You have acted unjustly, unsolidarly to this. Driving, handing out coupons... These coupons, these cardboard stamps, were supposed to be just such a sign: not theirs. And this is about Poles. It's about community, it's about solidarity. And this resolution speaks of this solidarity, the restoration of solidarity. The vote on this preamble, very important, will also be a vote on whether we are in favour of a solidarity state, a country in which there is no worse and better sort, whether party cards and party color count. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u165	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to focus on the affairs of the committee, which I have the honour of chairing, the climate committee. The money to be spent in Poland under the National Reconstruction Plan must be at least 37% for climate protection measures. These markers are hard and rigidly enshrined in resolutions which are adopted by the various authorities of the European Union. That also means 37%. it must be spent rigidly, but the remaining money that will be spent must be conducive to those objectives which the European Commission, the European Parliament, the European Council defined. In Poland, experts who assessed the plan resulting from the document adopted by the government were very critical of this document. These experts raise the lack of consistency with the European Union's 2030 targets, i.e. a 55% reduction. greenhouse gas emissions, lack of support for the objective of climate neutrality by 2050, based on strategic documents without reference to these objectives... Let me remind you that the Polish government accepted such documents even this year, e.g. Poland's energy policy 2020,2040 based on the fact that the first block in nuclear energy will be built by 2033 and, on average, such blocks in Europe, where there is a large culture associated with nuclear energy, 17 years are built. So it is easy to calculate that this is simply impossible and this document is fundamentally false. I could quote other documents, but it's a waste of time to show how the National Reconstruction Plan is built on defective foundations. This also applies to support from grants for commercial projects. Because in this part of the grant there is money saved to support RES activities, e.g. as part of the offshore, only a horse with a row of those who understand why some entities will receive double support. This applies to the companies that will make the effort. Let me remind you that at the end of last year in this House we discussed a law on support for farm projects, offshore wind power plants, public support. These projects have been notified whether they are in the process of receiving notifications from the European Commission and there is no reason for them to receive additional support from EU grant aid, and in this programme such support appears in the form of grants. And there's no subsidies for other purposes that I'm about to talk about. What threats do experts see? I'm just gonna change them a little bit, not enough time. In the area of energy: insufficient funds for investment in the distribution network, no reference to EU climate targets, double support from the State Treasury companies, I talked about the example of offshore projects, possible financing of projects involving CO2 emissions such as the production of hydrogen from methane. Green hydrogen must be produced from green energy, it must not be made from fossils, and this programme assumes, clearly in conflict with the objectives set by the European Commission. In the clean air area: based only on an insufficient programme of clean air, which offers the possibility to finance new coal boilers This is clearly in conflict, it is impossible to implement in this dimension. There are no proposals for new tools or reforms existing, such as the 'Stop smog' programme. In the section on rail transport: insufficient support for regional railways, the main focus is on financial assistance for PKP Intercity. In the food section: lack of investment in education for both consumers and farmers. In the section on water management, the experts' concerns relate to the fact that retention in agricultural areas should be done by restoring the possibility of water retention in existing drainage systems rather than in rivers. These are just some examples that show that this program is written under the needs of PiS activists, mismanaged companies of the Treasury, not due to real and real needs. The amount allocated to the tasks related to the area related to energy and the environment in the programme is PLN 25.6 billion. This amount is formally exchanged by officials of the Ministry of Climate and Environment. But once again, when we get into the details, we will see that only EUR 300 million has been allocated to investments in heat sources, and it is these heat sources that are one of the main causes of smog in Poland. Without modernising the transmission networks, without building new networks and connections to the installation of combined heat supply and modernization of heat sources, we not only sentence Poles to a high price for thermal energy, but also do not solve the problem of smog in Polish cities. This also applies to activities such as the thermomodernisation of schools Only 290 million. I'm even skipping out on whether they're going to the PiS or not. My colleagues have said a lot about how this is a highly unfair way of sharing money. The problem is that in such a dimension, too, this money has been divided badly, even very badly. But it is already a complete scandal to share quotas for the water and sewage economy. That's EUR 204 million. Yesterday, during the committee meeting, we heard from representatives of the government that in order to meet the EU's objectives, which result from the Water and Water Directive, Poland must issue in the coming years. In fact, we are already late - PLN 24 billion. That's all it takes to achieve EU goals. This EUR 204 million is PLN 1 billion. These are very insufficient amounts. At the moment, Poland is being prosecuted for breach of the directive. We are already at the stage of the reasoned opinion and response of the Polish government. Well, the Polish government has even tried and calculated what sanctions threaten us for this. Listen: sanctions for failure to comply with the Directive by the end of 2020 as calculated by the Ministry of Infrastructure The Minister for Maritime and Inland Affairs has previously dealt with this issue: EUR 5.77 billion. The government, knowing that such a threat has arisen, spends so little money on it. What does that mean? It means that in the near future It's going to take a year, maybe a little longer. We are threatened with such serious sanctions and, at the same time, there is no real response, there is no support instrument, no action to solve this problem. Well, the government thinks that money can be used for other purposes. I mentioned offshore, and now I'm gonna get back to it. I live in northern Poland myself, and I know that there are things that cannot be explained. These issues concern support for the modernisation of ports, which are to be ports serving, servicing windmills built in the future, wind turbines at sea. Because only 2 ports are included in the National Reconstruction Plan: Leba and Ustka. Question is, why just these? Why isn't Władyslav, Kolobrzeg, Darlov? Why are the other ports not included? There are also needs of this type. We don't know the answer and we don't know the answer. Perhaps it's a waste of time for some. Well, the government isn't able to answer that question precisely. He says he just wrote it down like that and that's it. However, local authorities had previously received a declaration that their ports would also be included in this programme. [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done. To be honest, we have heard earlier that this programme has already been adopted by the government, that there will be no discussion of it. Meanwhile, during the committee meeting of the representative of the government, we heard that this is a stage of dialogue, that this document can still be completely amended. So I wonder when the government is lying. Or is he always lying? Maybe he can't tell the truth anymore. The document that has been submitted to us is a highly inadequate document, and the preamble to this law is the minimum of what we must do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u167	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dorota Czudowska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 25 November last year, 2020, the 18th Senate meeting held a second reading of a draft resolution calling on the Council of Ministers to withdraw from the threats of vetoing the European Union budget. I followed the discussion, yesterday I read again the record of this discussion on 25 November, and I cannot understand today's attitude of coalition senators who set themselves up as the brake of the legislative process of extremely important for Poland and Poles. I will remind you that the Senators of Law and Justice were opposed to this resolution because we thought that at the time when the Polish government was negotiating the amount and conditions of the European Union's budget for 2021 and 2027, this discussion was not necessary. We were also calm, confident that the government knew what it was doing, and the results of the negotiations and the success of Prime Minister Morawiecki showed that we were right. Today we are to adopt a law on ratification of decisions on the system of own resources of the European Union. The discussion, as Mr Marshal Pęk pointed out in his statement, is actually completely missing what we should debate and what we should decide today. This bill, I hope, today we will, but we could have adopted it two weeks ago. The argument that the Senate meeting at that time was so overloaded that there was no room and time for this discussion was, of course, false. I'm not gonna use big words here, who lied, who didn't lie. The facts have shown for themselves. On the first day we sat from 1 p.m. to 7 p.m.... or from 11 p.m. to 7 p.m., on the next day from 11 p.m. to afternoons, on Friday, which was supposed to be the third day of the Senate's deliberations... well, we were fired from this last lesson, we went home to talk about the same thing today after 2 weeks. But these two weeks, as has been stressed many times, make us one of the last countries... well, the last country to ratify the European Union's resources, and that is because of the Senate. It makes me uncomfortable. I now hope that the coalition senators will not follow the footsteps of the Members and will vote for this ratification without introducing this brake, which is the preamble and possible other amendments. I would also like to add courage to the vote: it is important, however, and it is important not only that this bill will come out of the Senate today, but also that it would be good if she did not have to go back to the Sejm and so that the President could sign it as soon as possible. I'm going to quote some of the statements from November 25th, and I'm going to quote without giving names to avoid any possible charge that I'm referring to ad personam, and not cause unnecessary additional polemics. However, in view of these statements, I will stress once again, the slowing down of ratification by Poland is completely incomprehensible, and it is not only for us, parliamentarians or government ministers, but also for society. Proof? Look at the polls of support for political parties. Do we need this EU money? What did you say about this a few months ago, as well as the fact that it should be as soon as possible? A little history... That's a quote. I'll say I'm quoting. A little history. On 5 June 1947, General Marshall announced that he would put the European economy back on its feet. Everyone was very happy, only that one man in Moscow, Stalin, said: no, the countries of the Eastern Block will not benefit from it. And then we could get about $500 million out of it. We didn't get it. We didn't make up much for these delays until after 1989. History is mean, it likes to repeat itself, only that a wise nation learns from history and does not do the same again, does not make the same mistakes. You spoke about the dangers of adopting the Preamble Act, the Marshal Pęk, as well as Minister Wawrzyk. The next quote, you asked, "How do you evaluate the budget for the next 7 years?" It's worth remembering the numbers here. This budget is one trillion and 74 billion euros. In addition, the Fund for Reconstruction is worth EUR 750 billion. I am already shortening: Poland can count on about 32 billion euros of cheap loans from the Fund for Reconstruction. Together, it is over EUR 150 billion. With today's course, it is about PLN 750 billion, which Poland, Poles, Polish entrepreneurs expect. This is 123 billion for Poland in this financial perspective. A further 32 billion euros of possible low-interest loans need to be added. And dramatic questions: don't we need this? Doesn't the government need that? You don't need this? And then there's the budget you want to veto. Here's another quote. It's special. Over the next 7 years, etc., etc. And then it goes on: And now it wants to block this budget?... It means that we would like to block this budget. Who's blocking him now? That's what we know. And then, the logic of such an attitude is appalling, I suspect, at the level of the third grade of primary school. More importantly, Poles are looking forward to this money. Then: Union funds are not government resources; they are public funds. We have the right to demand that they be issued in Poland. And further: As far as the key issue concerning instruments is concerned, it is very important for me that this budget is actually adopted as soon as possible for accepting Poland, without doing this rumor, which unfortunately spoils our image, these are your words. And almost to the end: Poles know that both the funds from the budget and the funds from the Fund for Reconstruction are needed for Poland as much as the rain is needed for burned land. It is about rebuilding the Polish economy and Polish industries. So? And the Polish government wants to veto such a fund? We didn't say that... And then it's sabotage. After all, this is an act against the interests of Poles. Next: In the name of this business, Europe wants to give us the money to get us out of the trouble we have. And today you are going to war with Europe only because of your particular and evil intentions regarding the Polish justice system. And the final quotes: "It's crazy, because it's impossible to call it otherwise, it's an uproar that needs to be stopped. I am sure that today the Senate of the Brightest Republic of Poland, adopting this resolution, will take the first step towards defending the national interest of Poland. I would also like us to adopt this resolution on behalf of the national interest of Poland. And further: Today in front of Poland one of the most important decisions. Will we and the rest of the European Union rebuild Poland after the pandemic, or will we fall into a geopolitical drift of loneliness? I hope we make the right choice. Our decision will be assessed by future generations of Poles. I will, of course, vote in favour of the ratification act, but against the preamble. She, despite its flawed content, undermines the seriousness of the Polish parliament and undermines the credibility of the government of the Republic of Poland. And this government was elected, established as a result of democratic parliamentary elections held in Poland in 2019, which won Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u169	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm amazed at everything we're hearing in this sitting room today. I am surprised that there are many prominent lawyers among the Senators of the Civic Coalition, i.e. people who have been dealing with the law for years. I'm not a lawyer, so I've consulted legal advice from people who actually know the law. And I'll tell you that none of them told me that there should be a vote on the preamble in the case of such a ratification act. I listened with equal amazement to the content of this recital. I'm gonna say I get the feeling that some people have the wrong room. 'Cause actually, it looks like some people got the wrong eighth grade exam room that's taking place these days with the Senate. Work, just as written, well, maybe on three, maybe not necessarily, longer than the content of the basic law, which is to be a preamble for actually the entire law. Yeah, and resentment for the Polish government. This is not a law of the Polish government. This is the ratification of the European Union's decision. So that you can't resent the Polish government, that he wrote this law wrongly, because it wasn't made by the Polish government. Out of the 27 countries of the European Union 25 have already ratified this law, only Poland and Austria have not yet. 22 days of waiting, while practically such proper work was just a few days. You could debate. It was possible to work on this law already at the previous part of the sitting, but there was no time for it, there was no desire. And actually, once again, there is a desire to exist, to anger everyone: for example by this 1 day drag, for example by these 2 days, and why not. Well, if you can't make it a month, because maybe that's how stupid it would look to the European Union, then let's make it three weeks. Are you angry with the Polish government? No. You're making yourself angry. You're angry with the self-governments you've been holding back many times. Because it's the local government that's waiting for this bill. And as soon as she's ratified, it'll depend on when that money comes in. And that is why I believe that the actions of the Civic Coalition, which we are witnessing once again, are to the detriment of Poland, to the detriment of the self-government and to the detriment of the European Union. I hear you're pro-EU. But the other countries are waiting for ratification, and you don't care. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u171	Since Senator Jackowski is not in the room, I therefore ask that you take the floor of Senator Ujazdowski. [[Voice from the room: which is not there either.]] Which isn't in the O.R. either. [[Senator locksmith.]] [[Voice from the hall: What about Jazłowiecka?]] And Senator Jazlowicka? Because I don't know if... [[Voice from the room: It's upstairs.]] Yes? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] In that case, please take the floor of Senator Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u172	Thank you, Mr President. There was a colleague before me, who is also here in the courtroom, but since I've already been called, I'd love to. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few years ago, we heard the slogan "good change" from the politicians of Law and Justice. A slogan that's already passed. Now the PiS is thundering a new slogan: "We keep our word." Here are some examples of how Law and Justice keep their word. They were supposed to be big COVID treatment centers. In the meantime, we have 39 temporary hospitals. That's actually very good, but out of them, only 17 are active and 22 are passive. The cost of setting up one of these hospitals is about PLN 26 million, i.e. those 17 hospitals that work cost us 500 million, the remaining perhaps more than 500 million. It's okay that they are, because they're needed. But why aren't they working? Why didn't they work when the situation required it? Why have cancer patients or cardiovascular diseases not been treated? In Poland, mortality is increasing in an intimidating way, and we are in the last place here. In March 2020, the increase in January 2021 was more than 23%. Is this the way to take care of our citizens' health? You promised covid accessories. According to the covid bill, allowances were to be granted to all those working with patients with COVID-19. The bill didn't come into effect because it wasn't published. Finally, the amendment of the law limited the payment of this supplement to doctors directed to work by voivodships. After the protests, the group entitled to the allowance was expanded. But why aren't there gentlemen and ladies, paramedics or medical secretaries among the eligible? You promised screening tests for the whole of Poland. Initially, the Minister said that we would mass-test Poles, carry out screening tests for COVID-19, that we would start with the southern provinces of Poland. He even confirmed that he had preliminary talks with the voivods there. Shortly thereafter, the promise was withdrawn. In January, before the return of children to schools, only teachers of the youngest classes were tested throughout Poland. There were supposed to be shorter queues to doctors, the liquidation of the NFZ, a modernised network of hospitals. Is that what happened? The government is in no hurry to improve quality or to improve the availability of health care. The government prefers to spend money on TVP and restricts it for cancer patients or cardiovascular diseases. In September 2019 Mr Kaczyński spoke out loud that farmers would eventually receive full subsidies per hectare, subsidies at European level. It was praised that we have the best Commissioner in the European Commission, Mr Janusz Wojciechowski. What do farmers' subsidies look like today? How high are these subsidies? In the case of agriculture, the governments of PSL and the Civic Platform were also criticised for the fact that too much land was sold to foreigners. In 2015, however, 412 hectares of agricultural land were sold to foreigners, and in 2020 there were 3 times the increase of 1 thousand 349 hectares. That's what keeping a word looks like, that's what a good change looks like. There is a fund behind the fund: the Hospital Modernization Fund, the 100 bypass fund, the Government Local Investment Fund, the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund, the patriotic fund, the school investment fund. You could say that for another half an hour. Where are they? What are they doing? The answer is: they are and cost Poles hundreds of millions a month. Tax cuts were promised. There was supposed to be zero VAT on children's clothes, whereas only the tax on hygiene products, on women's pads, was reduced. The PiS also did not increase the tax-free amount for all Poles. The aim was to simplify taxes, reduce costs for workers, employers and administrations. Meanwhile, the costs of employers and ordinary citizens are increasing. As mushrooms after rain rise new taxes: bank and commercial tax, solidarity tribute, power charge, fuel issue fee. I've only exchanged a few. The word "good change," still sounds like a slogan, we keep our word. There were supposed to be electric cars, 100,000 apartments, construction of roads, new public transport connections. Where are they? How many are there? It's supposed to be fast internet. Today, in the age of school and remote work, 25% Polish farms do not have access to the Internet at all. Mr President promised even ridiculous 24 pensions a year, 2 pensions a month. However, the total destruction of the horse stud in Janów was not promised. In 2015, the stud had over 3 million profits, and today it has to be paid 5 million to survive. The destruction of parks, nature reserves was not promised. In Poland the tree was destroyed on an unprecedented scale within a few months. Is it surprising, then, to have such low confidence in the government? Only 26%, only one in four Poles trusts the government. Should it be surprising that we demand compliance and solidarity 74% ,ba,all the Poles and Poles? This is our parliamentary duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u173	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Karczewski reported in correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, well, I can't ignore this speech because this speech has exceeded all reasonable standards of speech and I will allow myself to correct it. The senator probably read the text prepared for her not at all for this speech and not for this debate, filled with hatred for the Law and Justice, without an objective, realistic assessment of reality. I am offended by the senator's statement of the excessive costs we have incurred in saving human life. I worked in the covid ward, saw people die. One day they came in healthy, slightly coughing, the next day they had to be hooked up to a ventilator, and the third day they died. And end this presumptuous anti-written propaganda that too much money has been spent on hospitals. If this money hadn't been spent, many, many people would have died. And thanks to these hospitals, tens of thousands of lives have been saved. And please don't say such things, because they offend the medics, insult common sense. And I'd like to say to you, senator, that you're not telling the truth. The paramedics and the halls got the money, after 5 thousand zlotys, they are happy, happy and grateful. You were talking about increased land sales. I don't have the data here, but I know the ones you gave me aren't real. The funds are working. The funds are working and there are self-government officials... And here you've put up this kind of support for local government officials... I join this support because it works very well with the government and me personally with the local government. But you're talking about 24 pensions. I don't know what you're talking about. No one's ever said anything like that. [[Voice from the room: The president spoke.]] 24 pensions, right? Good. But not Jarosław Kaczyński. Don't throw an invective at the president here. $30,000... If you are up to date and watch even TVN, then TVN also talks about the amount of tax-free PLN 30,000. What's the prescription? The prescription is what I heard today in an interview with Mr. Semoniak, who said we'll go to the people. Then go talk to the people. Because you live in an unreal world, in a world of false reality, in a world you want to create, in a world of unreal reality. You have said very well to the vice-president of your party that you must go to the people. Go to the people and talk to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Mr. Marshal, I would like to address these words of yours...]] Okay, Senator. But just a little bit, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u176	Well, Mr. Senator Karczewski, I prepared my speech myself on the basis of CUS data, on the basis of the data I received from you, I did not invent them. Therefore, I encourage you to read more carefully and examine more carefully what kind of country you are preparing. If you're outraged by my performance, what can we say about the appearance of Vice-Marshal Bang? His speech offended not only parliamentarians, but it offended Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u177	Senator Jarosław Rusiecki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This presentation by Senator Jazłowiec herself seems to be the best way to respond, not on the subject, as if the young people had said. It's about the case we're dealing with. And we are dealing with the issue of ratification, which is of interest to the public as well as to local authorities. You have very often been referring to the state as so-called. The democratic majority in the Senate that you have good contact with local government. I would like to present you on this very important day for local government officials, the day of the first local elections from 31 years ago, on the day of the celebration of local government... Of course, I give all local governments the best, most heartfelt wishes and great thanks for changing Poland. I would like to present to you the appeal of the local sejm of Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship from today, a sejmik, who closely observed and observed what is happening today in the Senate. This is a call for the Senate of the Republic of Poland to adopt immediately the Act on ratification of decisions on the system of own resources of the European Union. The appeal has four paragraphs and let me read it in its entirety. In order to ensure the development and proper functioning of local communities, municipalities and Świętokrzyskie districts concerned about the difficult situation of local government budgets resulting from the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Sejm of the Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship calls on the Senate of the Republic of Poland to adopt immediately the European Union's own resources law adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on 4 May this year. The adoption of this law, as adopted by the Polish Parliament, will enable ratification of the decision of the Council of the European Union, which is necessary for the rapid mobilisation of huge funds planned, among others. under the National Reconstruction Plan. These measures are already necessary to ensure the proper functioning of local government units at all levels, both in terms of continuing important investments and in terms of carrying out current tasks. By appealing to the senators on 27 May, when we celebrate the Day of the Local Government, we believe that the responsibility of all of you for the proper development and functioning of Polish local governments today will prevail over attempts to delay the adoption and ratification of decisions on the European Union's own resources. The loss of this opportunity will be a failure that will not be forgiven by future generations of Poles. This is the appeal of today, the appeal of the local sejm of the Świętokrzyskie voivodship in Kielce, which I present to you and which I support. This appeal was adopted by the democratic majority of the local government sejm of Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u179	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take... Senator Ujazdowski. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. Just a moment ago, Senator Rusiecki mentioned my name. I'm asking for a correction.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u180	Mr. Senator, you said my speech was out of line. If you listened carefully, you would probably notice that the motive for my speech was the distrust of Poles in the Government of Law and Justice. Let me remind you: 26% One in four Poles trusts the government. Hence, the need to ensure that the law is respected and to ensure solidarity between all Poles and Poles in the distribution of the civil fund. The examples I have mentioned show only why trust in the government is so extremely low. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, one sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u181	Thank you very much. Senator Rusiecki in correction mode, but this is the last statement in this debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u182	Last sentence. Mr. Marshal! Senator! What confidence does the Civic Platform have, divided, quarrelled, publicly appearing with letters to each other, we see for ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u183	Please take the floor of Senator Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Much has been said in this debate. I will try to talk briefly about three issues: the attitude to truth and the integrity to citizens, what is dictated or dictated by the public interest, and the political situation connected with this really extraordinary financial programme that we will implement in Poland and will be implemented in Europe. The Senators of Law and Justice constantly claim that the Senate's work, which continues in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Constitution and in time not extended, is slowing down the ratification procedure. That is not true, respect for citizens requires that it be said that it is not true. If something slowed down the ratification procedure, it was internal tension in the ruling camp, because this project could have been directed much earlier. The preamble is not addressed to the Member States of the European Union and does not bind the Member States of the European Union to any extent, nor will it cause any inconvenience to other countries. The preamble is returned to the inside, it is a guarantee of professional, impartial spending. I would also observe this to a person, to Senator Czudowska, whom I respect, not to use an analogy with Marshall's plan. Emotions are characteristic of public life, but it's worth telling the public... This isn't even a debate with the senator, it's something I want to say for the sake of fairness to the citizens. Marshall's plan was a plan carried out by the power that came out of World War II as victorious, which did not harm its economic substance and actually transferred huge resources to Europe. The Fund for Reconstruction, this special Fund for Reconstruction, is a fund that will be implemented by the European nations and paid by the European nations, paid for by all future generations. His payment ends in 2050, when probably none of us will have public responsibility anymore. Come on. This money will not come to Poland in June and July, no, don't introduce public opinion Misleading. [[Voice from the room: Not all of them.]] None will come in June and July, none will come in June and July. And what can delay... [[Voice from the room:... your actions...]] No, no action, only the lack of national tools, also the implementation law, which is not known to the public, is not even known to Members and Senators of Law and Justice. She may be known as a law firm who writes a law of implementation, but certainly not in the political background of Law and Justice. At this point, it is worth thanking someone who at least opened the public debate, effectively, on the National Plan for Reconstruction and on this extraordinary fund, namely NGOs and Jakub Wybański. He did something you couldn't question, I'm talking about the organisation of five large debates on the National Plan for Reconstruction, which was the only sensible citizen intervention. If there was no public opinion in Poland and there was no third sector, this would also be ignored. It is also worth mentioning something sad, that is to say, not learning the state lessons from the pandemic. I've never attacked a government camp, accusing him of being responsible for the death of his fellow citizens. These are matters too delicate to be placed in the current political dispute. But we are responsible for the state of public services in Poland. Clearly, at least two spheres have failed: education and health care. There is no reform plan. You are looking forward to great measures without any reform plan in the sector or sectors that are crucial to citizens' existence. It's very sad. Finally, a political process that is not covered by the rule of law and justice, i.e. that these are the measures that will restore support of 40% that Poles will believe that these are party measures imported, data. That's the only way to think about it is if you think poorly of your own society. Let me remind you the truth of Tocqueville: power does not hold back because of material success, it does not fall due to radical deterioration, usually falls when it has developed appetites that it is unable to satisfy. Your grace on a sharp horse rides and don't think it's a simple way to maintain political power. Because the Pole knows that these are measures that Polish and Poles know that these are measures developed by many generations, thanks to many political formations, many governments that contributed to Poland's presence in the European Union. These aren't party measures. If you think this tool can be maintained... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...keep... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...stay in charge... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr Marshal, the former heads of the House should be more reticent because of their authority and the entire House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u185	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, can I just...]] The floor will be taken... [[...a brief corrigendum? Mr. Marshal?]] I don't see... Oh, yes, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u186	Mr Senator, the statement on Marshall's plan was quoted by one of the senators in the debate on 25 November. Those weren't my words.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u187	Thank you for that correction. Senator Rafał the locksmith will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u188	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I may not be in the mood for today's debate because I'm going to try to find what we have in common. And I think we all share the awareness of the importance of this moment, this debate. We are connected by the awareness of the importance of this decision and also by the conviction that this decision will have consequences for many years for Poland and Poles. And it seems to me that we also have the conviction that politicians who will participate in this decision will be perceived by Polish citizens as effective politicians and politicians who have dealt with Polish affairs effectively. And here came the problem for you from the party coalition in the Senate, that contrary to what my previous speaker said just now, however, Poles will combine success in obtaining this money and using this money in Poland with the current power. That is why you decided to mark your presence during the process, extending the procedure in the Senate, adopting the preamble, as well as expressing this debate with various oratorial upheavals, in my opinion unnecessarily, because we are senators, we are members of the legislative authority, and we can enjoy the success of the government, even if we are in opposition. There's no need to test it. In order to mark this presence, you have taken advantage of 2 topics or used 2 topics: firstly, the issue of involving local governments in the use of this money, secondly, the issue of fair distribution of this money. Of course, in these countries' thesis that appear in the preamble, there is a suggestion. If not insinuation That the Government of Law and Justice will ignore local governments and that it will divide this money unfairly. As far as this dishonesty is concerned, the European Union's control body checks how European money is spent. I do not know whether you know that in the 2019 report it pointed out to the Polish entrepreneur that it extorted a subsidy for the purchase of machinery by setting a tender. It is certainly not a pleasant information for us, but when we find out that this tender was set with the German mother company and this German company selling these machines was the real beneficiary of this money, we will see it in a slightly different context. OLAF considered this to be some symptomatic, bad solution, poor use of grants. As far as local governments are concerned, the state often refers to this money related to local investment, but none of you has said about the shield for local governments, this shield for local governments, which has supported local governments affected by the consequences of the fight against the pandemic. Remember what the criteria were: all the municipalities, all the districts. I talked to local government officials, they didn't believe that money would come to them, they didn't believe it, and they were often more critical than the present ones, even the most fierce opponents of the Law and Justice government. And then they came to the local government with this money related to the local investment fund. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not quote us this information about territorial differences in the distribution of this money, but follow 10 years back and government support for local governments. You'll see that this has barely come close to evening out. So let's look at this in the long run. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of fair spending and the question of supporting local governments is not a question that differs from us. You're here pretending to be a political dispute, and there's no such dispute. We also want to support local governments and, of course, we want to spend this money honestly. Here's the thing. Sorry, I'm getting a little tired of this mask. To which it is appropriate to refer in this debate, because you also receive emails and there are political forces that raise this issue. Here is the definition of Marshall's plan, but at the other end of the assessment of this entry into this great financial system is also such a diagnosis that it is something like Hamilton's plan. We know what's going on, praise and criticism, because it's about the risk of getting involved in this kind of financial venture. I think it's worth it. To define ourselves, as we understand sovereignty. I'm not gonna be original here, and I'm gonna be a little straggling the words of Minister Konrad Szymanski. Well, sovereignty isn't words, it's not even documents. This is an expression of the political, social, economic, cultural potential of the country, and this potential can only be built on financial resources. And we need that money. And if we're having second thoughts about what's gonna happen if we take that money, then let's think about what happens if we don't take that money. I'm sure our sovereignty would suffer from this. And as for entering into this kind of arrangement, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to show that we are politically different, although I do not care to emphasise these differences. You are presenting a political thinking in which you do not believe in European democracy and in which you do not believe in European rule of law. The state accepts democracy, the sentence of democracy as something static, which will make the European Union continue to move towards left-liberalism, and if there is a change, it will move towards an increasingly left-wing and increasingly liberal one. You do not notice the letter of the French generals, the victory of the Greens Sure, it's a left-hand move, but you don't notice the process in Italy either. Your programme will not always be similar to the European elite programme. It's worth considering. We look at democracy as something that is dynamic, variable. And the second thing about the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, the European rule of law is among others. such an element as legal certainty, it is among others. an element such as the possibility of appealing against a decision. That's the judge's look, and they're the third power. Power is to care wisely for the common good. This is... We spoke to Senator Klich about this once. This is a belief in human dignity. Tell me how to find these elements in Turov's decision. Where is the possibility of appealing this decision? Where's the legal certainty? Where's the dignity of the workers, the miners? Where is concern for the common good in relation to the energy security of Poland? It's as if the man who was charged was shot in protective mode. Yes, the "Tur" mine was shot with this decision. This is not a European rule of law. It's all changed. It's going in a direction that I think will require correction. But, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I'd like to talk about something that we haven't had in common yet. In 2008, Prime Minister Donald Tusk said that Poland would adopt the euro by 2011. It can be said that, far-sightedly, it has taken a blessed decision to withdraw from this promise, so that the Government of Law and Justice has more tools at the moment, more financial sovereignty, which is of great importance in relation to this act before us. You might say, in conclusion, Mr. Marshal, finish this game because the deadlines are pressing. But the matter is too serious and I do not want to trivialize, so let me say: let's accept it in a way that does not disturb this procedure, without a recital, for sovereign Poland, for Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u189	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I will immediately say that I will not speak of the Turov, nor of the letter of the French generals, nor of the list of sailors from the submarine of the Eagle of yesterday. I will talk about ratification, about what is the subject of this meeting. And I'm gonna start by doing three things to make sure that I'm clear about what I'm saying. First, I would like to show you where the real source is that we are the last, that we are ending the ratification process when it comes to individual countries. I'll start with an important statement. It is important to remember that the government has a representative in the European Commission and participates in the Council's work. Therefore, he knew very well, he could anticipate and should anticipate the situation with regard to the adoption of a specific document, the source of the delays in ratification of December last year. He could have prepared for it properly. Second thing. The government has undertaken several attempts to put on the agenda, on its own agenda for the ratification project And he moved it from week to week. This is the second source of delay. I will also remind you that, finally, on February 27th, as I remember, the government succeeded in adopting this preliminary document, which was to be addressed to the Sejm. But a month later, on 27 March, Zbigniew Ziobro, Minister Ziobro calls for non-ratification, calls for non-ratification. I will remind you, just in case, that Minister Ziobro is not a member of the Civic Coalition and never was. All those disputes that then took place in the Seym were the most important source of these delays, the responsibility for which is being transferred to the Senate at the moment. I have the imperative of defending the Senate when it comes to guarding our powers. We act immediately within the Constitution, within the 30 days that are given to us. Many senators, ladies and gentlemen were dissatisfied with this limit, because from time to time it turned out to be insufficient for such complex, so complicated billings that we have dealt with e.g. in the past year; it was e.g. so-called. the first act concerning COVID. But I would like to stress, Minister, that we have never crossed that deadline once. And every time the Senate acts in this matter according to the letter of the law and according to the constitution. Third element on the allegation of late ratification. I'm not talking about the Senate anymore, because I hope it's clear to everyone that if we consider it in three weeks, and we're almost six months behind, the Senate isn't to blame. But there was a second argument, which was extremely important to me, that during these few days we were delaying the acquisition of funds. That's a perfectly false argument. Anyone who knows what the ratification process looks like and how it is prepared as a result of this ratification knows very well that the procedure for spending these funds is built in a separate tool. In general, the representatives of the European Commission are counting on the completion of the process of laying down and completing all the ratification elements on 30 June, and from that moment on the procedure for using technical tools will begin to ensure that this money goes to countries. And another thing that no one pays attention to. We are indeed a very serious beneficiary of this pool. In the first places, as I recall, there are Italians and Spaniards, and I think we have fourth place right in front of the Germans. But please note how the government has planned to spend this funding for 2021. It's not 10, 15, 20 billion. That's 3 billion. We were immediately in the rest of the countries when it came to spending money. So what is the right here, from this speaker, to say that the Senate is blocking these funds, since the government itself assumes the minimalism of spending these funds in 2021? Notabene is forced to immediately spend some of it on agricultural purposes, which are saved and separated there. That's what I'm paying attention to. The third element, also related to ratification. There was such a charge that we should not discuss financial resources at all, that we should only discuss ratification. What's that ratification document about? About the European Union's own financial resources Yeah, that's right. He is composed of 2 parts on strengthening his own budget and on building a separate reconstruction programme for the European Union, exactly the economy. But what I'm trying to say right now is that this rule I'm talking about doesn't even follow my colleagues in Law and Justice. We're talking about money. Okay, that's good. I'll answer right away. We have the right and the obligation to talk about the financial resources on this occasion, because this ratification document in the final does not create a fixed-term deposit for the European Union. This ratification document builds a budget of these 2 elements, which immediately contains certain expenditure rules, quite detailed, maybe not excessive, but quite detailed. And the last point of ratification itself. I'm not 100%. convinced that the formula for the addition of recitals, omissions, changes, etc., is literally, purely and correctly built from a legislative point of view. Some say that absolutely yes, others say that it should not be added Or that there are no rules. The Court has also spoken in an imprecise manner several times. But in general, that's not what's essential. At the end of the day, it is crucial to build this recital, in which 2 sentences are the most important. Firstly, that the measures should be spent fairly, secondly that they should be monitored. And I really can't figure out how to be against such records. I can't understand how you can fight for it to be transparent and unfair. I must also say that I was listening to the senator. She's not here right now. As she said that we needed this money like rain on burned land, for a moment I wondered if she had used this analogy fully consciously. Do we have Poland, burnt land, and the European Union is the only rain that will give us a harvest? Well, the senators, and in this case, the senator, I wasn't expecting it. This devastating assessment of the state of affairs and needs arising from what the Union guarantees us. I don't want to overreact, because I never, which I stress: never... Oh, hello, Senator. I have never, once again, been a Euro-enthusiast or an opponent of the European Union. I'm a realist, I've seen European bureaucracy and slow decision making, and there's a need for some activity. However, I absolutely appreciate everything that the Union gives us, what the Union guarantees us at the moment, also through the possibility of ensuring our economy, in short, catching breath, everything that is absolutely necessary for us after the pandemic. So in a way, I'm gonna sign off on that. As for two minor and one big issues... I'll start with the big one. I stopped asking the Minister when he thought the Senate was breaking the constitution. He acknowledged this by giving articles which are related to the competence of the Council of Ministers and competences related to the procedure itself in the Senate. Once again, I stress that from my point of view, the defence of the Senate is the responsibility of all senators, we must all act in accordance with the law, in accordance with our conscience and in accordance with procedures. I am convinced that the Senate also for marshaling Senator Karczewski did not break the constitution and does not break it today. And I can't accept that any senior or lower government representative comes to this pulpit and says, "Gentlemen, you're all breaking the constitution, you're breaking the constitution, I'm telling you." Such words and accusations against the High House are unacceptable from my point of view. And that's the last thing we need to do. It is not that the ratification procedure in all countries has been adopted in the same way. That's what I'm talking about right now, so there's no doubt about it. There were questions, no answers. There was even a situation that in individual countries there were several parliaments making these partial decisions first. We had the situation of stopping the decision, the Bundestag in this case, by the court before the President's signature because of various doubts. There was a situation where it was recognised in one of the Scandinavian countries that a qualified majority was needed, two thirds of the votes needed to adopt this ratification proposal. But there were also examples from which we derive experience, indirectly, consciously or unconsciously. For example, the Italians took the decision to ratify not only with the reconstruction programme, not only with this financial spending plan, but with all the tools to determine how this money will be spent, what the mechanism will be, what transparency will be and what control mechanisms will be. Is this humble preamble bothering you? A modest preamble... I'll add that I don't trust some of the sentences that my colleagues gave me. They say that if this preamble is accepted, we will be sure that the money will be spent honestly, correctly, transparently, fairly. I have no conviction that this will happen, even if the bill is with this preamble. And this reflection at the end I wanted to share with you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u191	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Senator? [[Yeah, in corrigendum mode.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u192	Mr Senator, this was also a quote from one of the senators in the debate on 25 November.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u193	You're welcome, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u194	One of the predecessors left a handkerchief... I mean a mask, so I'm gonna let you put it here. It's not Senator Zdrojewski, because he has his, so that... Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have serious doubts about the decision on the European Union's own resources, and it is not because I believe that this money is not necessary for Poland. They are, of course, very necessary, and it would be good to make use of this money, but on a different basis, rather than on a principle: money for sovereignty. I am very concerned about the conditions under which these funds will be granted, i.e. the agreement to the communion of debt and the right to tax by the European Commission. This is an important step towards building a federalized European Union and reducing the sovereignty of the Polish state. It is also obvious, of course, that I will quote a classic, contrary to our election program. Law and Justice advocated the concept of Europe of homelands and always emphasized, both during the period during which it was in opposition and during the period when it is in power, that it primarily cares for the sovereignty of the Polish state. It was in our programme in 2014 and it was repeated in 2019. It stresses: The European Union is, above all, a union of countries for us. We are in favour of Europe's homelands. We want to respect the Treaties and respect the principle of subsidiarity. We do not accept the uncontrolled erosion of the sovereignty of European homelands. However, the agreement to this mechanism clearly leads to a weakening of this sovereignty and opens up new opportunities for the creation of a single organism from the European Union. I'll use a reminiscence from the beginning of the United States. In 1790 there was a famous agreement between the Secretary of State Tomasz Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton, the Secretary of the Treasury, by virtue of which the debts of individual states were communed and a common tax policy was introduced. This moment is considered to be the beginning of the United States federalization, because earlier the relationship had a more loose character. Thus, it was not by chance after the famous December summit last December, which agreed on the Fund for Reconstruction and a drastic increase in the climate targets to 55% of the reduction of CO2 emissions by 2030 instead of 40% in force until then. , many spoke about the moment of the Hamilton Europe. The whole issue is presented in terms of great success consisting in negotiating as much as PLN 770 billion for Poland. Within the budgetary perspective for the period 2021 to 2027, this is about 500 billion and within the framework of the Fund for Reconstruction about 270 billion PLN. In parallel, the Prime Minister's declaration on the rapid decommissioning of Polish coal power plants was issued, which will, of course, have a negative economic impact on Poles and Poland. Therefore, this 770 billion must be combined with the document adopted by the government by 2040 Polish energy policy, in the light of which we will have to allocate nearly PLN 1 trillion to the energy transformation. These numbers no longer require comment. Unfortunately, I do not believe that there is a fair debate on this issue, a fair profit and loss account. I'm gonna bring up the famous rule here that there's no free dinners. This money will have to be paid sooner or later by debt of the Polish State and a strong increase in the membership fee, under conditions that are not fully defined. In addition, the cost of energy transformation will translate into a drastic increase in energy prices and a weakening of the potential of the Polish economy. In a sense, this is similar to the situation with French loans in 2006 and 2008. They were to be extremely beneficial, and to many they proved to be a trap. A total of EUR 750 billion will be created through debt and through the introduction of EU taxes, e.g. from plastic, carbon or digital, as well as an increase in the membership contributions of the beneficiaries of the fund. Debts will be made by the European Commission. Taxes will impose the same EU structure, but it is not clear who will ultimately decide how debt is financed and how funds from Brussels bonds are spent. All of this means that by at least 2058 Poland will have to pay its debt, introduce imposed taxes and accept to assess whether the funds are spent properly or not. So we're gonna pay for this supposedly free money ourselves, not being able to spend it the way we think it's meant to be. Already today the Polish contribution paid annually to the EU cash register amounts to PLN 25 billion. Soon the need to repay the debt may cause it to be significantly higher, and additionally EU institutions will be able to impose taxes on Polish citizens and Polish companies in the amount we do not know. Thus, contrary to propaganda messages, the Fund for Reconstruction, which is supposedly free to resuscitate the economy after the pandemic, opens the way to increasing the power of Brussels over Poland. Moreover, all indications are that the system of money for the rule of law and the so-called rule of law will be implemented. European values, which will give Brussels the opportunity to discretionaryly block the payment of EU funds. The recent events related to Turov show that the mechanisms of functioning of the Union, which are currently being created, are not some imaginary scarecrow. This is reality. In this case, it turned out that our neighbouring country used EU mechanisms to act with very specific economic impacts. I hope that this matter will be resolved positively, but this is the atrium of what awaits us, how it will be implemented, and all points out that the principle of money for the rule of law will be implemented. The amount of EUR 750 billion, i.e. the entire Fund for Reconstruction, and not yet from its own resources, seems disproportionate to the benefits enjoyed by the supporters of the European Union's federalisation. Even if the Fund for Reconstruction is clearly understood as a one-off instrument, it is, as the Italian Prime Minister pointed out, widely considered as a test for further fiscal integration in the Community. The current political struggle between the governing camp and the opposition, which maliciously claims, is still imposed on the whole discussion. Well or wrongly, we'll find out. That is, I quote, the Law and Justice electoral fund, although of course these funds are not the property of Law and Justice. According to the opposition, there is a calculation in all this, that this will make it possible to win elections that will most likely take place in 2023 and maybe earlier, although it is not so sure and thus remain in power. I'm paying attention to one thing. Law and Justice talked about building a Europe of homelands and opposing federalization, but at two key moments... I am thinking here about 2007 and the Lisbon Treaty, which, as we know, has weakened Poland's position in comparison to the functioning of the Union under the Treaty of Nice, as well as in this mechanism on the Union's own resources. These 2 moments were very important stages leading to the federalization process. I take the 2014 and 2019 programme seriously, as well as the commitment to voters. I'm not pretending there's no problem. I'm not saying you can't change the program. Of course you can, but you have to be honest with the voters and the public and announce it. We were supporters of Europe's homelands, we were opposed to the further federalization of the Union, but since there is such a dominant trend in the EU at the moment, we have revised our view and we recognise that this must be accepted. But all this has to be said honestly. Here is the next question: are the elites currently ruling the state finished, Mr. Marshal, taking into account their practice since 2015, able to effectively defend our national interests within the federalising European Union? Unfortunately, I don't have that kind of conviction. With these doubts in mind, I cannot support the ratification of the Council Decision of 14 December 2020 on the European Union's own resources system and I will abstain in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u195	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking after my friend, Senator Jackowski, it is difficult not to address his doubts, his last words announcing his abstention. Indeed, Senator Jackowski has faced the most important problems of ratifying this decision of the European Council. Appreciating the intellectual effort and correctness of the questions put, I must say that I come to other conclusions. I see an opportunity, a great opportunity, which is before our homeland, the use of these resources and the construction of stronger, richer, wealthier Poland, stronger, wealthier Polish families. Is what is happening now really a Hamilton moment, as my previous speaker pointed out? We could say that, and those who fear this stronger, more coherent Europe point to this similarity. But is it? We are dealing with a one-off mechanism, we are dealing with a one-off response to the unprecedented situation of the economic, social crisis after the COVID-19 pandemic. This one-time response required the approval of all countries. After all, the proof is this ratification and our discussion here. Each subsequent decision will require the same mode. Every time we make a decision, we weigh the benefits and look at the risks that these decisions bring. So, Dear Janek, I want to tell you that on this road to building the European Federation one must say in German: eine Macht ist keine Macht. It's a one-time step, and he doesn't have a fundamental meaning. Perhaps some countries, above all, the countries of the South, which are in a difficult economic situation, will become more accustomed to the money they have given. We don't have to take that money. We don't have to take it. We are in a much better position than those countries that had already been in trouble before the pandemic. We are a healthy economy, a well-developed country that quickly rebuilds its position or builds its position in Europe. Contrary to what some say, Poland is becoming increasingly important. We are a serious economic player in Europe and Poles are getting richer. This determines the strength of our country and whether we will be heard or not. Whether we make good use of these means and whether the future of Poland will be assured depends on whether the power, the direction of our homeland will rest in the hands of people who are mindful of Polish affairs. Therefore, I will remind you that when I submitted a minority report here, I spent a considerable amount of time complaining about the quality of the debate. And thank you for the votes that have now been put on the table, because the Senate has certainly stood up to the challenge. Yes, important questions have been asked. We know what we're talking about. We're talking about the future of our homeland. This government, which is now in charge, is a government which not only provided these resources but also provided a framework for the use of these funds. That scarecrow in the form of taking our money away from us, for example. We will not want to accept unacceptable cultural designs in Poland and someone will use the mechanism of the rule of law to impose behaviors that are not accepted by most Poles, it is a scarf absolutely irrelevant. Dear John, it's fear on Lachy. To be clear. Finally, I would like to recall the data presented by Minister Patkowski. It pays off for us, it pays off for us. And Poland, if it gets these funds and uses them wisely, if it does not listen to the wrong suggestions, which we have heard a lot here, has a chance to achieve a standard of living...Polish citizens have a chance to achieve a standard of living, which compared to the western part of Europe in Poland we had maybe 500 years ago. That's the scale of the challenge. This is the measure of success we can achieve. And finally, Dear John, by appealing to you to decide to revise your decision, I want to tell you again, remind you, as Marshal Piłsudski used to say: take it, not to say. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u197	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Christopher Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u198	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Scenarios of some films, especially comedy films, are based on an unexpected change of places, roles, situations. We by many, also by the majority of this House, are called Eurosceptics, and in recent years we have been working for two so that Poland does not appear to be a total Eurosceptic. We are called polexitists by many, and in recent times we have been making sure that Poland is not so thought about, that something bad is going to happen here and maybe polexit is quite likely. Last year, when Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and a group of other European leaders presented a firm position, also drawing the perspective of a veto, so that the money that the European Union was planning for its signatories would not be dependent on the rule of law, then many were ripping their robes apart, saying that it was not Poland's right state to block this money, these huge means to not reconcile and veto if it were considered that the rule of law was difficult to assess, even in the EU perspective, the phenomenon was the key to the transfer of funds. Later, with undiscovered satisfaction, I saw these faces of opposition politicians, when Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki returned with a shield, when it was already known that Poland could become a beneficiary of PLN 770 billion and the Union at the end of last year outlined the framework for obtaining and distributing these funds. Then I got the impression that some would look for a hole in the whole, that cancer would withdraw from these earlier declarations and instead of just like Poles, together enjoy the fact that we have a chance for something big, for some decisive start with COVID-19 and support after COVID-19, a crowd of malcontents appeared. The apogee of this movement of malcontents could be observed at the beginning of this year, when it turned out that Poland could actually become a beneficiary of PLN 770 billion, that the other countries of the European Union would agree to do so in a short time, and we too, by undertaking appropriate ratification. Then there was a bottom-up movement in the opposition, that it should be dropped at all costs. I suspect, although it has been difficult for me, because I usually think well of other people and their intentions... Here it became clear that this success of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, this success of Law and Justice, the United Right and after all Poland, is not everything. So they began to look for opportunities to bring about some crisis among the ruling coalition, to the government crisis, perhaps to the perspective of earlier elections. The tool for this was to test Poland's acceptance of these billions of zlotys. Big change, unexpected change. Indeed, earlier elections are an opportunity for those who fall under the ground, who are drowning. But there was a board on the water. Instead of grasping it and drifting to the shore, they grabbed the board so that the government and the United Right, who wanted to manage it well. The opposition will only lead to self-destruction because it tries to defend the idea of earlier elections at all costs. It is so much for her that she tries to convince Poles that these 770 billions will go into the pockets of the rulers. And Poles know their own. After all, when we announced It was, like, six years ago that we were going to lower our retirement age, and then we did it. When we announced that we would support Polish families with the addition of 500+, we did it too. Later we even extended this program to every Polish child. I am no longer talking about how we can afford this because we are pursuing a fiscal policy appreciated by other countries in the world and independent institutions, and we are well equipped with this public penny. And that's why you're so sure that if we're the ones who're gonna be At least at the beginning, but I hope that during the whole period of this EU perspective You distribute that penny, we'll all succeed. It was such a success. For example, a tax reduction of 17% was also a success of not collecting tax from young people until they were twenty-six years old. This is all evidence that we can manage money. And that's the state. Not on your arm. That is why the story has been invented that we will spend this money for our own, that we will deposit this money in our accounts, that Poles will have to present themselves with party cards in order to gain some money. There were a lot of accusations here that we differentiate local governments. Well, I'll give you the first example on the shore. Today, three local government officials The president, the mayor and your mayor received a medal for the merits of the local government. But one of these self-government officials, the president, is a longtime associate and a parent of Mrs. Rose Thun MEP, who recently... Well, of course, she argued differently, but I feel that she had had had had enough of this constant translation in front of her colleagues from the European Union, who asked: "What is going on in Poland?" Why is the Civic Coalition a brake on the European Union Reconstruction Fund? And she resigned from this formation. Well, this man, not very close to us in terms of his views, has received such a medal. For what? For effectively applying for funds from various government programmes and using these funds. After all, we did not give him this money because he was a coworker of your MEP Rose Thun for many years, but because they are needed by the people of Starachowice, because they are mentioned here. And right now, this government is developing great. In addition, I follow how many agreements are signed regarding whether it's the Government Local Investment Fund, whether it's the Government Road Development Fund, whether it's many, many other programs, including social ones. And I observed that at least in my voivodeship there is no difference between self-government or from one option or another, one color or another. Everyone gets it because they're performing... As they apply, they are involved in matters relevant to their local authorities. And that's what's gonna happen to the money. Did we ask any local government, when we have already spent over 200 billion PLN on support and protection against the effects of the COVID... No, they went to save jobs. Not those who are from PiS either from the Agreement or from Solidarna Polska, but all of them. And we've protected those few million jobs. We were given as a pattern. That's the kind of support. Here some say, "Why the haste, why do we care so much about each month?" That's because time is extremely important here. Just as it was important in spring and summer last year, when the Union was not very eager to allocate funds to protect its members from the effects of COVID. Just as the Union, through its institutions, has not been very eager to conclude agreements for Europeans to buy vaccines. There we saw very badly what a month of delay meant. Ladies and gentlemen, High Senate, today I purposely asked the President, Senator Bogdan Klich, these questions, whether during the joint committee meeting you were discussing the example of those more than 20 countries that have already ratified this decision. Because it was possible to have a solid discussion whether the money that the Union would raise would not be embezzled or turned against the signatories, for example. There will be a communal debt. But Senator Bogdan Klich said that there was no such discussion. I'd understand that. Those fears I would understand. You say that in June the Union will already be able to deal with the techniques of obtaining these funds. But June is also late, because there are countries in the world like the United States, which have allocated a shot now, please correct me, perhaps already more than a trillion dollars, so that their economy will quickly come out of this crisis, so that it will enter those markets that have been forgotten or lost out there. We have to hurry to get these markets back. That's what this is all about. Poland should also be the beneficiary of this great plan. You are also people of little faith. After all, this money will be spent in the perspective of at least 2021 and 2027. So tell me, do you not believe that you will win the elections in 2023 and it will be up to you to spend this money? If you believed it, you'd want to take the money, because there'd be such a prospect that you'd spend it. There was a song, probably in the 1970s, Gondoliers from the Vistula River. Not everyone knew her, not everyone in Europe. At the moment Europe is probably writing about Poles, unfortunately thanks to this specific ratification opposition, another song It's called the Marauders of the Vistula. I hope that's not the case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u199	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think we should start from a certain point of view, explain once again, maybe not the Senate's ruling coalition, because it's going to be difficult here, but to those who listen to us, see what we're actually talking about. This is the law which allows the ratification of the Council Decision of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing the previous decision. This is the Council's December decision. This decision is about the income side, that is simply, defining this simple vocabulary, how and how to raise money. So he's talking about the income side. This is important for further analysis. What else is the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 February 2021 establishing an Instrument for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity. This regulation in turn provides a tool for spending money, first at EU level, then at national level. This instrument is commonly referred to as the Fund for Reconstruction, and this national envelope related to the spending of money from this Fund for Reconstruction is called the National Plan for Reconstruction. So once again, the income side is what we're doing right now, and the spending side is what we're not doing or shouldn't be doing right now. We will deal with this on the occasion of a resolution, which will be the next item of the programme. I think it's clear, obviously. But that has to be said clearly, because if someone then, well, I don't know, it's like some kind of redecise literally. He'll get up here and talk about this National Reconstruction Plan, which means he doesn't know what he's talking about. I mean, he knows what he wants to talk about, but it has nothing to do with this bill. Once again: we are talking about how the European Commission 'Cause she's the one who's mostly committed to it. It is to raise money for all countries, and therefore all countries must ratify it. I mean, he says how much and how much. And about how to spend this money, which is about the spending page, among other things. will say National Plan for Reconstruction But he is not yet in the Sejm, and he is probably not going to be considered as a National Reconstruction Plan, and he will not be in the Senate, and there may be implementing laws on this plan, even very much needed, but that is another matter for the future. Next issue, a formal issue: can the ratification law be supplemented by amendments? Most constitutionalists, the Constitutional Tribunal, as well as practice say no. Some people write opinions This is the case, depending on who you write for, it gives such opinions, well, quite vague, in which it states that yes, but also clearly writes in these opinions e.g. such a phrase: it is possible to supplement the content of the Act approving ratification by supplementing it with the preamble to the amendment, because the preamble also refers to the intention and values of the contracting parties to the international agreement. So there must be matter and the range preserved. Material, material is here. And here we go again to the beginning. It's how to raise money, not how to spend it. This is matter. And the question is, what? But it's about to happen. In the case of an international agreement, the amendment is, of course, possible, but we need to think about what we are talking about, because they cannot interfere primarily with the fact that the President is given the agreement to ratify and cannot interfere in such a way that such consent will make it conditional. It must be absolute consent, strictly timed. Amendments in the case of ratification law can, theoretically, and practically rarely be applied. Here are examples of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Yes, but in that case, the amendments weren't in the ratification bill... the declarations, I'm sorry. These declarations may be formally referred to as reservations from the point of view of Treaty law. In fact, such reservations in our system are expressed in resolutions accompanying the ratification act. The ratification law is, let's say, a pure one article that permits ratification, and a second article that specifies the date of entry into force of that law. It actually appears, e.g. in the case of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, where these declarations, and in fact, formally, the reservations were included in the resolution... The same was true of the Framework Convention on the Protection of Minority Rights. It is interesting to see such laws or such treaties, generally multilateral, in which the Treaty itself is open, precisely framework, and gives the possibility to choose what the State wants to be involved in. Then such a declaration binding on certain points, and not on the whole of this menu, which the Treaty gives, is also included in the resolution. She is then, of course, in the Official Journal of the Laws attached to the contents of the treaty. But here we are dealing with a completely different situation, because formally speaking, this is not an international agreement, what we allow to ratify. We merely choose the ratification procedure as indicated in the International Agreements Act in Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a. It reads in short: the European Union's legislation is ratified, i.e. we are not talking about the international agreements referred to, among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The third paragraph of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In that third paragraph, Article. 311 is talking about how to deal with own resources decisions. And this is not the first such act, because we already have two times through the so-called. we have allowed the President to take a ratification act and ratify previous decisions. There were no amendments, no preambles, no additions to this law. It was the years 2008-2015, it was a 7-year cycle. Question is, why wasn't this mentioned at the time? And the last one in 2015 went through the Sejm unanimously. Why wasn't that mentioned then? Not because they were different than this decision, just because then there was just another opposition, it was not a total opposition that tried to destroy everything, it was a logical opposition. Simple and concrete... PiS did not then oppose the agreement to ratify for a simple reason, because it was then beneficial for Poland. And this decision is also beneficial for Poland. The next question is: is the preamble any exception to this principle, which applies when it comes to amendments, namely the lack of amendments to such acts, and certainly not in the wording of the Act itself? Well, he is no exception, for every preamble is an amendment. The amendment to the law is also a change in the order of articles, the transfer of an article e.g. from the material part to the final part or to the transition or vice versa. The preamble is an amendment, as you can see here in this text. I'll talk about it in a minute. It can even be a very extensive amendment with a much broader content than the law itself. To sum up the formal issues, I would like to say that we agree to ratify the European Union legal act under the special procedure added to the Act on international agreements. Already to the international agreements themselves, to the laws on their ratification, very rarely any amendments are added, and if any, in the accompanying resolutions, not in the ratification law. And here I just can't imagine what these amendments would be. Because what exactly is the reservation, the amendment, the declaration? She, for example. states why the State concerned will apply the international agreement in this respect differently or how the State understands it and indicates in the resolution accompanying the ratification act why otherwise this act, I would say, understand. Incidentally, sometimes these reservations are quite specific and very important. Because please note that the agreement on good neighbourhood and mutual cooperation between Poland and the Federal Republic of Germany in 1991 did not contain certain provisions concerning citizenship, wealth, among others. the return of assets, etc. and there were two letters, Minister Skubiszewski and Genscher, and one wrote that because this agreement doesn't exist, this case has expired... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...and the other, Skubiszewski, rightly wrote that because it's not in the contract, this case is open. [[Mr. Senator, time.]] But that's another matter. That was a formal issue, Mr. Marshal. [[Voice from the room: But this is 13 minutes.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Okay, well, for the meth lab, much less, we're gonna take it in the next speech. Thank you for the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u201	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, 5 minutes, additional speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wouldn't take the floor again, but I was provoked by Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, who had a very personal speech. I would like to respond to these thesis on important matters that Senator Grzegorz Bierecki wanted to make in his speech. Dear Grzegorz, your speech convinced me only and only that such a way of taking a stand on this matter, i.e. abstaining from the vote, and thus not supporting this mechanism of own resources, is right, because we are going into a land, into a future that we are not even able to accurately estimate, predict, and the effects of such a decision may exceed the ad hoc benefits that are now appearing on the horizon. That is why I maintain my position as I will vote on this matter. But as a historian, a humble doctor of history I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is very impressive to refer to the Marshal of Piłsudski, but this phrase is not to be said! It was the favorite maxim of the Marshal of Piłsudski, which he used especially in his relations with the Austrian interview, from which he took the money, but he considered that it did not give rise to any obligations on his way to independence. However, this is a rather risky thesis for this simple reason that we live in completely different realities over 100 years later. And if anyone thinks you can, for example. take money and then ignore the judgments of the TSEU or the decisions of the European Commission regarding the allocation of specific tranches of these funds, it shows deep naivety to me. Yes, High Izbo, it won't, it won't. Please note that the Union is experiencing many crises, but after every crisis integration is tightened up, it is getting closer slowly, systematically, it is a long way. Whether it's a good road or a bad road, it's obviously a matter of assessment and we can discuss it here for a long time. But you need to know these mechanisms. Finally, we must remember that Marshal Piłsudski acted in other times. In today's Europe, the Brest Process would trigger... Well, I don't want to tell you what kind of comparisons the countries would be to if this were the case. And Berez Kartuska, where the socialists and the nationalists and the Ukrainians, the Ukrainian nationalists... Well, in the reality of today's Europe, it's completely unimaginable and it's also... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and you have to remember that, too. So that it is worth knowing sometimes what is quoted, in what context and what results. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And Mr. Senator, I would ask you not to comment. You can sign up and argue with me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u203	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u204	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Here, of course... Perhaps I will continue this thought which my predecessor, Senator Czerwiński, said, namely, that the situation in which you are proposing today the preamble and for this preamble you are fighting for when there are legal doubts... It is known that in every case several lawyers will give different opinions on the same subject. And we know that even if this preamble passes, she will return to the Sejm later. I think in the Seym we're going to try, as a government majority, to change this Senate preamble. But, ladies and gentlemen, as Senator Czerwiński said, we have already voted on such ratifications. And I found it on the Internet, not hard... Mr. Marshal Borusewicz was then a marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Act of 10 April 2015 on the ratification of the Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the system of the European Union's own resources. And this bill, adopted by the Sejm, the Senate... The Senators of the Civic Platform were also senators in 2015, in April 2015, to be precise when the government and the majority of the government, the parliament and the Senate had PSL and the Civic Platform. And this law, for which you voted, was also a 2-Article act, very short: consents to the ratification of the decision by the President of the Republic of Poland. And the second article: the law enters into force after 14 days. President Bronisław Komorowski signed this bill. And, ladies and gentlemen, that was the bill he sent... Today's government, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, sent the bill just as the government did with the involvement of the Civic Platform and the PSL. And you didn't have any objections to the constitutional procedure at the time. And you also supported, you supported, you supported, you supported, you supported, you supported, you supported, you supported, you supported, you And, as Senator Czerwiński said, we are also then, as Law and Justice, in the Seym and in the Senate... I wasn't in the Senate at the time, but Senator Sagatowska, Senator Czudowska or Senator Rabbit Were there then, or was there Senator Grzegorz Bierecki sitting here? I could still keep going. They were then and also voted in favour of this law, because it meant accepting money from the 7-year budget of the European Union for Poland. And then there were no objections, then no one was talking about breaking the law, then no one was talking about any doubts. And we would like to see that, since today another government, another coalition, another majority of the Sejm, which also negotiated even more money than then, in 2015, with different circumstances... Because here, in this bill that we are debating today, there is not only money from the Reconstruction Fund, but also money for the 7-year budget. Because they're like two sources. And today... In the Seym, you made numerous amendments, which, fortunately, were rejected, also due to some discretion of the left, which then supported... And in the Senate, knowing that you can't defend it with substance, that you can't... These amendments, which have been tabled, would in practice have brought nothing if they had been accepted. You've come up with a preamble that means even less than the amendments. The analogies he was making... I don't remember if Senator Zdrojewski or Marshal Borusewicz had any reservations in the various international ratifications... Yes, there have been reservations. But, ladies and gentlemen, these were our Polish declarations that we exclude certain treaty provisions. We didn't want to accept certain things, and it was legal. Well, what aren't we taking today? Don't we want to take that money? And there's a certain thesis behind all of this, a lying thesis that how it's ratified, how we take the money... Because nobody officially says they don't want the money. But there's such a thing that if PiS spends that money, he'll probably cheat, steal it, I don't know who would cheat, who would steal it, that they'll be mis-exploited. Of course, if the Civic Platform had spent it, it would have done the best, but if it had been spent by the government of law and justice, it would have been done unfairly somehow. I would like to remind all my colleagues from the Civic Platform that we spent money during the 2005-2007 term and there were no scandals. No one said that money was spent badly. We've been in the last five years of government. Well, almost 6 years of spending a lot of money on this 7-year budget that ended last year. And this time there were no major reservations from the European Commission either. You didn't raise anything like that, and neither did the local authorities. Some of the funds were spent by voivodship seymikas, and there are various coalitions. In part is ruled by the PiS, alone or, as in Lower Silesia, in a coalition with non-participants, but within the framework of regional operational programmes in the Seyms were also co-operated in various other constellations, with the left or with the PSL. Yeah, I didn't follow it in the Seyms, but there are different constellations and coalitions. And no one has ever questioned the acceptance of European money because of any potential fraud, potential lies. And why did you build such a structure that you have to make adjustments? 'Cause you're behind the money, right? But, but, but... It's still multiplying. Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing here but substance. A lot of my friends and a lot of my friends at the PiS tried to explain it, to respond to it, to explain themselves. Senator Czerwiński said that in his second speech he would refer to this in substance. And Jurek will probably take that into account, because his speeches are always very substantive. And again he will prove, for example, that this money will be shared fairly, justly, just as it was shared before. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not the point. This is about politics. At one point, the platform started to fall apart, internal problems started in the Civic Platform, friction on the Budka line. Schetyna, etc., etc. It was thought that during the ratification the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki would be overthrown, that there would be elections, and in the meantime there would be a technical government. Of course, if this technical government had been created, the state would have passed this law without all these preambles, as proposed by the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. To be honest, what I'm talking about is not a secret. Well, there were interviews of the various politicians of the Platform and the PSL, who were simply saying, well, we were hoping that we would overthrow the government, that the majority would change, and then we would adopt this ratification ourselves, and we would share the money. And if you share, will it be fair, fair? Well, you won't get to power until... And you often say, including Marshal Grodzki, that there is a democratic majority here in the Senate. The elections are once every four years. You have to win this election, and then you make decisions, and then you split some resources if there's something to share. We as the Law and Justice have won elections many times, and we have lost them many times, because that is the case in democracy. No one always wins, no one always loses. Today we have a full democratic mandate to rule. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has negotiated really large resources. It is simply in the interest of Poland to adopt these measures, and then to spend them as best as possible, Ladies and Gentlemen. And the way these funds are spent will be described by the National Reconstruction Plan, which will describe various types of implementation laws. This was served by hundreds of hours of consultations that Minister Buda was conducting with local government officials. Parliamentary clubs also made their proposals, partly agreed, partly not. Some of these measures are kind of marked by the European Commission. I'm talking about the Green Deal, the digitalization. It's like it's a good idea what these measures need to be spent on. In the case of parts we have some freedom of spending, and it is up to us, depending on Poland, what we will spend these funds on. Ladies and gentlemen, we were also in opposition. It just so happens that we were in opposition when the previous agreements were ratified, in 2008 and in 2015. And then Law and Justice just voted for, didn't say... [[Ten minutes.]] I'm almost done. ... It didn't say we wouldn't vote for it, because with that money, it's gonna be run by the Platform, and they're probably gonna trick us, rob us. And I would very much ask you to support this bill without any weirdness, so that you do not report any bizarre preambles that in the Seym, I hope, would be rejected if they passed in the Senate. They will not have the slightest impact on the spending of these funds. Don't translate your own political problems that are out there... Today we know that whatever the Senate decision is, whether it be with or without this amendment, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki will not be overthrown, and this money is needed in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u205	Thank you very much. You're welcome. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz in correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u206	Dear Senator Krzysztof Mrozie! You applied the figure of rhetoric. You say that I voted twice in favour of ratifying the law, therefore It's like this figure suggests a rhetorical one. I'm going to vote differently now. Well, Mr. Senator, then I voted in favour, and now I will vote in favour. [[Just don't make a recital.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u207	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. 5 minutes, because this is the second statement, I understand. Yes or no? [[Two, five minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Let's be brief. Let's cling to the wording of the country's preamble. That's the fourth paragraph. The fourth and fifth subparagraphs could be treated as a single thought. Let us quote, not entirely of course, the second, third and fourth paragraphs combined with the fifth paragraphs. For the sake of the future and well-being of our Homeland, the authorities of the Republic of Poland declare that funds from the Fund for Reconstruction, etc. The authorities of the Republic of Poland undertake that the funds from this Fund will be spent, etc. For this purpose, a Monitoring Committee will be set up, etc. What exactly are we talking about here? That Poland as a state, by the way, the authorities of the Republic of Poland... in particular the right to represent all the authorities of the Republic of Poland. It's the power. It's the power. It's the power. But seriously, the Republic is committed to certain activities here. With what? When you spend that money. What's the bill about? What is this ratification about? About how to collect the money. I just said that. That's not the matter. It is not possible to insert in amendments, and in particular in the preamble, something which is not related to the matter of the law, and in this case the act of the European Union. If there are already any reservations or declarations, whether in the preamble or in the article, in the material provision, they must be addressed to the contractor. Here, as you can see, the contractor is to be the Polish state, but it is not the Polish country that will collect money. This will be done by the European Commission. In your reservations, you wanted to oblige the European Commission to... what is she supposed to do when she collects that money? What do you mean, Poets Dear? What's with the poets? [[A voice from the room: You wouldn't understand it anyway.]] Yes. You don't get it. There's still a cherry on the cake, first paragraph. I would like to quote you in full the first sentence: "In the eighteenth year of the membership of the Republic of Poland, the tension is growing "in the European Union, the whole Community has faced a huge challenge, which is the socio-economic crisis. Great, so this is how we're gonna date the era now, right? Not after Christ and before Christ, but since Poland entered the European Union. What does Poland's membership have to do with the socio-economic crisis? Well, here's where you tied it up. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no mention of COVID-19 in this preamble. In the decision in which we allow Mr President to ratify, of course, it is, according to reality, what it really is and why it is really this decision, which is really at the heart of it. It is certainly not about Poland entering the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, if this hasn't convinced you, maybe this is the last thing. We've been in a similar... I mean, not us physically, but the Senate was in a similar situation when the Treaty of Lisbon was ratified. The draft ratification law also contained a preamble and during the work it was simply abandoned. And a much more politically balanced draft treaty... I'm sorry. The Act authorising ratification came out in such a normal version, 2-Article. And the last... Maybe you shouldn't say "summary," because this should actually be the beginning. Why do we have to eat this frog? And it'll be pure politics and a pin just like that. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a special need party in Poland for a long time now. If they didn't have a presidential candidate, it was necessary to move the constitutional term of the vote so that the candidate could be changed. How they slept through the matter of working on the National Plan for Reconstruction, and others, from the opposition, did not... [[Voice from the room: 5 minutes! Hello!]] Then what? [[Five minutes, right?]] Then what? Then, ladies and gentlemen, we must move the entire building of legislation, throw it upside down so that this party can tell the public what should be done in the National Reconstruction Plan. Beautiful, but that's the next resolution, not here, because it's different matter, another bill. Thank you. Five minutes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u209	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Five minutes too.]] Five minutes, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u210	I didn't know there were more people here watching the time, but I also greet the clocks. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, actually, I could give up my speech, but because it's a five-minute commitment, I'll allow myself to say a few more words to you. And I would give up my speech after the excellent speech of my previous speaker, which I should actually sign, because I would like to say the same thing. Why are we here for hours and we're talking about a completely invalid preamble that's supposed to be some sort of fig leaf? This letter is to hide the embarrassing problem of the party that the senators have prepared for us here. Well, Senator Czerwinski explained it well. Undoubtedly, we are dealing with the advantage of the party interest, presented for many hours, over the interests of the state, over the national interests. The Senate stood at the level of the task and indeed we had an excellent debate here. We have exposed the mac and infertility of this proposal, which has been presented here. And I hope that after what you have heard here, you will decide to withdraw from it, because it is a shame to present such a thing to Poles and it is a shame to present such a thing throughout Europe. You want to buy a mockery so that again in European newspapers they write that Poland is not only the last country that has ratified this important instrument, it has done something that no one understands and does not know what it was for. So consider, please, whether you really want the Polish Senate and the Polish state to be the subject of mockery. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u211	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It will not be résumé, because I do not have such ambitions, but once again: the government has delayed ratification by more than 4 months, and we are debating this within our own scheduled competences. But I'm gonna start with two things that matter. Well, Senator Jackowski is partly right. I mean, we accept today that we give the President the right to sign up for ratification, which creates a new financial tool in the European Union, a tool for joint debt collection. I remember when in the 1960's or 1970's the question was, what do you have in common with your workplace? And there was often an answer: loan money. We will undoubtedly bond with the Union a little bit harder, but more strongly with a certain element, i.e. we are bound by a joint debt, a joint commitment. And in this respect, You have to be aware of that. Second thing. I do not take note of suggestions that fall in this room and are completely untrue. The opposition not only crossed its fingers for positive negotiations on this fund, but also in the European Parliament and Jan Olbrycht, and Janusz Lewandowski, and our fellow Members fought to make sure that these funds were really included in our package. They talked about it, discussed it, made rules, rules, etc., etc. And we had the satisfaction that Poland no matter what government In short, she received these measures. So I want to thank our MEPs, too, because they deserve it too. In short, they were working on it. If we use the work of some author, composer, etc., then we need to know this work, give the name of the author. The Gondoliers of the Vistula River carry sand with their shoulders, Mr. Senator, it was unlike the Venetian gondoliers who carried tourists and sang songs in love. Dzikowski Author, Krajewski, composer. I'll add right away that those gondola men from the Vistula River were without an address. We're going to talk about money in a moment, and we're going to talk about those 75,000 apartments that aren't enough to cover the gap that exists here. But it is worth noting how the subconscious works in this matter. The mentioned Krzysztof Dzikowski was Along with Wojciech Młynarski, our greatest singer A co-founder of a cabaret with such an important title for today's debate: People will buy it. Maybe talking about the Senate delaying something is like, maybe somebody's gonna buy it. But the facts are completely different. The facts are that we work fairly, responsibly and without any doubt in accordance with the Constitution and within the framework in question. Finally, I have to say something that I don't understand anymore. The suggestion was: what would we do if we were in a situation where we were in? Well, I'll answer that. If the Civic Coalition were to rule today, and if this part of the room were to say that you would spend money fairly and transparently, then we would do so. accepted, for obvious reason. [[Voice from the room: Oh, yeah...]] No doubt about it! [[Joy in the Chamber]] No doubt about it! And no malicious smiles. Because it's obvious to us that money seems transparent, responsible and fair. What about Delete it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u213	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal, in corrigendum mode, I'd like to... Were you mentioned? [[No, but I'd like to correct...]] You weren't mentioned by name, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But the corrigendum is a different mode, Mr. Marshal... corrected only...]] The discussion is closed. For the sake of order, I inform you that the Senators of Bieda, Tyszkiewicz, Gawada, Godyla, Szwed, Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Majer, Pęcherz, Mątkow have made speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I'm declaring half an hour off. After the break, we will proceed to the vote. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 50 to 18 minutes 23]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, if I could just have a moment of patience, because one of the senators is stuck in the senate elevator behind this wall, and we need to get him out. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 23 to 18 minutes 26]] I'm calling a 20-minute break because the service needs to get here. And a friend who doesn't get that floor per pedes... Please refrain from commenting. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 26 to 18 minutes 45]] Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request an amendment to the Act, a minority of the committees have submitted a proposal for adoption of this law without amendment of Senate Print No 391 A. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. [[Voice from the room: Against.]] We are voting on the minority's motion to adopt a law without amendment. [[Voice from the room: Red.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 47 for, 49 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 80]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we proceed to the vote on the proposal for an amendment to the law. The amendment complements the Preamble Act setting out a framework for interpretation for future rules on the spending of funds from the National Reconstruction Plan, referring to the principles of justice, transparency and the rule of law. [[Voice from the room: Za.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] ...49 for, 49 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 81]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] In view of the results of the vote... Excuse me? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the room: Ho, ho, ho, you have a dilemma...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm quoting lips. Article 1a 54: In the event that all proposals or amendments submitted to the Act are rejected or the resolution on the Act is not adopted in its entirety, the Marshal shall put to the vote a motion for rejection of the Act and, in the event that this application is not accepted, a proposal for the Act without amendments. Is this all clear to the ladies and gentlemen? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I therefore declare that the vote on... [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Mr. Marshal, I am very sorry, but we have information from Senator Alexander Pociej that there is no connection.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: He's in the middle of a vote.]] [[Voice in the hall: There's a vote.]] [[Voice in the hall: There's a vote, no way.]] [[Voice from the room: Absolutely.]] [[If there's no connection, you'd have to...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I've announced the results of the vote and the reconnaissance at the moment, the Rules of Procedure do not provide for... [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor: Mr. Marshal, but the senator doesn't have a connection at the moment, so before the next vote also... to know that...]] Well, if it's about the next vote, I'm announcing a three-minute break, and I'm asking you to tell me that everyone's got the right call. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 49 to 18 minutes 52]] Please take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] In accordance with paragraph 1a, Article 1a is replaced by the following: 54, on the agenda for the vote, at the moment - Please pay attention. I put to the vote a motion to reject the law and, in the absence of this proposal, a proposal to adopt the law without amendments. The first vote concerns a motion to reject the law. Please activate the razor. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One Senator from the remote... See if he cast his vote. Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted in favour of no one against the one-senator. [[Voting No 82]] In the light of the results of the vote, I am holding a vote on the adoption of the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, 98 were in favour... [[Applause]] ...no one was against, two senators held back. [[Voting No 83]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom. High Izbo, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a second reading of the draft resolution condemning the actions of the Belarusian authorities against the fundamental principles of international law and considering it as item twenty-nine of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the second reading of the draft opinion on the principles for the use of the European Union's Instrument for Reconstruction and Enhancing Immunity. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. Print No 397 and report No 397 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Bogdan Klich, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am pleased to present a report from the meeting of the joint committees, legislative and foreign affairs, which dealt with the draft opinion on how the Fund for Reconstruction should be used in Poland from a formal point of view. It is, of course, about the principles of the use of the European Union's Instrument for Reconstruction and Enhancing Immunity. During the committee meeting, many amendments to the original proposal were made by the Legislative Bureau, which in a large majority of the amendments were accepted by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and introduced into the text of the opinion. You have these amendments in print no. 397 S, integrated with the full text of the opinion. We have already discussed many of the issues that this opinion is talking about in the course of a 7-hour discussion on the ratification of the Reconstruction Fund. About a recital that wasn't accepted... They are all a development of those provisions, while some speak about things that could not be introduced in the preamble because of its non-normative nature. Thus, the opinion expresses the conviction of the applicants and of the joint committees that local authorities should have 40% at their disposal appropriations which are intended for individual parts, for individual components of the National Reconstruction Plan. This is the expectation from local governments, which was discussed in a very large number of previous meetings in our House, during a hearing with representatives of different backgrounds, including the local community. This is also the subject of discussions between local governments and the government. In my opinion, this expectation is fully justified because the funds from this fund will go towards the development of local communities. Self-governments have the best experience in this area because they allocate European funds and then manage them. This opinion also deals with health protection, as the applicants believe that the funds allocated to the NPOs for this purpose are too small. They should be increased and dedicated to both strategic objectives, as stated by the National Reconstruction Plan, which was sent to Brussels on 30 April, the last version. The aim is to ensure that these measures, firstly, contribute to the reconstruction of the health care system and, secondly, could be used for the education and development of medical personnel, so that the Polish health system actually comes out of this pandemic reinforced and not significantly weakened. This is what KPO funds are meant for. There's a speech here. also the need to clearly identify which institutions and tasks can be financed from the loan part and which of the grant part of the Fund for Reconstruction. We all know that when it comes to grant funds, i.e. non-refundable funds, they are used to support institutions that do not earn profit. Those who make a profit can have a return on their funds, i.e. loans. We therefore propose that in the draft NPOs, very specific measures should be assigned to the various activities. One of the grant parts, the other of the loan part . and in order to adopt the principle that the funds will be transferred to beneficiaries in the form of grants for those tasks which are in deficit and in the form of reimbursements for those tasks which are linked to economic activity when deciding on their allocation to specific actions. The draft opinion could not find our expectation of supplementing the provisions of the CPO on the rule of law, i.e. the enforcement of all judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, as well as issues concerning other areas in which this rule of law is not respected. I would like to remind you that the regulation is called the Conditional Regulation on the principle of money for the rule of law, and that it can be applied if there were even one case of unlawful disposal of funds from the Fund for Reconstruction. It therefore seems obvious that such a provision should be included in this draft resolution. Finally, we are talking about the Monitoring Committee. The Monitoring Committee should include both representatives of the government and representatives of the Sejm and the Senate, representatives of the local government and representatives of socio-economic organisations, all those who have not only engaged in the work of the SPOs, in the opinion of the SPOs... I have, I can show you dozens of such documents that we have received, and I also refer to the meetings of the various committees, as well as the meetings of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budgets, the meetings at which we have listened to the opinions of these communities. I mean both local governments and employers, as well as NGOs, trade union organisations and university representatives. We believe that these entities, in their legal language, should, more commonly speaking, identify themselves, should elect their own representatives, who would later be appointed by the Minister of Development to the membership of the Monitoring Committee. This draft resolution also refers to the powers that the Monitoring Committee should have in order to effectively supervise the implementation of all projects that will be carried out under the Reconstruction Fund, implemented through the Fund for Reconstruction. In item 6, you will find our expectation in turn. It is quite common and seems also shared by the government That an implementation law should be drawn up with provisions that guarantee a fair, non-discriminatory way of distributing funds to anyone. This draft opinion speaks also that the Supreme Audit Chamber should exercise cyclical supervision over the implementation of the National Reconstruction Plan throughout its implementation. The rest are already more detailed expectations, but very significant, because both the criteria that will concern the qualification of individual projects for implementation and the criteria that will then be related to their evaluation must be clear and transparent, must be clearly formulated so that there is no doubt that anyone with a finger indicates who can and who should not carry out projects from the Fund for Reconstruction. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft opinion will be examined as any other resolution of ours, like resolutions, because such a procedure is enshrined in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. I would like to ask all of you to support this draft resolution, which is an opinion, because in our opinion, he expresses the real ideas that should guide everyone, regardless of who they represent, whether they represent the rulers or the opposition. Regardless of who is currently in power, who is exercising this authority, it should put into effect those indications which have been written in this draft opinion. I would like to say once again that the joint committees, Mr Marshal, have recommended that this opinion be adopted by the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u216	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Are there any questions? There isn't. Thank you. The government representative hasn't arrived yet... Good. We'll take a short break by 7:20. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 10 to 19 minutes 22]] Does the government representative wish to take the floor on the draft opinion presented? I address you to Deputy Minister Waldemar Buda. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u217	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! Of course, thank you very much for what happened just now. This vote shows that we can unite around things that should unite, and there are people who have decided to vote in the name of the good of Poland, not of the party interest, in favour of ratification without the slightest amendments and comments. I'm on my way from a meeting with the Commission, and I've given this information... Unfortunately, we are the last, Austria has passed us by a few hours. Nevertheless, it is good that this was done without any legal controversy, and we would certainly have legal complications in connection with this preamble. As regards the draft opinion of the Senate, I would like to say yes. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a non-binding opinion and it could be very, very selective and very mild, but I must point out that if the exact same content were in the legislative proposal, it would be incompatible with at least a few legal documents, as well as with European regulations. And that's the way it has to be treated, and it can't be judged that if it's an opinion, then we can include all the data or information even false or not in accordance with the rules. In particular, the procedure in which the content of the national recovery plan is determined is set out in Regulation 2021/241, in which it is clearly indicated in which temporal coexistence the content of the plan is determined. Today we have a technical dialogue, before we had a public consultation, then, by 30 April, it was formal to submit a plan to the Commission. There is an evaluation of the Commission and an opinion and then a referral to the Council. And here there is no room to condition the content of the National Plan for Reconstruction by Parliament's decision. This would bind and deprive the Commission of the powers conferred on it by the Regulation. Consequently, in the end, the Commission and the Member State in the technical dialogue decides on the final content of each national recovery plan and ultimately manages the document itself. I will remind you that the national recovery plans of each country will be centrally managed by the European Commission. And now the directive of the parliament of a Member State on the content of the plan is in contrast to this regulation, which speaks about how this plan is set out in the text, in its assumptions, as it improves, negotiates, modifies. Therefore, I cannot agree with this and even if it is an opinion, I do not sign it because it is incompatible with the regulation. The same applies to records that say that the grant or loan should be one way or another. There's exactly the same point here. This is the content of the National Reconstruction Plan. She can't be determined by the decision of the Sejm or the Senate. It cannot be the subject of a law which would be adopted contrary to what was submitted to the European Commission by an executive body in the form of a Council of Ministers. That's why I'm against it. This, of course, does not have any effect, but it does bear witness to the work of the House, the Parliament. In my opinion, it should lead to this... If this is the intention of the Senate to be expressed in the opinion Of course, you have every right to do so, and I do not question it to the slightest extent. This should be in accordance with the rules. If you change the shape in this direction... I am prepared to discuss such intentions and even express a positive opinion, but in this form, in these records. Unfortunately, we can't do that. There is a reference to my further remark to the provisions of the future law, which is branded in the National Plan for Reconstruction and which will arise in the future. From the lawyer's point of view... I would like to find someone who would express an opinion on how to assess the expectations of future legislation, determine its content before it arises. In fact, it could be passed on to any other matter and said so: today the Senate may give an opinion on the adoption of some laws by Parliament, by the Sejm and determine the content of these laws. What does that have to do with anything? Is it possible to put pressure on the parliament or the executives to submit such a project, rather than another project that would end up in the Senate? I mean, it's a reversal. The role of the Senate in the legislative process is precisely described in the Constitution. The Constitution tells us at what stage the Senate's legislative process is in the role of evaluating material that has already been converted by the Sejm. The initiative cannot be reversed in this way, we cannot point to the content of a possible legislative act which could be addressed to the Sejm, which could, for example, be addressed. Council of Ministers. We can't agree on that. This would be the first situation that could give some sumptuousness to similar actions in other matters. As a matter of principle, you have to object to it, because it's... Fallandisation is an understatement, it is an unknown practice, which is in contrast to constitutional rules and the whole legislative process of reading, legislative initiative, the possibility for parliamentarians to submit draft laws. The Senate also has competence to submit draft laws, such a procedure is foreseen, but it should not do so on a declarative basis, on an appeal to the Lower House or the Executive Authority in the form of the Council of Ministers to submit a draft. This House may take the legislative initiative itself, of course it is possible, but the appeal on the content of a specific document to another House or to the Council of Ministers is inadmissible. For this reason, my opinion is absolutely negative. I hope that this document will not be of particular interest to the public, because we ratify it as the last country. I thank the senators, above all from the club of Law and Justice, who were very disciplined here and passed this very important bill, as well as those who are on the other side and reflected, found that the matter is so serious that it is worth breaking out of party discipline and saying: this is important for Poland, I am not interested in Boris Budka's directive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u218	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators can report... Minister, I'd like to ask you one more time... they'll be here to ask you a question. I can see the senator reporting. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. There you go. Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u219	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask the Minister about at what stage are the government work on the implementation law, which, as you have rightly said, is perhaps not marked, but signalled in the National Plan for Reconstruction.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u220	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u221	Of course, the work is going on, they're basically finishing up. In a few weeks' time, we will present a project that will go through the entire consultation process, including consultations at the Joint Government and Local Government Commission and the Social Dialogue Council. This is an implementation document combined with the implementation document of cohesion policy and will be a comprehensive implementation of both European measures. Then we are ready to discuss and all the elements that are contained in the opinion and which somehow suggest this law will be used as if in the work on the law. But it's in that order. As the bill appears, specific articles can be addressed and some changes can be proposed at the work stage of both the Sejm and the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u222	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Using this reasonably co-ordinated atmosphere, which is right now, I will have a proposal to then just stop working on this resolution. But whether, in view of what you have told us, there are some content here which, of course, will not have legal force, but can even put it in a negative light of the House because we simply look at those who are not familiar with the legislative process, or actually the combination of Polish law and EU law, and what we are allowed to do or what we could do, you could commit yourself to, for example. The main shortcomings of this resolution will simply point out, tell you how it should sound, what we should not do, for example. from this is the European Commission or, in general, the bodies of the European Union, in short, will help to heal not so much by legislative means, how much more substantively this resolution is, as soon as possible, so that we can get back to it, because we still meet on 10 June? It's about having our resolution, but it's about getting it done properly, in a nutshell.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u224	Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is my role to support the Senate in such positive actions as well. Therefore, if there was such expectation and such a commitment to me, then I am ready to keep these proposals... to keep the intentions of the Senate, but to lead to a situation in which this proposal for a resolution at least will be in accordance with the regulation. Therefore, if I have, say, at least a dozen hours, I am ready with my team in the Ministry of Funds to sit down and work it, even today until late night hours, so that it really is some kind of card of the Senate and an opinion of the National Plan for Reconstruction, and not some kind of embarrassing problem that may be in the future. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u225	Senator Magdalena Loven. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u226	Thank you very much. Minister, I'll make the reverse request. I can't imagine the legislative authority making its resolutions and laws dependent on what the government, which is controlled by parliament, will do. Therefore, I do not require such work from the Minister. I believe that we have prepared in the right way, with the full use of our knowledge, with the full use of the knowledge of our experts a resolution that we will proceed with.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u227	Thank you very much. That's the conclusion... I mean, it was a question to the Minister, the Minister said that he could, of course, work on it, but I would like to remind you that this is the second reading of the draft opinion on the principles of the use of the Instrument for Reconstruction and Enhancing Immunity set up by the European Union. The first reading took place at the committee meeting and there was a time, Mr Senator, to make such proposals and to impel this project. Are there any other questions? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. In that case... Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u228	It is difficult to combine, Mr Marshal, the Senate, the role of rapporteur and debater. Therefore, this statement will be very brief. I maintain all that I have presented earlier as rapporteur as a justification for this act, for this opinion. Perhaps it is worth explaining why, as an applicant, we took the form of an opinion, not the form of a resolution or a resolution. Just so Minister Buda wouldn't have the trouble he was talking about, which I understand is a problem for the Minister and his team. Namely, in the view of the Senate, it expresses what it considers to be the most important and what can be a certain indication of the direction of action that we consider appropriate. According to Senator Kochan, however, there is still a system in Poland where the legislative authority decides on the essential priorities and the executive authority simply executes them. The constitution has not yet been changed in this respect. The Minister knows that as well as any of us, anyone who knows this constitution. Yes, it is true that senators do not control power through interpellations, as Members do, but the Senate, as Chamber, has the full right to speak with a full voice about the principles and directions of the executive authority. And so, among other things. these guidelines on the content of the implementation law. The Minister has admitted I'm happy for you. That the work is advanced. I hope that the implementation law will soon see the light of day, will soon be submitted to us, but at this stage of our work we draw the attention of the government, including the Minister, who is talking to the senator at the moment. For what should be included in the implementation act. And as the House, we have every right to do that. I am therefore defending most of these provisions, the draft provisions that have been written here. Well, it's still just a project. Knowing that 2 minor amendments to this text will be tabled at the committee meeting. Thank you very much and I ask the High House to adopt this draft opinion on the implementation of the Instrument for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity, on the application of the Fund for Reconstruction in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u229	Thank you, Senator. Senator Alicia Chybick will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This project is a very good project. In my opinion, and in the opinion of most of my colleagues, it is worthy to be voted by the Senate. It contains provisions on the rules for the use of the Instrument for Reconstruction and Enhancing Immunity set up by the European Union. Congratulations to everyone who made those records. But I'd like to refer to... I think it would be worth it, Minister, to take advantage of what we propose. Perhaps then it would be easier to prepare this final document, especially since Brussels has been sent to Brussels so far, has been quite critical. It is written to you that there is not enough concrete and that there can be no discretionary spending here. There are strict rules here. Mr. Senator, you've already talked about this. - which are included in the article. 4 Regulation No 241 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 February 2021 The opinion we have prepared also applies to health care and I just want to focus on health care. By establishing an Instrument for Reconstruction and Reinforcing Resistance, we want to promote economic, territorial and social cohesion in the event of another crisis, a different pandemic, the return of the same pandemic or a natural disaster. Money should therefore be spent mainly on creating resilience to a new crisis at European Union level. It can't be discretionary, as I said. We've been offered 58 billion euros, 24 billion non-refundables, the rest in loans. And we should take that money 100%. and loans should be repaid by the state budget. Now I'm just gonna talk about health care. It was proposed after the amendments, because in the beginning it was supposed to be only EUR 4 billion out of those 58 billion... Overall, it is to be 18% from both groups of measures, i.e. non-refundable and loan-free, at the moment. But that's absolutely not enough. Why? Because the pandemic will leave and have already left in health protection the landscape of destruction, or ruins. Of course, the sick suffered the most, and those who went through COVID died 73 thousand Poles, but also those who suffered from other diseases. And health care was the most affected, on each line of course also small entrepreneurs and education. You could make more money, much bigger than the 18%. , health care rich, milk and honey flowing. Firstly, to build missing hospitals in child psychiatry, in rare diseases, rest homes for terminally ill, children and adults, and many more, that is to say, investment. Secondly, you could make up for staff shortages by offering those who are currently working decent stakes so that they do not think about going to any other country, just to work in Poland. But it's not. The initial proposal of a specialist such as me, and I work in the profession 46 years old, 19 zł raise is just funny. The General Medical Council requested an analysis which showed that 15% workers intend to leave the labour market, including 9% intends to leave for emigration, and 6% He's gonna quit his job. And if the increase is 19 zlotys, or even 36 zlotys, then in my opinion these interest rates will increase even more. So what we have already heard at the Health Committee meeting, namely the improvement of education and the increase in the number of students, is not enough. They're not gonna stay, they're just gonna leave if health care continues to be paid. As I'm sure you know, 400 health workers died, 150 of them. And this 19 PLN for a specialist is 0.29% His salary. Is that supposed to be a raise? That's how he wants to stop the staff? In general, in Europe there will be a shortage of this report prepared by Deloitte's advisory firm, 4.1 million specialists. Do you really think the specialists are gonna stay here for this or go to different countries? In the absence of such a large number of doctors there, many of them will leave. The same analysis also calculated the average age of doctors at 52 years. What do you have to do with much, much more money? First of all, rebuild health protection in its entirety, namely the first line, i.e. POZ. I am an old doctor and I know that at the moment the tsunami is hitting and an even bigger tsunami will hit both the POZ and the AOS, due to delayed diagnosis in all diseases. So, Minister, the future resilience to another such disaster is not only about strengthening infectious hospitalization, but also about not allowing such a large number of patients to die from other diseases. The sick must be the most important, it is as if the beneficiary... or not the beneficiary, but ends tragically if health care functions as in Poland. This is where your hands fall down. And people are praying right now for what was before the pandemic to come back, and it was hopeless even then. So now this ruined health care is going to be struggling with a tsunami that's already hit our hospitals, the AOSs, and the hospital. So all of this requires enormous resources. There is 2.5 million and even more, because 2 million 600 thousand people who suffer from various problems, so money is needed for physical and mental rehabilitation, because they often have severe complications. You'll also need a 38 million-dollar nation to vaccinate against COVID once a year, because it looks like these vaccines won't hold any more... This is also what we need resources for, and I am not saying that it must be these measures, but it may be these. We need to strengthen those areas that look dramatic, like psychiatry or the treatment of rare diseases. It has to be done as soon as possible. And first of all, what was not fully done before the pandemic itself has to be introduced European and global standards in all hospitals and in all areas. The hospital is to be friendly to the sick, safe, comfortable, with a staff of psychologists who care about his mental health, with excellent local conditions, modernly equipped. And most importantly, treatment should be done using the latest diagnostic and therapeutic methods, with access to funding for new therapies. I will talk about this today in a statement on how the lives of children with acute CAR-T cells are saved in Poland, collecting 1 million 300 000 per child. Finally, there is the question of improving the quality of medical training. This, Minister, is not just about what we hear, that this is supposed to be an increase in the number of seats. After all, it is also about training specialists, because a student after college is not able to take such really good care. One more thing. Big money is needed for catching up in areas such as oncology, cardiology, endocrinology. Therefore, the NFZ should be given more money, but in my opinion it should be the means derived from not raising the health rate, but this is the only thing that should be earmarked for this purpose. Because this additional tax titled "a significant increase in health contributions" will hit many people and bring them into a bad situation. That's more or less what I wanted to say. I wanted to say more, but I think I've run out of time on recommendations on climate issues. I think maybe somebody else is gonna bring it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u231	Thank you very much, Senator. I will now ask the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. Senator Gawłowski... [[I think he's upstairs.]] Then please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u232	Thank you very much. I will take the floor because I said a lot in the previous debate. Now I would like to draw attention to the three most important elements of this opinion. Firstly, everyone can wonder why we are so determined to introduce conditional elements or why we are forming opinions as senators towards the government. The source is simple, it is a lack of trust, but also observations on the ways in which financial resources are spent so far. I must say that, on the one hand, I am a little jealous of the government that for such a long time it has benefited from the economic situation of the world, but on the other hand, I do not envy what is the result of the pandemic. This is a difficult time. But looking at the procedures for adopting this extraordinary budget, the budget for reconstruction after the pandemic, as well as the changes in the budget within the next European perspective, I would like to draw attention to one important premise, the password, the goal that was built by European politicians, including politicians from Poland. It's an eco-transformation. It is to build programmes so that the economy on the one hand is stronger and on the other hand more environmentally friendly. This is the transition from carbon to hydrogen, this is the transition to often remote education, but education, which is based on the ability to work together with children at the school stage. This is both building very strong scientific centres and creating such changes in the way the economy works, so that it is based on new technologies and digitalisation. I believe that, on the one hand, this document, which the government has sent to Brussels, is a kind of self-criticism. The goals shown there show how many mistakes the Law and Justice government has made in the last six years, how much they have neglected. I am not saying right away that there is no doubt that he has done nothing, but it is very important to pay attention to the segments that appear in this program. The first segment, once again, is all economic and environmental issues. Unfortunately, in the last six years, we have de facto stopped the development of this activity, which is associated with renewable energy. The de facto wind power plants were blocked, also due to announcements concerning new farms, those which were to be located at sea. In general, we are dealing with a situation where we have gone backwards when it comes to using new energy sources. These were dramatic situations. I'm already skipping this chimney set up as part of a project, connected with the energy project and then demolished, and I'm also skipping other elements that are untapped investments, but please pay attention to how much coal we've brought in recently from Donbass. At the same time we are sending a document which is very important from the point of view of changes in the way the economy works in Poland, as well as climate protection. The second thing is research. Well, I'd rather not talk about these scientific studies too much. I am a great supporter of spending large funds, strengthening the Polish Academy of Sciences, and meanwhile we have announcements of de facto liquidation. Even Professor Majcherek at one of the universities was disturbing, although he was dealing with issues in the field of humanities. I believe that the scientific community requires autonomy, the strengthening of funding for research, respect for institutions that have a long tradition. I do not say that they do not require reform, but first of all we need to bring about such a situation in order to use the authority of scientists, professors, outstanding experts. Education. I've already noticed a few times that I consider the elimination of junior high as an absolute mistake. We've lost many years. When junior high was eliminated, they were in the top five universities of this type in Europe. But what hurts me the most is that we are currently not focusing on cooperation in this education, for the future, to move smoothly in the area of new technologies. The pandemic slightly triggered the need to use the Internet as well, but unfortunately a significant number of institutions, parents were completely unprepared for this. We have led to a certain educational division of children from different families, who have been prepared to acquire knowledge also in a remote system. Another issue is resilience to crises. This resilience to crises is all about taking care of this area, which is related to medicine that is widely understood. They're not just hospitals, they're modern research centers that are associated with virus research, various pandemics. Unfortunately, two years ago, even this military institution was destroyed, I would say. We've wasted a lot of time. With regard to the National Plan for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity, this is the full name, it is designed so that it can be said about both a lot of good and a lot of bad. I don't want to go any further, but I want to say that these 24 billion grants and over 30 billion loans, especially in this second segment, that is a big responsibility. When we make a document that raises doubts, formal doubts, I understand that. I understand that maybe we're trying too hard, we're trying to get ahead of time, we want to talk about draft laws that aren't there yet, or draft implementing acts that are just coming up, but it's to make this money 100%. Don't waste it. I am saying, and I would like to stress very strongly, that Poland will not have a second chance, a second chance to benefit from the help of the European institutions so much. If we don't use it And I'm talking about us, Poland, not the opposition or the government. No one will forgive us, especially the youngest generation. And finally, a few details. Please note that in some segments we are trying to be extremely ambitious. As far as the employment rate is concerned, in the range of 15 and 65 years, if I remember correctly, the coefficients proposed by the government are de facto Scandinavian, extremely difficult to achieve. But I'm gonna keep my fingers crossed for this to happen. Please note that today, during the debate, we saw such satisfaction in a certain part of the room from the fact that we have reduced the retirement age and, in this document sent by the government, we are trying to make sure that these pensions are not, in short, taken away in order to lead to the situation that, in these indicators, the state will not be devastated from the point of view of social security. The left was pleased for a moment with seventy-seven thousand apartments, forgetting that experts believe that this market is now shallow, on a level, as I recall, 2,5 2.3 million apartments for rent to young people. The Poles, as we know from the transfers in the last 2 weeks, have gone for loans, for mortgages to buy apartments for own property, but for loans, not for their money. At the same time, the state is doing the same thing, which leads to the situation that we need to benefit from. 'Cause we're gonna have to use it. From European aid funds. Please also pay attention to the policy of the National Bank of Poland. The interest rates have been very much lowered, which actually reduces the size of the middle class. Those who've been saving up so far are losing. We have a situation where the Senator's finance minister answers my statements about billions of printed money, and he's not talking about the exchange of used banknotes, he's talking about the extra printing of money, which causes record inflation in Europe. We've been in this room many times. It's a delicate word. Over the extraordinary mortality among Poles during the pandemic. All of these elements make up that all of them together. I would like to stress: all of us together. We should be responsible for the nearest perspective of 6 years, for how these funds will be used, with which responsibility we will have to deal with, how local governments will be treated, as outside the party, beyond the policy, will be invested, in a way that Poland is stronger, more efficient, and the whole of this great conglomerate is more resistant, as the whole of Europe wishes, and in Europe we are. And finally, one general remark. I am not a follower of either teaching or then such satisfaction: and we did not say... If we have prepared some proposals here in the Senate, I would stress once again: because of concern, because of the belief that the experience so far shows that we are dealing with very often wasted, published in a transparent way, very often unfair, very often after being considered. Most large purchases are made without invitations to tender, and staffing positions, even in these most important companies No competitions. And we would like, in this perspective, which has such European support, to have these phenomena if not blown up, at least limited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u233	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u234	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of a discussion which raises questions, doubts as to whether the Senate can adopt a resolution in the form of an opinion on the principles of the use of the Instrument for Reconstruction and Enhancing Immunity set up by the European Union. And here I would like to reassure everyone that, of course, he can. Art. 85 Rules of Procedure of the Senate provide that resolutions, statements, appeals and opinions may be adopted in the procedure provided for by the Senate resolutions. I am talking about the fact that there is no doubt that we are acting within the limits of the law, the authority, or even a certain obligation that we have as a second Chamber. Because what's in the opinion we're dealing with today? Is there anything controversial about this opinion? Is it controversial to say that the European Union is based on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law as well as respect for human rights. For me, it would be extremely worrying if we did not share as citizens and if the government did not share this system of values, which is indeed common to all the Member States of the European Union. Or maybe it's controversial what's written down in the resolution, and as it turns out, local governments should have 40% at their disposal. appropriations allocated to elements related to the National Reconstruction Plan? Does the citizen live in a municipality or in a city or in government buildings? No, we all live in this little country of ours and want to have a guarantee that money from the European Union will be dedicated to this little country. And in order not to be as it was in the case of the local initiatives fund, where in the Łódź voivodeship, which both I and Minister Buda know perfectly well, in the second tranche of the fund from these funds for local initiatives 760-thousand Łódź did not receive either a zloty, and the municipality of Dąbrowice, which has 1 thousand 900 inhabitants, received an amount of PLN 2.5 million for 3 projects. Is that what we're worried about? Yeah, that's what we're worried about, because not everyone's lucky enough to be a resident of the Dąbrowice community, where your uncle is connected to the PiS. We want to know that money will reach every citizen, regardless of whether a given local governmentman, e.g. He has a brother who represents the PiS on the county board, or he's completely non-partisan. Or are you concerned about what is stated in the second paragraph that expenditure on health care should be a priority in the implementation of the National Reconstruction Plan? In this and last week there were declarations of doctors and nurses that they are beginning to prepare for the protest action, because what you are proposing as part of the remuneration for health professionals is not satisfactory for the representatives of these professions. Remember, we're just getting out of a pandemic. We all recently had mouthfuls of how important doctors and nurses are. It is worthwhile that words have their weight, and that weight has decisions, not words. Or is it worrying that the Senate calls on the Council of Ministers to comply with the implementation of decisions and safeguards of the Court of Justice? Of course, they can be ignored and led to a situation like that in Turów, because it was the lack of talks with the country we are neighbouring with that has led us to wonder what to do with the decision of the tribunal that the power plant and the mine in Turow should be shut down. It's the fault of certain people who haven't talked to our neighbor. And we, talking about the need to respect Community legislation, are saying this so that the Pole is wise before harm, not after damage, and best not at all that damage. Because the lack of enforcement, compliance with the rules relating precisely to the implementation of decisions of the Community European Courts will lead to the possibility that funds may also be granted by means of which the transfer will be suspended. Or is it the monitoring committee that's bothering the government? Yes, the Monitoring Committee is to be set up not on the basis that the Minister of Government will indicate its representatives, but on a partnership basis there will be representatives and government, and self-government. Poland is all Both government and self-government, and not just those who execute authorities at the level of government administration at the moment. Or is it so worrying to note that the powers of the Monitoring Committee are to be supplemented by real tools related to the assessment and approval of the procedures for selecting projects within the framework of the KPO, defining the rules and approving the criteria for selecting projects or making recommendations to those responsible for KPOs? Nobody wants to create dead laws, blank authorizations that are as valuable as a piece of paper on which they are written. Yes, we expect real tools because we are making one of the most important decisions on how European funds will be spent in the coming years, which are about Poland's development. Or is it worrying to note paragraph 8 of this draft resolution, to which I am proposing an amendment at this very moment, and according to which it is necessary to carry out regular checks by the Supreme Audit Chamber in order to ensure the proper implementation of the National Reconstruction Programme? We have every right to be proud. Not from one of the other CEOs of NIK whom they choose once, once. Now it's the one you've chosen. Okay, I'll remind you. But we are proud of the Supreme Board of Control, which is one of the best control institutions in the world. And thus carries out audits and audits of the OECD or the Council of Europe's finances. If we have such a unique entity with respect and recognition around the world, and controllers who are excellent professionals in terms of the regularity of public spending, the government should propose that they be audited by the NIK on a regular basis, on a regular basis, on the correctness of the implementation of the NPOs and on the spending of the money that we will receive under European funds. What's more, I was convinced today that after you said so many times not to supplement the ratification bill, because maybe this... I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, The Senate should take advantage of the legislative initiative in the form of an appropriate resolution, in this case a resolution which will formally be the opinion of the Senate; that this resolution will be adopted by all the clubs and circles that are in the Senate, just to show that European funds are our common cause, beyond political divisions. And I would like to appeal to the Senate's opinion on how correctly, honestly, honestly, crediblely, transparently, in a clear way, and building trust between the citizens and the rulers... to adopt this resolution with the votes of the entire Senate. Because each of those things that are written in the draft of this resolution, as the classic would say, is obvious. And it is not obvious if anyone would like to question any of the elements contained in this draft resolution as elements on which the principles of spending money should be based both on the Instrument for Reconstruction and Enhancing Immunity and in the future from a new budgetary perspective of the European Union. Let this vote strengthen us all, build the authority of Parliament and the government, because it will show that transparent rules are the system of values that is close to everyone in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u235	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the outset, maybe a few general comments. First one like that... Because here it was tried to suggest that we were forbidding the Senate to adopt a resolution, and yet the Senate has such an initiative. It's the rules and regulations, and so on. Of course it does. The Senate can take any resolution. This is not a legally binding text. Whether he calls it an opinion, a resolution, a resolution, a position, it is already of secondary importance. He can write anything in it. Really. The only question is whether it always makes sense. Not if it's an acceptable law, but if it makes sense. Because if the Senate decides that the Earth is flat, everyone will laugh at it. But, ladies and gentlemen, if the Senate makes a resolution that the Earth is almost round, it'll be ridiculous, too, because that's what the Senate shouldn't do. What else is the Senate resolution? It's a different tool. It's not just writing out what he's gonna bring to anyone's tongue. And now like this: first of all, we dated once, it was an informal agreement, let's call it the Senate custom. That the resolution should be placed on 2 pages of the text, and this one has 4. Yeah, she's chatty. Ladies and gentlemen, she's very chatty. If someone is unable on 2 pages to express their thoughts, then and 4, 6, 8 or 10 pages will not help this someone. Next question: what is the ratio of the draft resolution to what was in the previous paragraph? Well, lucky we didn't approve this recital. Congratulations here, too. For if this preamble had unfortunately gone to the Sejm, and yet, God forbid, had it been accepted, or not been rejected by the Sejm, everyone would have found a connection between the preamble and the text of this resolution. Well, then we'd be delicious. Now of course not, the resolution is an independent act. The fact that in close proximity to the time adopted is no longer of major importance from a substantive point of view. There is a lot in this draft resolution, and I will mention only a few minor errors that make it such a text, I would call it, underdeveloped, that is the best term. No one's read it except the authors. Well, that's the best word for it. Why? I don't know. Legislators found dozens of wrong records during the committee's work. Their proposals have been accepted as a self-correction, and this should be commended. But the red light should be lit by now, that since there have been so many legislative errors, there may be many other mistakes, so to speak, semi-essential ones. There you go, we'll exchange that one at a time. I don't know how long it's gonna take. Front page, exchange expectations. 1st Waiting: The local authorities should have 40% at their disposal appropriations allocated, etc. I'm not arguing, or 30%, or 40%. or 50% But if you leave it that way, it'll be a little counterproductive. And if someone wants to give them, for example. 50% ? Maybe it should be 40% minimum. Measures. And then it would be about what you want to achieve. Second point of the same expectations, at the very end of the page: which largely belongs to cities, powiats and regional communities. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is the case, then there must be similar categories. What else is the city, what else is the county, and what else is the regional community. If any, it is the municipalities, powiats and voivodships or self-government voivodships. These are other categories, as you combine them in the content of this draft resolution, well, it's just so unethical. Next, third point of expectation, page 2, at the top of the page: Under this principle, the government, local government, private and social sectors must be treated equally. That's a very good rule. It's just that the question is whether the sector... Is that the definition of the sector? Are these really sectors? I've heard of the public and private sectors. Or another division, the economic division of agriculture, industry, services. This is sectoral division. Let's keep going. This is the most specific, curious... The fifth point of expectation. I'm going to quote it relatively slowly so you can understand what's going on here. The Monitoring Committee should be composed in equal parts of representative representatives of ministries, local governments, employers, NGOs, trade unions. And now note, further decimals, strings, circles: two university representatives, two representatives of the Sejm and the Senate. So we have a division that's equal to the parts, and then two at a time. Well, if this is all going to be equal parts, then the first ones are going to be equal to two. It doesn't make any sense. I don't know what the poet meant in that sentence. Equal parts for certain categories, and two for other categories, for other entities? We're moving on. Oh, that's also very interesting, beyond these expectations, the second paragraph on the third page: "This day is about today." The Polish local and regional communities are celebrating regaining their autonomy. Well, maybe that sounds nice, I'd say poetic, publicistic, but it's kind of, well, a legal act, let's call it that. It shouldn't be easy for him to go to poetry here. Because autonomy is something other than self-government. Since when do local governments have autonomy in our country? These are two different categories. There it is, it's on, it's on... Ladies and gentlemen, these are minor mistakes. I'm not going to continue to beat you with these mistakes, because they're going to pale in comparison to the fundamental problem that the Minister has already announced here, well, they're actually pale. Maybe we can divide this problem into factions. Problem number one. What's the resolution about? That's what the title should say. We read: The draft opinion on the principles for the use of the European Union's Instrument for Reconstruction and Increased Resistance. That's the truth. Indeed, this is a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 February 2021 establishing an Instrument for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity. It's a beautiful match. But this regulation doesn't just establish it... We read: Article 1, Subject: This Regulation establishes an Instrument for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity (hereinafter referred to as "the Instrument"). But in this paragraph, there is a second sentence: 'It defines 'this regulation'. The objectives of the Instrument, its financing, the forms of Union financing within it and the rules for granting such financing. The very definition of the instrument and the subsequent provision of this regulation are the most important things concerning the construction, structure and work with this instrument, the granting of funding rules. And now the question is: how is this text to conclude that it is a European institution and we want to impose rules here, perhaps right, certainly right, but the European institution? They'll accept the rules. Or not? Someone will say: well, no, because we mean how it should be, let's call it, implemented this instrument, but in Poland. Then where does it say we're talking about Poland? Well, I'd like to find out, ladies and gentlemen, because this is where the instrument is being discussed all the time. The 27 countries have the same roofing instrument set up by the European Union, by the Commission. The simple question is, why do you want to rule the whole instrument, not the part that we deserve? The next question: are all the rules, rules, demands that you introduce here in line with what is in this regulation? Where's that marking line that separates one from the other? [[Mr. Senator, 11 minutes... you speak very interestingly, but 11 minutes...]] Thanks for the credit. I would like to commend you, Mr. Marshal, for noticing certain inconsistencies at the committee meeting, really. [[But what I'm trying to say is that the concept of "instrument" is also ambiguous.]] Good. If you don't mind, Mr. Marshall, one sentence, really last sentence. [[You're welcome.]] What you're assuming is the greatest advantage of this document, the draft of this resolution, in my opinion, is its biggest downside. This is point 4 on page 2: a call for compliance with and implementation of decisions and safeguards of the TSUE. According to you, this is a positive plus, and I believe that this is unfortunately a positive plus, because these rulings are not always in line with the Polish state's right. Besides, we've been watching this lately. That's one thing. Secondly, we should not weaken the negotiating position of the Polish government through such provisions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u237	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u238	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! It may be appropriate to refer to all these allegations concerning the content of the draft resolution that have just been calculated here, but I agree with the previous speaker that these are minor errors, and most of them are not errors at all. I'm gonna stop for a quote and, by the way, I'm gonna satisfy the senator. Namely, I submit an amendment to the fifth paragraph on page 1 of the draft, where there is a specific proposal for the composition of the Monitoring Committee. It is repeated here that the Monitoring Committee should be composed in equal parts, but of three representative representatives... And here are mentioned government, local government and socio-economic organizations. The rest is done and there's no question of interpretation anymore. Thank you very much... I'm making an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u239	Thank you, Senator. Then I'll pass on the amendment, you're welcome. Oh, Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First, in the mode of clarification after what Minister Buda said at the outset, who was pleased that the preamble had not obtained the majority. Well, I understand his joy, but he put it in such a comment that here are two senators mostly out of discipline. So in public space it is not that there has been some kind of breach of discipline, I inform you that they simply had difficulties, problems with the Internet, which one of them expressed, because he called here, only that already after the time and the Marshal of Resumption did not order. Well, it's the rules that don't allow it, and we follow the rules. [[Voice from the Chamber: Unlike the Seym.]] It happens, of course, okay? There is still the matter of this opinion, of this resolution. As for the comments made here by Senator Czerwiński, I regret that he did not report them at the committee meeting or formally did not report them, because some of them would be welcome. Although I think some of them have that kind of character, I'd say... I'm looking for the right word... [[Voice from the room: Cepialski.]] Oh, yeah, he's so picky. Because to whom is this resolution addressed, this opinion is addressed? It's not for Brussels, for God's sake, we know it's for our government. The same is true, for example. with the fact that local governments should have 40% And the senator says, "Maybe somebody wants to give them 50%." ? All right, that'll give them 50%. It's not like we're gonna worry about that. For now, they're 30%, so if they give 40%, it'll be progress. But I don't want to refer to each of these comments. I think without them, without those remarks. And one Senator Frankiewicz took it into account. This resolution defends itself. It's about something more fundamental. Namely, if there are indeed any provisions which are contrary to the directives, to EU legislation I don't really see it, I'll be honest with you, but let's assume that it's an opinion, and if the government wants to approach it, I would say, friendlyly, it will explain that one point or another cannot apply, or it needs to remodel it in order to comply with European law. And in general, Senator Kwiatkowski was talking about it here, quoting the individual points: why? Why should this be contrary to European law? Why should there be 40% against European law for local authorities, a follow-up committee which is to be composed of so many people representing such organisations rather than other organisations? This is our view, our opinion, and we have the right. I'll take it. This has nothing to do with any European law. It has been said many times here that the origins of all this discussion, debate, dispute or sometimes even the fights about the Fund for Reconstruction, the ratification of the Fund for Reconstruction, were the practice which was applied by the government, namely that the funds from the local investment fund were distributed unfairly. Now let's go. I'm talking about senators, MPs, PiS politicians. Every time they cite examples from the first tranche, from different places, from different voivodships, and they say: please, here are all the municipalities received, etc. But you're not talking about the second tranche and the third tranche. And meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, just about the second and third tranche in today's Rzeczpospolita, you are talking about Deputy Prime Minister Gowin And I advise my colleagues in Law and Justice to read it. Well, Mr Gowin says there that the first tranche was distributed according to an algorithm developed by him, by the Agreement, and that it was fair, objective, while the second and third tranches gave up this algorithm. That's what Deputy Prime Minister Gowin says. Well, ladies and gentlemen... Unless you accuse him of lying. But I don't think so. So please accept that once you do something like this, once you do something like this, you completely lose your trust. And in such a situation you have to propose some resolutions, opinions, recitals, etc., etc., in order to make it sound to the public that something was wrong and that it is outlined here in the right direction. Now, whether or not you can change something about this plan. After all, it is already sent to Brussels. After all, it is clear that he is currently being discussed, because the European Commission has reservations about this plan, so that changes can still be made. But I want to draw attention to a kind of change that absolutely doesn't cause any problems. Namely we have the grant part and the loan part. Well, part of the loan means for sure only that the government decides to take it, to borrow it, but already how it will pass it on to the right entities will depend on government policy. It can be provided in the form of a loan to one company or another, to a company, to a hospital, to a municipality, etc., but it can also be provided in the form of a grant, and repayment will take place from subsequent budgets, from 2028 to 30 years, and this will be relatively modest amounts. Therefore, this loan amount, which is not small, is more than the grant amount, can now be modelled accordingly. It is possible, for example, to do so. increase the financing of health services in such a way that from the loan part no loans are granted to hospitals, e.g. for repayment of debt or investment But it's just a grant. In this way, the amount for hospitals can be increased. In the same way, the amount for local governments can be increased. Thus, there are full possibilities and this resolution is not empty here. Well, it's hard for her to explain these issues in detail, because she's finally calculated that it's being read by people who understand how these mechanisms work. I can only say here, from this bleacher, that this operation is entirely possible. To conclude, High Senate, once again I stress: if anything in the draft of this resolution cannot be reconciled with European regulations, then the government will explain it, the government will not apply it, it will do otherwise. The vast majority can be reconciled here, and there is no problem with that. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u241	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u242	Thank you very much. I'm short, so I'm short. I would like to say that there have been many important words and speeches here today, such as the one that just came out, Marek Borowski's statement... I think we're gonna reach for them in a couple of years, and we're gonna be wondering, we're gonna be checking things out, and that's definitely gonna happen. That is why I would like this to be part of the protocol, because I regret to say that, as I see it, there are no government representatives here. That's why I took the floor to get it on the record that the government didn't listen to it. We'll evaluate it in a few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u243	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted... [[Senator's voice:]] Sorry, I didn't notice. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly, certainly not five minutes. The most important things have already been said. I would just like to add that you here, apart from, I would call it those simple errors which I have pointed out, this basic error, that is contradictions... as if entering into the competences of the EU bodies, conflicting with the relevant Union regulation, are doing another thing that I think is also unacceptable, which is perhaps more concealed, that is, you are confusing our National Reconstruction Plan with possible implementation laws. It may not be as much revenge as it may have its repercussions later, in the future, because these are different classes, different kinds of documents. I asked the Minister here, and he agreed to this... I repeat this request, Mr. Marshal, to read it at the very end of the discussion. The point is that the Minister should draw up a written opinion on this, well, resolution, nomen omen, and an opinion in which he will point out the contradictions between the content of this resolution and the regulation, so that we do not repeat this in the course of subsequent work on the implementation law or laws, because it may be a few documents, it does not have to be a single document. The point is simply not to repeat the mistakes I believe are here, and Minister 3 of these errors have been mentioned. And since, unfortunately, I have not heard here from your consent to this process, I am requesting that this project be rejected in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u245	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask Senator Bosacki to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u246	Mr Marshal, I would like to ask you to set a deadline for the committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft opinion at this Senate meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u247	Thank you. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is sending the draft opinion to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. Senator Marcin Bosacki has requested that the committees draw up an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft opinion at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. There are no voices of objection. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution condemning the actions of the Belarusian authorities against the fundamental principles of international law. The draft resolution under consideration was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 412. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs and the senate circles, was included on the agenda without first reading. I would ask the authorized representative of the applicants, Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski, to present a draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a draft resolution condemning the actions of the Belarusian authorities against the fundamental principles of international law, which is an expression of a broad agreement between all the clubs and senate circles operating in the High House. The main reason for this resolution is the response to extraordinary events in Belarus. We all know that this country has been experiencing an eruption of freedom for more than a year, which has met with the very drastic actions of the Lukashenka regime. But what has happened in recent days and in recent weeks is extraordinary. It is about forcing Ryanair's plane to land in order to imprison independent journalist Roman Protasiewicz, which has generally been classified as an act of state terrorism and unprecedented barbarism. At the same time, repression against the citizens of Belarus is developing on a large scale. These repressions also affected to a great extent representatives of Polish minorities who were imprisoned to intimidate the entire community. The Senate, in accordance with the Polish national tradition, which has a special sensitivity with regard to the freedom of individuals and the freedom of nations, should speak on this issue. These were the motives of all clubs and senate circles. I have been entrusted with the privilege of representing the applicants. Mr. Marshal and ladies and gentlemen of the senators will allow me to read the text of the resolution. The Senate of the Republic of Poland condemns the drastic actions of the Belarusian authorities violating the fundamental principles of international law and the civilized world. The forced landing of the Ryanair airline on 23 May 2021 in Minsk, in order to imprison independent journalist Roman Protasiewicz, was an act of state terrorism and unprecedented barbarism. According to the Polish tradition of freedom, the Senate of the Republic of Poland has often acted in defence of the fundamental rights of citizens of Belarus. The Senate of the Republic of Poland considers the decisions of the European Council to extend sanctions against the Lukashenka regime to be a joint and appropriate response, which should be the first step towards building a strategy of effective opposition to the repression policy. Another should be the rapid and broad application of personal sanctions to the representatives of the regime involved in repression against the citizens of Belarus. The Senate of the Republic of Poland calls on the European institutions and parliaments of democratic states to take joint action to free all political prisoners. Among them are activists of the Polish minority in Belarus: Andżelika Borys, Irena Biernacka, Maria Tiszkowska, Anna Paniszewa and Andrzej Poczobut, who were deprived of liberty to intimidate the entire community. The Senate of the Republic of Poland calls on all institutions responsible for the protection and promotion of human rights to act jointly and severally to stop repression by the Belarusian authorities and to restore the fundamental rights and freedoms of Belarusian citizens and the rights of minorities living in the country. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I would like to ask the High House to accept the draft resolution and to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u249	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u250	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! In fact, we are observers of what is happening in Belarus, and things are shameful, terrible, and this must also cause our reaction. Well, for six months it lasted, every week in fact, huge demonstrations and 35,000 people were detained, demonstrators. They were beaten, some were eaten. Five people died during the demonstration. Well, what the Belarusian special forces, called OMON, have done with these people, can be seen as aggression against their own people. That is, the Belarusian service, the Belarusian OMON carried out aggression and self-righteousness. Not only did 5 people die, but many people were mutilated, they went to hospitals. This is what we've been watching, partially watching, because all we've been looking at is what we've been seeing through the Internet. More than 400 of these 35,000 were arrested, that is, in prison with sanctions, or have already been sentenced to some very high sentences. For hitting a police officer, for pushing a police officer, it's seven to eight years. Those are the sentences. These are the sentences to intimidate the Belarusians. But at the head of this apparatus of repression is a man who thinks he is president, although he was not elected or elected in a fraudulent election, not recognized by everyone in Europe, except for one Euro-Asian power. This dictator also addresses us and says that Poland will get its ass kicked. So I'm just saying, shit? That kind of concept. 'Cause it's hard to say the dictator has a face. It is addressed to people like this dictator destroying, suppressing, smothering his people. This aggression, also in relation to neighbouring countries, Poland and Lithuania... It's that kind of level. This is an attempt to get us into some sort of conflict with Russia. After all, it is his claim that NATO is preparing troops or moving troops to the border with Belarus because it wants to attack, that is, of course, an attempt to drag Russia into this conflict, because Russia, and in fact Putin, is the only ally of it. This is a very dangerous situation and this is a very dangerous man. Because he's willing to bring this part of Europe into conflict to save his head and his position. What he said about gathering troops was a lie for a reason. Behind this dictator is the shadow of a man who supports him. Of course, he could not have taken such action if he had not had the support of the Russian President, Mr Putin. And I would like to say that for what is happening in Belarus, what he is doing there, responsibility falls also on the Russian authorities. It's clear, and that's what we should be aware of. Kidnapping or forced to land, basically kidnapping a plane on May 23 to get Raman Pratasiewicz, is another act that crosses the limits adopted in a civilized world. That plane was under the Polish flag. The company is not Polish, but the aircraft was registered in Poland, it was under the Polish flag, as the ship registered in Poland sails under the Polish flag. And it's obvious it's affecting us too, not just as a neighbor. If we know that such things happen in a neighbor's place, if we hear such words, full of brutal aggression towards us, then we must realize that the situation is terrible, bad, and may yet develop into a direction in which neither we nor Europe would like to go. In this connection, I believe that the government should also take other further steps in addition to these decisions relating to the call for the Belarusian chargé d'affaires in Warsaw. He should consult on the kidnapping of an aircraft and the situation in Belarus not only with the European Union, not only within the European Union. Well, art. 4 says that such consultations can also be carried out within NATO. The plane was Polish, took off from the territory of one NATO country, flew to the capital of another NATO country, so here are the possibilities of consultation under the art. 4, consulting with NATO allies. And the Polish government should do it. The Polish Government should also consider whether it is possible to reach out to the final possibilities in terms of a peaceful response. I mean blocking freight transport with Belarus. We should certainly try to block sales of petroleum products that pass through Poland, because from this Lukashenka maintains its budget. As much as 20% of the budget of Belarus is trade in petroleum products. Such actions should be considered not only within the European Union, but also in agreement with our NATO allies, because the abduction of the aircraft entitles you to consult the article. 4. And in the end, what can we do? Of course, we can appeal to the government for this type of action, at least to consider this type of action in order to prepare ourselves for such a situation that this dictator will go further. We, the senators, have already made such a proposal, I fully support it. We should... Each of us should take private custody of one of the arrested, in prison in Belarus. Each of us wonders what we can do. Well, apart from the appeals, that's what we can do. I think this gesture would be important for moral reasons, but it would also bring some positive... [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] Now. ... Positive, I think, for those who sit. If these people found out that they were under the individual care of Polish senators... I'm appealing for this action. Let each of us take care of one prisoner of conscience dictator Lukashenka in Belarus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u251	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u252	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I spoke to Raman Pratasiewicz's parents for the second time today. These aren't easy conversations because these people are suffering with their children. They fear for their son, who is in danger of death in Belarus. Let us remind you that Belarus is the only country that once belonged to the Council of Europe and has not decided to abolish the death penalty. Belarus is no longer a member of the Council of Europe, among others. because of this decision. Raman Pratasiewicz's parents are also afraid for his daughter, who is still in Minsk. What I could do, what I thought It should do all of us to convince our authorities to act faster and more efficiently so that any opponent who may be the target of attack by this criminal regime... can provide protection to any opponent who is in Poland. If Raman Pratasiewicz had received political asylum in Poland in the past, perhaps this terrible event would not have occurred. But he didn't. I believe that the authorities of our country should protect those activists who may be the target of attack by the Lukashenka bandit regime. When I was driving from Vilnius airport on Sunday to Seimasu, I heard the Lithuanian President speaking this afternoon with ready proposals for the European institutions. I was surprised that our president didn't react until a few hours later. I think our authorities are responding properly, but they are reacting too late and too careful. And this is not about some competition with smaller Lithuania, it is about the fact that the authorities of this smaller country, which is Lithuania, can react faster and more efficiently, but also in Vilnius, and in Warsaw there are Belarusians, representatives of the Coordination Council, who have established the people's embassies representing the one who won the elections in Belarus. This is a good partner for our authorities, with whom we should keep in constant contact. The response of our authorities I'm gonna say it again. It should be faster and more efficient. For the first time, the European Union: for the first time since the outbreak of the great wave of civil protests in Belarus has done what it should have done. It is worth noting that 2 processes are open by the European Council, but not yet closed. At the moment, there is an indication of those persons who should be subject to individual sanctions and those economic and financial entities from Belarus who should be subject to institutional sanctions. I'm looking It's in the draft of our resolution. That individual sanctions should be covered not only by those who give bloody orders, but also those who execute them, that individual sanctions should be covered by the whole hand, not only by the arm, but also by the hands and fingers. The Belarusian opposition has identified several hundred people who are responsible for the execution of criminal orders. We knew since the end of the 1990s that Alexander Lukashenka had issued a disposition about the murder of several of his opponents in an exemplary way to intimidate the entire society. No one has ever been responsible in this case despite the efforts of widows, among others. Irina Krasovska, about the interest of international public opinion in these crimes. I believe that in order not to repeat this situation, the European Union should once again mark this Put on the list those who are sanctioned who are identified by the Belarusian opposition by name and surname as responsible for the execution of orders coming from above. They should answer not only those who give orders, but also those who follow them. It is good that in our resolution this record, this expectation is found. As for the North Atlantic Alliance, the Alliance will have its nearest summit in June, so soon. The threat of Belarus should become one of the main themes of the North Atlantic Alliance summit, because Alexander Lukashenka poses a threat to the security of not only its citizens, but also of neighbouring countries, including Poland. This security threat is becoming more and more real, increasingly visible, because Lukashenka is becoming more and more unpunished. The wave of terror, which is now passing through Belarus, is increasingly visible and the fact that many people in this wave of terror have already died, and even more people have suffered health damage, that people are being tortured, that people are being oppressed, that the daughter of the Protasiewicz state in Poland may be the next innocent victim of these persecutions, I should repeat it once again. Make us all do our best to help Belarusians and Belarusians here, in Poland, and there in Belarus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u253	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u254	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank Senator Ujazdowski for the effort to prepare this resolution and to emphasize very strongly only one thing that must sound out of the Polish Senate. Our resolution, but also the decisions of the European Union on the actual closure of Belarus, i.e. Air connections, and we remember that Minsk itself closed the land border with all its neighbours except Russia in December, is not aimed at ordinary Belarusians, but at a dictator named Alexander Lukashenka. We know that, of course, in the short term, this decision may also make life difficult for the citizens of Belarus. But even more difficult for them is the life of a blood dictator who rules in Belarus. In transit, we must remember that. Around 300,000 aircraft moving over Belarus each year made at least $70 million. The bankruptcy of the State carrier Belavia, which in recent years has aired dozens of planes, is also a severe blow to the dictatorship. We must remember that Lukashenka sentenced her opponents to years of imprisonment, but we must also remember that Belarus is the only country in Europe where the death penalty is executed by a gunshot to the back of the head. Since 1991, more than 300 death sentences have been executed. And it is a drama in this situation that such punishment can be imposed today also against opposition activists, including Raman Pratasiewicz. Therefore, there should be a strong, clear and clear signal on our part that no one in the European countries accepts this to resort to such methods. Let us hope that soon we will welcome the free Belarusians in the family of democratic European countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u255	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed... I don't see any more calls. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. I ask the senator to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u256	High Senate! The meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on proposals submitted at second reading to the opinion on the principles for the use of the Instrument for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity, set up by the European Union, print No 397, will take place 5 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 176/179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u257	Dismissed until 9:40 p.m. It will be followed by a vote. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 03 to 21 minutes 40]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u258	I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the Senior Convention has set a deadline for an additional Senate meeting on 10 June this year. The next meeting is scheduled for 16, 17 and 18 June. The arrangements for these meetings will be provided to you by electronic means. We return to the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the law amending the Foreign Service Act. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union presented a draft resolution in which it asked for an amendment to the Senate Act No 404 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the committee. The amendment aims to limit the amendment to the amendment specifying which type of absence of a foreign service member does not constitute a temporary inability to perform its duties in a foreign institution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 48 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 84]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 96 were in favour, against no one, and one abstained. [[Voting No 85]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Foreign Service Act. We would like to return to the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: a second reading of the draft opinion on the principles for the use of the European Union's Instrument for Reconstruction and Immunity. Following a second reading of the draft opinion, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and obliged these committees to submit an additional report at the current Senate meeting. It is in print No 397 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Bogdan Klich, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If I may, it's on the spot. Four applications have been submitted, including a proposal to reject the project. The joint committees recommend rejecting the proposal for rejection and adopting 3 amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u260	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicant want to speak again? Let me remind you that during your second reading, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Senator Magdalena Kochan, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz and Senator Jerzy Czerwiński submitted proposals of a legislative nature. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? I don't hear any calls. So we proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the draft opinion and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments in the order of the draft provisions. We are voting on Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's motion to reject the draft opinion. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 48 were in favour, 50 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 86]] In view of the results of the vote and of the rejection of the proposal to reject the draft opinion, we are voting on the amendments tabled. If you don't mind, I'll read them in a nutshell. Amendment 1, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 87]] Amendment 2, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz and Senator Magdalena Kochan. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 46 against, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 88]] Amendment 3, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 89]] We are voting on the draft opinion as a whole, with changes resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Applause]] [[Voting No 90]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft opinion on the principles for the use of the European Union's Instrument for Reconstruction and Enhancing Immunity. We would like to return to the discussion of item twenty-nine of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution condemning the actions of the Belarusian authorities against the fundamental principles of international law. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading will only cover the vote. I would also like to remind you that the draft resolution is included in print No 412. We proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 91]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution condemning the actions of the Belarusian authorities against the fundamental principles of international law. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the twenty-fourth Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. I'd like to be the first to make a statement from Senator Rafał Sillyman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Inspired by the Year of Saint Joseph announced by the Holy Father, we would like to encourage you to take up the subject of fatherhood in a wide range of society. Saint Joseph is an archetype of a good father, so it is extremely valuable to remind his fatherly qualities and attitudes. This is especially important today when next to fathers... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...seriously taking responsibility for the care and upbringing of their own children are many who do not give priority to their fatherhood. A symptom of this is the increasing raising of children by one of the parents, mostly by the mother. But to meet the basic needs and proper development, children need both parents who love them. And the mother and the father are irreplaceable. It is a well-known fact that healthy social development is influenced by well-functioning families based on lasting, happy relationships in which both parents support and care for their children. We encourage you to bring this truth and multilateral action to strengthen responsible and caring fatherhood. It is possible to take a lot of action, from increasing the amount of time spent actively by fathers with children, through conferences and workshops strengthening the skills of fathers, to developing family counseling, reflection on the relationship between parents and retreats for fathers. It is desirable to prepare information showing the value of paternity and helping creatively solve educational problems and publish them in mass media. At present, programmes are needed to support paternity at state and local government level and non-governmental organisations, educational and pastoral programmes. It is about creating support for the best possible role-playing of the mother and father and combating the trend of single parenting. An inspiration for us can be the beautiful letter of the Holy Father Francis, the Patris corde, the fatherly heart, written on the occasion of the hundredth fiftyth anniversary of the announcement of Saint Joseph as the patron of the universal Church and the announcement of the year 2021 as the Year of Saint Joseph. Ewa Kowalewska, Club of Friends of Human Life; Antoni Szymański, Chairman of the Chapter of the Prize Pro Ecclesia et Populo; Anna Bialik, President of the Association of Christian Psychologists; Witold Toczyski, Association of Civil Debates; Marcin Kręcicki, Gdański Klub Padre; Waldemar Jaroszewicz, Catholic Association of Christian's Civitas, Grzegorz Grochowski, Foundation Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u262	Thank you very much, senator. The statement will be made by Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I apologize in advance for repeating something that I have already said here many times, but I am obliged that 50 senators signed to the Prime Minister to finance CAR-T cell therapy for children fighting for their lives with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, which is 15 per year in Poland. Wrocław is the only centre accredited to use this method. This method requires PLN 1 million 300,000 per child. It really is a great effort to gather this 1 million 300,000 for each of the children. We've done six of these procedures so far, six children have a life saved. And there's no way this life can be saved in any other way. Olek, who had the first such procedure in March, 4 March Ub. Y., it's been over a year. The rest of the kids live less. Let's hope that, as it says in the literature, the treatment should hold the tie permanently. This is the big future. Other children will be treated with various other cancers. Of course, this is also used in adults. At the last meeting of the Senate Health Committee, Minister Miłkowski promised me, once again... This is not the first promise, I had promises from Minister Szumowski, from many vice ministers. But this time Minister Miłkowski promised me that no later than September 1st, or maybe July 1st he will put it on the refund list so that the parents of the next children And right now, two of them are picking up They didn't have to raise that money. And I strongly urge that this really be the case. And he told me something that just knocked me off my feet. - The truth. When I said it, I knew it. That the Minister has the right not to rely on the negative opinion of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification, so-called. AOTMIT, because that's what happens in this situation. Isn't that life you can save the kids right away? Just scrape that money off people of good faith. But I urge it to happen at last, because it's a shame. There's death on one side, death on the other. A life that costs 1 million 300 thousand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u264	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Ewa Matecka will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yeah, me, too, about the cancers. The statement is addressed to the Minister of Health Adam Niedzielski. Dear Minister, For a long time, oncology experts have been calling an alarm due to the expected plague of cancer. This is partly due to diagnostic delays resulting from the pandemic situation, but clinicians also point to largely negligence within the state's health policy. Government representatives often stress the increase in oncology expenditure, but this does not translate, so far, into improving the quality of medical services and universal availability to traditional and modern therapies. Moreover, in many cases, the amounts allocated to oncology benefits are found to be significantly reduced. It was reduced, for example, compared to last year and the previous amount for chemotherapy. A little of this, a HER2 positive medication was withdrawn from the list of refunded medicines for patients with HER2 breast cancer. It is worth noting that this problem does not concern, as the Minister stated, only 80 women. This is because we are talking about more than 1,000 women, for whom there is still a high likelihood of recurrence and metastases of breast cancer. Such situations mean huge personal dramas, and in extreme cases Just a death sentence. The estimated increase in cancer in Poland is about 40%. This means that, in proportion to these predictions, care and free and universal access to treatment should be ensured for an increasing number of patients. So I ask you to answer the following questions urgently. If so, then when The Ministry of Health will reinstate oncology medications, including HER2 positive breast cancer? Is there any programme or strategy of action in the face of such a dramatic increase in cancer? Has financial resources and medical facilities been provided for the time of increased cancer? Or, if so, when will the Medical Fund, which should now have the amount of PLN 6 billion, be launched in order to run all the additional procedures announced there? The answers to these questions seem necessary in the current situation in order to be able to diagnose relatively precisely the state of preparation of health care for the worsening crisis in Polish oncology. And another statement, also addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr Adam Niedzielski. Dear Minister, In the face of the constant and growing chaos associated with the vaccination system proposed by the government to Poles, there are constantly growing emotions and discussions, and the main reason for them is, above all, conflicting information which is received in connection with the purchase and supply of vaccines and the organisation of the system itself. In view of such information noise, the average recipient has the right to feel lost and thus indirectly doubt the meaning of vaccination at all. And these attitudes painfully also show new statistics on people who are reluctant to immunize. Therefore, I ask you to answer the following questions. Is it true that initially Poland ordered only 6 million 600 thousand doses of Moderna vaccine from its 13 million? Is it also true that 9 million doses of Pfizer have been discontinued? Do you also confirm that Poland did not benefit from all its supplies and purchased only 2/3 of its available doses from Astra Zeneca, which means about 8 million less under the basic agreement? Is it also true that the Polish government has not placed an order under an additional agreement with Moderna, which means almost 7 million doses less? Is it also true that the government gave up 13 million doses of Purevax, which was admitted to the European market in April? Is it also true that in April Poland bought 20 million vaccines from Astra Zeneca, including 4 million for resale to countries outside the European Union, at a time when the government announced that due to limited supplies it was going to purchase additional vaccines outside the common EU procurement system? Is it also true that the government has made an offer to the Danish authorities by declaring its willingness to buy back unused Johnson & Johnson vaccines? How many doses of vaccines have been disposed of? And last question: will the government finally decide to pass on the implementation of the vaccination programme to local governments and give up any form of centralisation at organisational level? Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u266	Thank you, Senator. And I ask you to make a statement by Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u267	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senate! I would like to make a statement to the Minister of Climate and Environment, Mr Michael Kurtyki. It is related to the case of nickel cross-sections in water supplied by the Świętniki network water supply in Sobótka commune. Sobótka is a beautiful municipality located absolutely beautifully in Lower Silesia, with an interesting community that lived there mainly because of a fantastic climate, conditions, peace and quiet. Unfortunately, for some time these people have been struggling with a very serious problem of water quality, the one that is intended for consumption. I will build up my question with a certain introduction, which is mainly linked to the quite widespread disregard for environmental problems, but also with controls, those controls that guarantee the residents, in short, the absence of health losses. I will pay attention to this Sobótka because that is where numerous interventions of activists, journalists appeared. They concerned at the beginning only and exclusively or primarily the increased amount of nickel in water intended for consumption. Research of the District Sanitation and Epidemiology Station in Wroclaw confirmed - I want to emphasize clearly, confirmed A high degree of nickel in water intended for consumption. The water samples provided by the waterworks were tested. Very low was also confirmed This is the fourth group. The quality of water, which is intended for the production of consumption water, i.e. still raw water. This is because the inhabitants themselves feel helpless in some sense. They intervene in a variety of ways, and they also send proof to my office that the water does not meet the basic conditions. We also have information from doctors who point out that gastric and dermatological symptoms in children, but also in adults in Sobótka commune must have origins related precisely to water consumption, the one which is intended, as I said, not only for drinking, simply for consumer purposes. In the current situation, the county health inspector in Wrocław undertook to increase supervision of the quality of water supplied from the Świątniki network water supply in terms of nickel content. This has been done several times, I have one of the materials from this control and I confirm that it is simply catastrophic. Unfortunately, this is ignored by local authorities. I have an appeal to the Minister to do something I'm asked to do as a senator. In order to make, in short, such a parliamentary, senator's check. But what should this check look like when it comes to tests that need to end with specialist laboratories? Therefore, I call once again to support the actions of these citizens, journalists, simply activists and, in short, to carry out measurements and checks from the real event, so that there is no doubt where this is the source of such serious pollution. A brief introduction to all this: in the area of climate policy and the environment, these environmental measures, we are still in the background. We either eliminate wind power plants or block them, and we also do not allow solutions that would be helpful when it comes to environmental control. That's why this topic, I think, is such a good pretext, a good prognosis of government activity in this matter. And this is the first statement. I also have a second, much shorter. This second statement is addressed to the Minister of Finance, Funds and Regional Policy, Mr Tadeusz Kościński, and concerns inflation in Poland. Dear Minister, April 2021 was really catastrophic for us, especially with regard to the high mortality associated with COVID-19, but not only. Unfortunately, April was also dramatic in terms of inflation. In some ways, inflation kills, too. It kills the economy, kills savings, kills the middle class, reduces the determination to save, in some sense also to invest. In Poland, this inflation amounted to over 4%, exactly 4.3% year by year. This is the highest level, the level of grossness, the level of the situation of Poland against the background of Europe unfortunately at the summit. According to Eurostat, Poland has the most dynamic price increase in the European Union. The government in the budget assumed an annual average price increase of 1.8% But economists expect it to be about 4%. Just like it was in April. Growth in inflation hits first and foremost And that's what I want to draw attention to. In those with the lowest income. They cut products, they melt the savings collected on investments, prices rise, as well as administrative services. This is also linked to a certain policy, sometimes environmentally friendly, in quotes, for example. about the disposal of rubbish But also the economy understood as the elements that make up the cost of living, and here inflation is unfortunately going to explode. High inflation benefits, partly of course, the government, because it has higher incomes, but everyone else is losing it. I therefore ask the Minister to inform you of what the government is planning to do in order to reduce this negative phenomenon. What will the Minister, the Government, do to increase the protection of those who pay the highest price when it comes to inflation? And what will be regional policy in this area, linked to the increase in investment costs by local authorities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u268	Thank you, Senator. And I ask you to make a statement from Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u269	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a dramatic appeal to Minister Zbigniew Ziobra, who is the Minister of Justice. Dear Minister, As a senator of the Republic of Poland, I ask the Minister about such a tragic state of Polish courts. I look with great concern, for example. the situation in the District Court of Sulcin. Today, there has been paralysis due to lack of personnel. It's just that there's no one to judge. The President of the District Court of Sulcin, Sebastian Petlik, was also the head of the Civil Division and ruled there with 2 other judges. However, he has been delegated and since the beginning of this year he has been acting as a judge at the Regional Court in Gorzów Wielkopolski. Moreover, the College of the District Court has released the judge from the obligation to complete the cases he was conducting and the other two judges of the Civil Division of the Court of Sulcin are on sick leave. Among the cases led by Sebastian Petlik are those which required only a judgment. What is important, Judge Sebastian Petlik is still the President of the District Court of Sulcin. After the president left, his unfinished business fell on the other judges. They were under a lot of pressure. After their transition to medical leave since mid-February, Minister, since mid-February, no case in the Civil Division has been identified by the judge. I ask: is this how the Polish justice system is repaired? I don't think you, Minister, have the slightest orientation here to talk about reform. It's not reform, it's chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u270	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor, i.e. to make a statement to Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr. Adam Niedzielski. Dear Minister, In view of the government's announcement on the payment of PLN 5 000 as part of a one-off allowance for non-medical covid staff, I would like to ask the following questions. What were the grounds for establishing the period worked for at least 21 days in the covid area as a condition for payment of the allowance? What about workers who have worked in the covid area less than 21 days and who have contracted COVID-19 koravirus during this period? Why these workers are not paid a 100% allowance salaries as well as medical staff? For what reasons was the employee group of the secretary of medical covid branches excluded from the catalogue of employee groups to which this supplement would be granted? At the same time, I request the urgent inclusion of the professional group of medical secretaries in the catalogue of groups to which this supplement will be paid. This particularly applies to secretaries working in hospital emergency services. I'm asking you kindly for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u272	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to make a statement from Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u273	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to make a statement about energy, and basically the problems that are related to energy in Poland. Namely, I would like to say that we do not take an example from what direction the neighbors are going. Therefore, on 24 June, a conference will be held in the Senate and we want to present another solution and how to exploit Poland's potential for energy production. The topic of the conference is the direction of exit from the energy trap in which Poland found itself and the stimulation of the economy towards the Green Deal. The representatives of the Silesian University of Technology will present how to get out of this energy trap, which directions have been chosen and what cognitive errors have been made so far, which cause Poland to go in the wrong direction. The efficient system of waste management in local governments and the acquisition of additional energy on the example of Swedish solutions, at this point the Swedes will present how they used incineration plants that burn waste, waste and produce electricity. The Swedes from these incinerators are getting almost 50% energy and this is very important. In Japan, 50% of waste incinerators are also produced. There are 3,000 incinerators in Japan. And that is the wrong reasoning, because we do not allow local governments to build waste incineration plants, because there is a misconception of carbon footprint, and we know that the European Union allows the use of something like this up to 20 MW and the carbon footprint is not taken into account. Representatives of the Warsaw University of Technology will show and present the integration of renewable energy sources in energy systems and their role in the transformation of the sector. The representatives of the State Forests will talk about the potential of forests, namely the energy forest. Representatives of companies that deal with energy in Poland, among others. Budimex will present what needs to be done quickly to improve the efficiency of energy investment in the transition process. It's gonna be June 24th. Everyone I talked about confirmed their presence. We especially invite local authorities to this conference, which have a problem not only with expensive energy, but also with waste, they do not know what to do with it. And we know that waste from Poland is now exported to the incinerator in Lithuania. Lithuanians smoke all this stuff, and it doesn't work well for us. We can't take advantage of the potential we have. We have, you can say, the most expensive energy in Europe, and it will be even more expensive, because there is a bad diagnosis of the problem and there are bad directions for solving it. That is why we want to present another solution at this conference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-27-senat-24-3.u274	Thank you, Senator. That concludes the statements. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The twenty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland is closed for the 10th term of office. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 22 minutes 20]]
