ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u1	Resume session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. We will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators taking part in the sitting. Please activate the machinery and surrender any voice to confirm presence. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We'll wait a little longer. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 66 senators voted and so many are currently attending the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, for technical reasons, I propose that the order of business be changed. To date, item 30th, from which we will start today, i.e. the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the situation arising after the decision of the TSUE on the Turin Mine will be considered as item seven of the agenda, i.e., in order, in a moment. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I also remind the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the senators that a half-hour recess will be announced today at 3 p.m. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the situation arising after the decision of the TSUE on the Turin Mine. I would like to welcome the government representative present at the meeting, the Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, please excuse me if I misread the name, but I will do my best. Mr Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński. I ask the Minister to speak and present the information. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I guess I didn't welcome Minister Piotr Grandpa... I understand you're being delegated by your Undersecretary Chetwertyński. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: We will present this issue together.]] Okay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to brief you on the situation in the Turov area. The first part will be the part that concerns the technical side, very technical issues related to what the facts are and what this dispute is really about. The point is that we all clearly realise what the technical, substantive situation is like in the Turov area. I would like to introduce to you that, on 30 September last year, the Czech Republic made a complaint to the European Commission about an alleged infringement of European Union law by the Republic of Poland. The stage of the dispute between the two sovereign states by the Court of Justice of the European Union should not be reached at all, as this undermines our good neighbourly relations, which have been repeatedly emphasized, among others, by the Court of Justice of the European Union. through joint work within the Visegrad Group. The Republic of Poland has always responded to requests, proposals from the Czech party and declared its willingness to cooperate fully, as well as to provide all necessary information requested by the Czech party on an ongoing basis. By order of 21 May 2021, the Vice-President of the Court of Justice of the European Union, having regard to the request of the Czech Republic to apply provisional measures... This was based on an incorrect factual and legal situation. And I would like to present this fact to you in a brief presentation. The vice-president of the Court of Justice of the European Union first acknowledged... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Minister Skurkiewicz, please concentrate. The subject is important.]] The vice-president of the Court of Justice of the European Union considered, first of all, that the decision extending the concession for the mine of the Tours until 2026 was adopted on the basis of a provision exempting it from the requirement to obtain a decision on environmental conditions. The decision of the Climate Minister did not contain such a legal basis and was preceded by a decision on environmental conditions issued on 21 January 2020 by the Regional Environment Director in Wrocław. The order of the Vice-President of the Court of Justice of 20 September 2021 obliges Poland to pay the daily penalty and contains an enigmatic justification. This makes Poland reserves the right to submit further requests for a change in the safeguard measure, especially in view of the risks it poses for the stability and security of the national and EU energy system. And right now, I'd like to present you a presentation. If I could ask for a display of it... Ladies and gentlemen... I don't know if she's visible. It's clearly visible. I can see it now. A few points that I would like to present in this presentation are included in this first preliminary slide. I would like to tell you, first of all, about the environmental impact of the brown coal mine in Turów. And in this matter, I will pay particular attention to air quality, noise, underground water and droughts, which were the basis for the complaint lodged by the Czech Republic on the Republic of Poland. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the economic and social importance, both from a local, national and international point of view, of the existence of a permanent brown coal mine in Turów. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start with the first slide. The first slide will focus on air quality and air quality monitoring in the border area between the Czech Republic, Poland and the Federal Republic of Germany. There are 7 air quality monitoring stations in this area. 4 stations are located in the territory of the Republic of Poland, 2 stations In the Czech Republic, 1 station in the Federal Republic of Germany. The map indicates their location. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the measurements that are being carried out and in accordance with how EU law defines pollution, the state of air pollution... I'll show you later how these monitoring stations measure what they've measured. However, according to the definition adopted in European Union law, overshoot is defined as threatening to society when dust levels are higher than 50 mg per m3 but within 35 days per calendar year. Measurements in 2020 at the station in Dzioszyn showed 2 days, in March, exceeding the acceptable level. And measurements in 2021 at the same station in Dzioszyn showed 9 days, in February, March and April, with such a level exceeded. And now: correlation of measurements from 2021 in Polish and Czech stations in Uhelna... This is the station that is closest to the border with the Commonwealth and in the dispute zone, so to speak, in the Uhelná zone. These stations showed three days of simultaneous exceedance of the acceptable level. On the next slide, I will show you how these exceedance of quality standards in 2021, which I mentioned earlier, looked like. If you look at the map on the left... This is the February 2021 data, and these red points represent the overshoots. So is the middle map, which shows the crossings of February 25th. And these red points also show over 50 mg per m3. On the other hand, the map on the right, the last one, shows the situation from 1 April, where this crossing is very, very local, only and exclusively. For this reason, the conclusions are: these overruns of 24 and 25 February. This is mainly the concentration of PM10 dust, which occurred in an area much larger than that of the Brunette Coal Mine in Turów. This Worek Turoszowski is here... I don't know if I can show it... [[I don't think that's gonna work.]] I don't think he's gonna make it. Excuse me. I think you know where this Worek Turoszowski and Turoszów are. So right where it is the indentation of the border of the Republic towards the Czech side, there is Worek Turoszowski. Ladies and gentlemen, there are overruns here, which are regional. They are not related to the Brunat Coal Mine, because see how large the area they cover. Both the Polish side, the Czech side and the German side. We can't imagine such a wide range... that the functioning of one small issuer could affect such a regional spread of pollution. This is unbelievable. It's physically impossible. This is related to the weather, it is related to the fact that local wind was missing, which means there was no wind, and in fact there was no ventilation, and this emissions were actually mainly from households. The same was true in April 2021, which also indicates a very local nature of pollution. Ladies and gentlemen, what lessons can be drawn from this? As I have already said, the stations that have investigated this have only reported such exceptional, individual cases of exceeding the permissible air quality level. They do not occur in cycles, in series, they do not occur in the long horizon of time, i.e. during many days, only very occasionally. Very, very sporadic. They were mainly related to weather conditions, conditions related to tougher winters, because it was early 2021. And those slight overruns that occurred were the result of emissions from different emission sources located in this area. The results of the measurements do not in any way entitle to assign the Brown Coal Mine in Turów to a negative effect on air. Another charge, which the Czech side has made to us, concerns noise in the Turov region. And here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that measurements in the territory of the Republic are carried out by the mine in 9 locations, in accordance with the environmental decision which has been issued, which has determined the number of places of measurement. And such a measurement, which... One of these points was located in the south, in the village of Białopole near the border of Poland with the Czech Republic, the other on the border of Poland and the Czech Republic, in Grodek nad Nysa, and another on the Czech side, in Uhelna. The results of the measurements are correlated, we are informed about these results. This is a map where it is indicated where the noise measurement stations are located. And what are the conclusions of the measurements in these 3 stations I mentioned, ladies and gentlemen? The noise measurement in relation to road and life noise in Poland, in Białopol at night, resulted in a result of 36.2 dB. In the Czech Republic it was a maximum of 33.9 dB in Uhelna and 35.9 dB in Grodek. These data are documented with these measurements. Ladies and gentlemen, the permissible noise level for this type of measurement for locations in both Poland and the Czech Republic is 40 dB. In none of these cases and in any of the periods we are talking about here, there was no coal mine during operation. Since it's been monitored. - Excuse me. - Excuse me. - Excuse me. Another important element is water, water, which has become the subject of a dispute and the issue of which has been discussed very strongly by the Czech side, both directly, bilaterally with the government and media. There are more than 4,000 research holes of different types in the Brunette Coal Mine area. These are geological, hydrogeological holes, which in a sense document the condition of geological construction and hydrogeological conditions. Of course, the exploitation of the Brunette Coal Mine has a direct impact on the level of waters, mostly tertiary waters, that is, the deeper ones, which I will tell you about in a moment. The effects on quaternary waters, i.e. waters, mainly from which drinking waters are taken into account in the Czech territory, are related only and exclusively to rainwater. This effect on quaternary waters, the shallow ones I have spoken of, and which are mainly powered by precipitation, is indirect, is the result of infiltration or leaking from these higher layers to those lower layers. In order to stop the flow of waters from third-order works, i.e. from those works where the exploitation of brown coal is carried out, the mine makes an anti-filtering screen. The expected effect of this screen will be to stop the flow of infiltration water from part of the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if this is clearly visible, but I would like to draw your attention to what I have just said. Here is a geological cross-section through the border area of the Czech Republic and the Republic of Poland. In this oval, the place where brown coal is used is indicated. See, look at the left part, which is the part that concerns the Czech Republic. In this area we see only third-order works, and the levels that are marked by such intermittent lines in the upper part are the water levels that have been documented in the so-called. supercarbon, intercarbon and subcarbon works for which there is a dispute. Ladies and gentlemen, in this part of the oval, in the central part is marked on a violet such vertical line that shows where the screen is made. This is an anti-filtration screen, currently made in almost 90%, which is supposed to stop infiltration water from third-order works, i.e. from the left to the right part to the mine. And that's what's happening. Such a screen was made from Germany, from the side of Nysa Łużycka several dozen or several decades ago and effectively stopped the flow of water from the German side to the Polish side, to the mine, of course, this part no longer exploited. In that part Now it's a dump. In the second section, I would like to draw your attention to a very important element and I would like you to remember this. In the second part we see a cross section that has the location of the southeast. The northern west, also through the opener, but also through the disputed zone, i.e. through the zone of waters collected in quaternary works, the yellow ones, at the top. They concern the Uhelne region. Here there are quaternary pieces that are mainly supplied with surface precipitation, there are no flowing waters, there are only water from precipitation. These surface precipitations feed quaternary tracks and quaternary tracks Uhelna hole, water shot in Uhelna. I'm sorry I can't show you this, but I think you'll read it. You can see that these waters come, as I said, from the precipitation and filtration of these waters is directed to the center, so-called. Hradek's reductions, because these are hydrogeological conditions, and these quaternary water supply this water shot in Uchelna, is a disputed water shot in Uhelna. And now a very important thing I'd like to say to you. Some of these rainwaters naturally infiltrate into these deeper waters, into the tertiary works, which are marked with such a light blue colour. In a moment, I'll tell you a little bit more about what we know about these waters, and they're not a key element in the supply of household power on the Czech side. They're not fit to drink. I'll tell you in a minute, that's what the test results show. So we have quaternary tracks that are affected by climate conditions, weather conditions, precipitation. Let me tell you this: on the side of our country we have piezometry holes in which last winter and this spring there were fluctuations of the groundwater mirror, especially in quaternary pieces. So the more rainfall we recorded at the turn of the year already affects the level of the waters we are talking about in different ways, the waters that are crucial to the Czech side. And now I am. We and the mine are doing measurements in piesometers, as I already mentioned. This network of piesometers concerns not only the mine-related zone, but also the German and Czech border zones. It is conducted with full monitoring of groundwater level. And we have doubts about certain issues. The point is that information on water levels in piesometers is not regularly transmitted by the Czech side. We ask for these measurements very often. They are passed on, but with a long delay, there is no good communication in this area. An important element is that third-row waters, as I showed you on the geological section, are both on the Czech side and on the Polish side. They're very well correlated, because they're in geological construction. there are no national boundaries. Geological construction is cross-border. Based on the research that was done by the mine... The mine is obliged to carry out physical chemistry tests of water flowing into mines and waters that occur in piesometers. The National Geological Institute has interpreted the results of these studies and it turns out that these waters are completely unfit for drinking. Waters flowing in the mine are very heavily contaminated both iron and magnesium compounds. They are also very cloudy. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of my experience, I can also point out Although the research has not been carried out that infiltrating water by coal decks, which are rich in organic matter, and this is actually the case, are also very often saturated with radioactive elements. I'm not saying that it is, but that there's a possibility that this should be demonstrated. It may turn out that these waters even after treatment They won't be fit to drink. This is a very important part of this whole discussion. What else do I want you to... Since 2014, the Czech Republic has seen the largest drought in almost 500 years. It does not apply only to the Turova region, it concerns the whole of the Czech Republic. The Czechs have often stressed in their discussions that this problem is and must face up to it. The drought effect is related to weather conditions, i.e. the amount of rainfall that is less. It is simply more dry days in the Czech Republic. That's the problem the Czechs are diagnosing. They diagnose him and talk about him openly inside their country. Drought is more or less diagnosed, meaning costs for the Czech economy, which in a few years can reach from 1.5 to up to 4.8%. GDP per year. These are huge losses. Czechs point out that they do not have enough rainwater to feed both agricultural crops and all these areas associated with the development of peri-agriculturalism, e.g. with the courtship. Well, all agriculture suffers from it. This shortage of water in 2019 was reported in every seventh district. Losses of up to 40% have been shown crops. At the peak of the drought, water scarcity threatened every fifth municipality in the Czech Republic, especially in the south of Moravia and in the north-western regions. And that's what I've drawn your attention to in the previous slides. It is the quaternary waters, rainwaters and waters located in quaternary works that are of the utmost importance in the Turov region, not those which are currently being fought on the Czech side. As for the effects of drought, the lack of water in the Czech Republic is a constant problem. As I mentioned at the outset, it concerns the whole of the Czech Republic, not only the Turova region or Turoszów region. Trouble... [[Minister, I'm sorry. I'm listening with an unusual interest in this lecture. The drought problem in the Czech Republic is indirectly related to Turov and you have signaled it well, but I would ask you not to deviate from the subject. Let's go back downtown, to the point.]] Good. I have already shown to you that drought is the cause of losses and concerns occurring actually throughout the Czech Republic. Let us therefore move on to further important elements, i.e. the local importance of the mines and power plants of the Turów. Today, the Turów complex provides livelihoods for nearly 80,000 employees, including 5,000 employees. Of course, there are many collaborators, collaborators in coal exploitation and technical matters. It also applies to their families. As I mentioned, the complex is a business partner for nearly 3,000 suppliers. Only in the last 2 years the complex has concluded contracts with external companies worth PLN 5.5 billion, contracts for the implementation of investments related to development and exploitation. The second important thing is that the Turów plant is one of the main suppliers not only of electricity but also of heat. It delivers them to the Bogatynia, to the entire community of Bogatynia. What is the significance of this for the entire electricity system? This power plant accounts for 4% on average national energy production and at a maximum level of up to 7%. It directly guarantees the energy security of Lower Silesia and is a key element of the entire national electricity system. This is a key element not only of the energy security of our country, its south-western part, but also of the European energy system. What is the situation with other mines in this area? In the area of Work Turoszowski, i.e. at the Czech-German-Polish border, there are 13 brown coal mines: 7 in Germany, 5 in the Czech Republic and only 1 in Poland. For most of the mines that occur there The exception is our mine The owner is the Czech owner. If we compare annual exploitation, we'll see that there's 7 and 10 million tons of coal per year in our complex. In Germany, the largest exploits 20 million t, and on the Czech side, which is the most distant from our border, operates in a range similar to ours, i.e. within 10 million t. That's pretty much what it looks like. As far as statistics on brown coal mining in the European Union are concerned, Germany is the largest producer, in the second place we are the Czech Republic, in the third place. The Czechs do the same as we do, on a scale similar to ours. Of course, the vast scope of this operation is on the German side. As we know, the Germans use the most, they produce the most energy from lignite. I have shortened this presentation because I would like to move on to such proposals that will be for you, it seems to me, the most important information, the essence of what I wanted to convey in today's presentation. The power plant in Turów is crucial in the national energy system. Responsible for 4% on average national energy production and is the only heat supplier for 17 000 inhabitants of the area, i.e. the inhabitants of Bogatyn and the entire community. That's where the hospital is, where the schools are. This is one of the basic areas where this heat is delivered, and we can't imagine right now that this heat in the autumn or the coming winter period will have I don't want to be there. The lack of extraction in the Brown Coal Mine in Turów means that the power plant must be completely shut down because there is no technical possibility of using another fuel, as indicated in various discussions in the media supplied from abroad. It is about the specific physical and chemical parameters of coal and the corresponding combustion plants that are adapted and used for combustion and electricity production. Noise measurements in 2020 confirm the lack of exceedance of acceptable levels. The biggest drought in the Czech Republic is recorded in 2014, which causes a huge shortage of water in every fifth municipality in the Czech Republic. And the key thing is that quaternary waters are mainly of precipitation origin and mining, the mining of coal in the Brunat Coal Mine in Turów has no direct impact on this, and the third-row waters I mentioned, the lower ones, coming from infiltrations that come out of the mine, are not suitable for drinking and are also a problem in terms of their use, even if necessary, due to the need for serious treatment. And no other country in which brown coal mines function intends to liquidate these resources, and the closure of Turova was never really the request of the Czech Republic for a complaint. Czechs stress that they are not interested in closing the mine. In this situation, we understand this as a political strategy which is currently being directed against the Republic of Poland. [[What are you saying?]] [[You're the one who's screaming...]] [[Please proceed to...]] Good. Well, maybe I'll just end it right now. I think that the second part of the negotiations will be presented to Minister Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński. You're welcome. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. I understand you'll be presenting the legal side to the Minister. I would also ask you to focus on this issue, without special references of a general nature. Besides, in the Senate, we do not restrict the freedom of discussion. So I invite you to perform.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to do this quickly and I will be happy to answer any questions I may have. As far as negotiations are concerned, they were obviously very intense, in the last 3.5 months we went to Prague 17 times to meet with a team of experts at the seat of the Ministry of Environment of the Czech Republic. Several, several people drove, depending on the topics that were to be discussed. This is really unprecedented talk intensity, rarely seen for such negotiations. In this matter, we work together, we negotiate together, because we act together as a collective of 4 ministers, in accordance with the decision of the President of the Council of Ministers. We here, as the Ministry of Climate and Environment, take care of substantive issues. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also involved, which is responsible for bilateral issues, and also the Minister for European Union Affairs, Minister for State Assets, who supervises the company's activities. In the course of these negotiations, we made concrete proposals to the Czech Republic on financing, on environmental issues, were proposals for commitments on monitoring, the impact of mines, on dust emissions, noise, the impact on underground waters, all of these issues which Mr Grandfather spoke about in detail. We are convinced that the solutions proposed by us would allow for a long-term resolution of the dispute with our southern neighbour and would also strengthen security throughout the region. This offer was undoubtedly the best proof of our goodwill, and it was designed to protect the current and future interests of the Liberec people neighbouring the mines in Turów. Moreover, in the course of these negotiations, we put on full transparency, making every effort to provide the Czech side with all the information about the mine she asked for. Unfortunately, as you know, on 30 September, our proposal was rejected by the Czech party. The election campaign period in the Czech Republic was undoubtedly an extremely difficult and uncomfortable time for these negotiations, but we are still flexible and ready to talk with the Czech Republic. Yesterday, the Minister of Climate and Environment received an invitation from his Czech counterpart and this invitation will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u5	Thank you very much, Minister, this is indeed important information. Would any of you senators like to ask a question to one of your ministers? If you'll excuse me, sir. There are places. 'Cause you're gonna have to come to the bleachers... Senator, you're the first one to report... Once again, if you can raise your hand... I'm gonna watch one by one, and you're gonna write down the secretary, so to speak. Senator Czerwiński, to the left: Senator Jazłowiecka, Senator Tyszkiewicz, Senator Kwiatkowski It's already saved. Senator Rotnicka, Senator Czarnobaj, Senator Bierecki, is already registered. If I skip a minimum order, we ask your forgiveness. Are you a senator too? [[Yes.]] Okay, Senator Swede. You're starting with Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u6	I am directing... I assume that, due to the scope of competence, this is a question to Minister Chetwertyński. What is the change in the position of the Czech party? I do not ask for our negotiating position, I understand that you would not like to state this, but the Czech side continues to maintain, in particular the representatives of local authorities, that they have presented the same expectations since the beginning of the talks. Hence my questions. What is the position of the Czech side? What was his evolution? Why has agreement not been reached in this regard? And I have a question for Minister Dziada: do you in the government even consider the problems of such towns? On the one hand, we have Turów here, and on the other hand we have Bełchatów. I am asking in the context of the proposals for cities which are about to have a problem because, with these emissions prices and climate policy, production from lignite has the prospects it has. I'm asking you to tell me if there's an analysis in the government of what to do with the plans for these towns. Or about, for example, Are there any plans for another type of energy to be there? You're talking about hydrogen energy. Please inform whether the localities in which you will restrict or terminate such production will be able to expect any concrete proposals from the government. I'm talking about Turov and Bełchat.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u7	Please, which one of you will answer that question? [[Voice from the room: Minister Chetwertyński...]] First of all, the question was addressed to Minister Chetwertyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As to the first question asked by your senator, I would like to answer that question because the issue concerns international relations and issues for which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible, including those involved in these discussions. I am aware that the issue is extremely interesting, especially for our public opinion. And that's why I understand the question, I understand the reasons for his assignment. Nevertheless, in view of the fundamental issue addressed by each responsible negotiating partner, i.e. the issue concerning the details of the other party's position, until we can talk about the final and irrevocable termination of these discussions, such a position cannot be disclosed. Therefore, I have to answer this question precisely in such a way that, as regards the details of the evolution of the position on the individual points of the agreement, we will not speak at this stage, in view of the good of these negotiations and for the good of mutual relations. Other - about the question you asked the senator. I'd like to turn this over to my colleagues at the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u9	As far as the second part of the question is concerned, whether there are any plans regarding Turov or Bełchatowa regarding the use of this area in the field of other energy... It's like a just transformation, which means this is the document... There are those issues that are most important to us. And all these areas. Both Turov and Belchatov They are included in the Fair Transformation Programme. And this program is being prepared. Now one important thing: Turov's operating plan is planned until 2044, so it is too long for us today to plan any other activity in Turowa. As far as Belchat is concerned, this is a shorter time segment and the Belchat is included in this Just Transformation document. That's one thing. Secondly, with regard to other brown coal mines, such as those which are private mines, there are planned investments in renewable energy sources and perhaps others related to nuclear energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u10	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jazlowick a question. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna drop the question because the answers don't satisfy us at all. It's a bullshit story all the time. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have a few questions, but I'll try to group them up. The first concerns, I would call it, issues of fact related to environmental protection. If you wouldn't mind... I'm not pointing. Which one of you will feel the answer... What exactly does the Czechs disagree with? What is the difference in negotiating positions? If it's possible to pass it on. What are they questioning? Second question. Because press releases have appeared that this is not the only point of dispute or that it might not be the only point of dispute about this place, about Worek Turoszowski and that there are places where, in turn, the negative impact of other devices, power plants or production plants, whether in Germany or in the Czech Republic, can have negative effects in Poland. Have we raised such questions before? And the third question, generally related to environmental issues. I remember such stumps of trees standing in the Krkonoše Mountains and in the Jizera Mountains. It was an obvious effect on the air this time, not on water. from Germany and the Czech Republic. Tell me if we were trying to get some compensation back then. Were there any proceedings? Did we simply address this matter within our own powers and competences? And one last thing, that's typical, that's related to bilateral relations. I understand that the Czech side at some point, for presumably political reasons, has started the process of entering into a dispute. But we have other disputes with the Czech Republic, e.g. on border issues that have not yet been resolved. I have information from 2020, which describes in detail this Czech debt. More than 360 hectares are, so to speak, due to the Czechs when it comes to border regulation. It hasn't been solved so far. Shouldn't it be, if the Czechs want to deal in a comprehensive way with us, simply speed this up, speed up the negotiations in this area?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u12	There you go. I'm asking for answers, if you don't mind, compact and concrete.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Thank you so much for these questions. As for the first question, regarding the differences between Poland and the Czech Republic, here I must answer very much the same as I answered the question of Senator Kwiatkowski... [[You can't just...]] I mean... Excuse me, is that a question for me? [[The Minister can't say, of course...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm not particularly comfortable in conditions where the left side of the room is constantly interrupted. [[Voice from the room: It's a phobia.]] I'm trying to be specific. [[There's a session... excuse me.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[There's a question and answer session. Please leave your comments until the debate.]] Thank you very much. I can repeat the information that was given in the media. They're really true. "One of the most important points of the dispute was, you can say, a complex matter, because these are interrelated matters, the question of the duration of the contract and the possibility of its termination in case, for example. there have been violations by one of the parties. In this respect, there was a considerable discrepancy between the positions of the two negotiating teams. The Polish position was related to the fact that the agreement to a contract which would not in any way be acceptable would simply be detrimental to the interests of the State. As I say, in view of the good of the process of possible further negotiations, I must leave this issue at this very point. There are many ways out of this situation, but in order to find this exit, it is necessary to have direct talks with the Czech partners. As for the fourth issue raised by your senator, which also belongs to the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there are indeed disputes between our countries. Fortunately, we can say that these matters in our entire relationship are much less than those in which we agree. However, of course, both the issue of territorial debt and a few other issues in bilateral relations, in which we have a different opinion or even a dispute, are taken into account by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the appropriate diplomatic action carried out. However, we are trying to avoid, especially in public debates, linking these issues and signaling that they are closely connected. This does not mean, however, that we do not take actions which aim to resolve all issues at stake for the benefit of Poland. As for the details, again for the sake of this whole process... These are not matters that can be commented on at this stage without maintaining appropriate clauses. Thank you very much... To the rest of the... I give the floor to colleagues from the Ministry of Climate and Environment. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u14	Minister, I would like to remind you that you are in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. If you believe that certain subjects cannot be accessed by the public, and yet there should be senators, please submit a request for a secret meeting, in secret. That's what we're gonna do. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: I do not have such information.]] [[A voice from the hall: The Minister will not submit, because there is nothing to tell.]] You're welcome, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: If I may...]] [[Then you're surprised the ministers don't want to come to the Senate.]] [[Voice from the room: Grace...]] [[Voice from the room: It is a duty.]] Dear Sirs, Dear Sirs, Mr. Marshal... [[Voice from the O.R.: Don't interrupt.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there's a matter of... It's my job, just like any marshal in charge... At the moment we are at the question and answer point. There will, of course, be an open discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u15	Briefly when it comes to environmental aspects. Ladies and gentlemen! We have full monitoring of the impact of mining activities, even mines located on the German side, for example in the area of the town of Gubin. We've got it fully monitored right now. This requires some activity. Of course, this emerging depressive funnel associated with the operation of German mines is documented. We know that this depressive lobe is present. We've got full surveillance. And I'm not hiding that there's still such an extra, very detailed analysis going on right now. But it takes a little time for us to do it effectively and so effectively. This is one of the areas. The second area is, of course, the occurrence. As mentioned above, the so-called. acid rains. But these are... 30 years ago... These are actually the rainfalls that caused the destruction of some of the Krkonoše forests. We don't, I don't have that kind of knowledge, that there's a trial and compensation case going on in this period. It's unknown to me. So I can't answer that question. However, of course, monitoring of the influence of all power plants or other activities that may have an impact on the environment in the Republic of Poland is conducted on an ongoing basis by GIOŚ. But we do not have such signals that they present a threat that will affect the environment today, except for the western part of the German mines that I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u16	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u17	Minister... Very short for you to see Minister Grandpa. A very short question and a very short answer I would ask. You said that this was a strategy intended against the Republic of Poland. Short question: by whom? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u18	I can't tell you clearly because it's... The source of this conflict is on the Czech side. So I can only answer that this is a strategy on the Czech side.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u19	Thank you very much. Let me now ask Mr Chetvertyński a question in the course of the discussion. Minister, I have had the honour of hosting the head of the Czech Senate and I have spoken with the head of the Czech Parliament many times. They worry about it as much as we do, because, as we know, they won't get the money out of those penalties. This is severe for Poland, because it is the money of us taxpayers. Their main complaint was that at least 2,5 years ago Poland has ignored Speaking the youth language, she didn't give a shit. The Czech Republic's proposals to solve this problem, also regarding this diaphragm in the ground that was supposed to stop these roads. Are you confirming that it's just... You yourself said from this stand that it's only been three and a half months since intensive negotiations have been taking place. And my meetings with the high representatives of the Czech authorities have been taking place for over a year and this topic has been discussed every time. Did we really ignore the Czechs, causing them to be irritated?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This mine has been operating here for almost 100 years, and these discussions, local problems, of course, have been happening for a long time. But as far as talks with the Czech Republic are concerned, I think that this image, which you presented here to the marshals, does not fully reflect the content and course of our discussions with the Czechs. We had many contacts with the Czech Republic, we agreed on a normal procedure, resulting from our international obligations, from the ESPO Convention, from the EU directives. In a cross-border consultation with the Czech Republic, what are the problems that may be caused by the mine's activities and how to solve them in terms of pollution, noise, dust and water. And for each of these problems, we have identified the potential actions that have been written down in the protocol of the cross-border consultation, and it has been confirmed by the Czech delegation, by the person empowered by the Czech Government to take such commitments. And unfortunately, even though such a protocol was concluded, even though the Polish party complied with all the provisions contained in this protocol The Czech party has escalated this dispute by initiating the construction of certain solutions to address these risks. I understand that there were also political reasons for local and parliamentary electoral campaigns. But it is not true that Poland did not listen to these Czech expectations and did not try to meet them. Even together, we have identified how to solve these issues. But this case continued before the escalation to the Court. I mean, after signing this agreement, after a few months, the Czech party suddenly said that they did not want to respect this agreement, and made further demands which were not identified in this mentioned cross-border protocol. That was before the environmental decision was made. So that, when preparing the environmental decision, the Directorate-General took account of these Czech comments and the relevant provisions appeared in the final environmental decision, which was again a solution to this further Czech expectation, presented after the agreement of the protocol of the cross-border consultation. But it wasn't the end of the case, and so the Czech side decided to raise further points and escalate the case. So... I do not want to speculate on the reasons for this, but this has been the true course of these discussions with the Czech Republic over the last three years on this issue. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u21	Thank you, Minister. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u22	Minister, the Czech Republic is such an interesting country where, during the last election campaign, the opposition, which has now come to power, has repeatedly stated that it is a country subject to the interests of the oligarchs, headed by the current Prime Minister, Mr Babiš. My question concerns ownership, business relations between people in the Czech government In particular, it is the person of Mr Babiš and the owner of mines located in the territory of Germany, which are controlled by the Czech company. According to the Czech media, these business relations between the two masters, the Prime Minister and the owner of these mines, are long-term and very intense. I would like to ask if this information is known to our negotiators and if any conclusions are drawn from it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u23	Which minister do you address this question to, Senator? [[To the Foreign Minister.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Of course, this issue is taken into account by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including the negotiating team. I think that this information, which appeared to the media, is important if you take into account this question, which came here, in the Chamber a little earlier, namely the question of what was the source, what was the reason why the Czech party decided to take such far-reaching actions, actions which, in fact, could be said to be aggressive. Well, in bilateral relations, this is the way to treat actions involving suing a second state into an international tribunal of any type. And there are actually many possible answers to that question. It would undoubtedly be naive if we thought that various kinds of business relationships, private relationships, social relations, relationships resulting from previously occupied positions or functions performed by persons who have no bearing on these decisions. However, it would not be appropriate to enter into such speculation on the parliamentary floor from the point of view of the Foreign Minister. As part of it... Actually, you have to understand it two ways. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is primarily guided by the interest of Polish foreign policy, and in the interest of Polish foreign policy it is in maintaining good relations with the Czech Republic. Even if certain political forces in the Czech Republic use some kind of arguments during the election campaign, it is not the role of the Polish government to further strengthen such arguments. This would not be comfortable from our point of view if the governments of other countries used such arguments in relation to Poland. Well, you can talk about it not so much in an assumed mode, but in an informed manner, because governments of other countries sometimes use this kind of argument in relation to Poland. We always react negatively to this, so we try to avoid doing the same thing with other countries. And the second thing, perhaps even more important, is that, because it comes directly from the law, is that certain information that is in the possession of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, information about those matters that you are asking the senator about, is simply secret, is covered by clauses. And here I will refer briefly to what you suggested earlier by Marshal Grodzki. Of course, you can apply for classified meetings. If the High House considers that such a request could be made... Well, it's your authority. However, in the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this is not the case because this information presented here by the government... The reason why the government presents this information is that the government simply wants to voluntarily share what it can reveal. In accordance with the Polish Constitution, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland has a control function and this Sejm may, in such situations, request the transmission of information covered by the clues of secrecy. If such a request is made, the government will, of course, respond to it in an appropriate manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u25	Thank you, Minister. The Senate may also order a secret meeting, Minister. He can also request information. Of course, there is no control function, no government control, no control powers, but it has the right to information. Now, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. I would ask that the senator's statements be in the minutes of questioning. And the ministers, please answer briefly. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I gave up most of the questions after Minister Jablonski answered. I've already found out what the concept is. Poland in the area of negotiations. We have some sort of secret weapon in the form of some kind of connection between Germany and Poland, somewhere around... It's a typical, good strategy. But I have a question for Minister Grandpa. Minister, can you tell me one thing? When I watched your presentation... In fact, you can say so briefly that everything comes out okay, that everything is okay. That's what I'm talking about. Is that the first thing the Czechs do? Secondly, what is the result of your experience? Does the open-air mine, located anywhere in the Czech Republic, Germany, Poland, have a positive or negative impact on the environment, especially with regard to people? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ambassador of what?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, I'm basically asking about the rule. Is the mine in which it is operated... [[Talking in the O.R.]] If Senator Mammoth didn't understand... [[I didn't say anything.]] ...I'll explain it to him at break. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u27	Mr. Senator Blackbay, the question has been asked, right? [[Mr. Senator Blackbay, please...]] Mr. Senator... [[I didn't say anything.]] Mr. Senator... [[I'm sorry.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Ambassador...]] I already suspect you're still talking here. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm sorry if I summoned you unnecessarily. I'm asking for an answer. Which minister? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Mr. Senator, I did not hear the second part of the question due to confusion. Please repeat the question.]] Say it again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u28	The first part is agreed. Minister, the second part of the question is this. In your view, as a minister and experienced person with regard to the impact of various economic activities on the human environment, let's call it so trivial... Is your assessment of the coal mine using the open-air method beneficial, adversely, or indifferent to the whole environment?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u29	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u30	The question is really complex, because every mine has an impact on the environment. Every mine. This impact can reasonably be levelled, controlled, so that it does not first and foremost threaten the human being as the one who lives in the environmental conditions in question. This is the first element. The Brunat Coal Mine in Turów is focused on this activity. It's obvious. As far as the first question is concerned, the impact... The things I've told you, which I've shown, are documented. These are actual data, this is a set of actual data. I didn't write this presentation without collecting the data. This is based on the data we have in our country, which has a mine, have geological services and environmental control services. That's a fact. But we all know that every activity and every interference in the environment leaves its mark. Nevertheless, every reasonable country in its reasonable mining activity is carrying out a rehabilitation process which is planned for many years and is expected to reverse the environmental effects created by exploitation, i.e. interference with the natural environment. We return to these environmental conditions as much as possible. We often improve even environmental conditions. We know of such cases that in recultivated areas, in fact, after mining operations, they arise especially favourable habitat conditions, because these areas are peaceful. There are favourable conditions for vegetation, for water accumulation, hydrogeological conditions improve. Very many mines, which are opencast mines, are flooded and are excellent recreational waters. Environmental conditions are improving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u31	Thank you. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u32	Thank you very much. Gentlemen! It's a matter of course. I get it. In fact, every mine has an impact on the environment and every economic activity has its consequences. It's just that the consequences aren't too annoying for us. From what we learned from the presentation, it appears that the Polish side implements part of the agreement, putting up a resistive screen, but this only protects third-row water. In the opinion of the referee, I no longer remember which of you was talking about the fact that quaternary waters are not good enough anyway, that they are not very good... [[Voice from the room: Water...]] At least that's the way it is. I understand what you're saying. Which water and what is it really about the Czech Republic? Did the Polish side offer any suggestions to be met? Why didn't the Czechs agree, and why did they join the TSUE? What's really going on? Money or, I don't know, politics? Or is it that there is a certain diplomatic inability to negotiate with the Czech party? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u33	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u34	I answer the question and try to explain a little bit, because I may have misplaced my intention in terms of hydrogeological conditions... Quaternary waters, these shallow waters, are powered by rainwater and are the main source of water supply that is operated and used by the Czech side. Quaternary waters infiltrate gradually and in the long term into a third-order, flow through these third-row, carbon, intercarbon, and flow through the mines. Due to the fact that the level of third-rate water was decreasing... They're different because each level has its own mirror. Quarter-row waters have their mirror, mid-carbon, intercarbon, supercarbon, they have their mirrors, they infiltrate. Therefore, in order to stop these infiltrating waters from third-order works, the mine set up a screen so that there would be no change in the level of water in third-order works. And they, as we have shown, are unfit to drink. But we bowed to the Czech side, because we think it interferes, let's say, with some hydrogeological relationships in the environment. Therefore, this screen has been placed. And this is a condition that has also been recorded in the environmental decision. This means that we have identified this already between 2016 and 2019 and agreed that exploitation has an impact on these waters and needs to be isolated. As I said, it was with the German side, it was done, the screen effectively cut water infiltration into the mine and hydrogeological conditions on the German side stabilized. And these are the quaternary waters I wanted to mention. This is the second part of my speech. These are the ones that the Czech side uses as the main drinking water. And now, in the Uhelna area, that is, where this is the shot of quaternary water, this clean drinking water, there are also mining activities associated with the exploitation of gravel pits. The gravel pit is operating quaternary tracks, which are de facto disrupting hydrogeological conditions prevailing in quaternary tracks. This is what the Czechs do not want to talk about, and neither do we have any data about how this mine affects, but it is a large, multi-hectare, tens-hectare gravel pit, and gravel, as you know, has the best container properties, they are very permeable and such mining activities also interfere with these water relations. We are convinced of this, but we do not have Czech data, they do not want to share this data with us when it comes to the conditions involved. That's where the conflict is. We say: you should have this water, pay attention to your mining activities, also on your side. They don't want to admit it and they're throwing the blame... [[... yet...]] Yeah, and they're throwing the blame on us for us... Especially since these quaternary works, as I showed you on one of the cross-sections, there is no hydrodynamic communication on the Polish side, there is no hydrodynamic communication between these works on the Polish and Czech sides, and the power supply and hydrogeological system are such that the water So that they should have and have this water, and they do not signal us water shortages in the Uhelná shot hole, even confirm it in communication, in the decision... It was the communication between the distribution unit and responsible for the distribution of water on the Czech side... This unit made it clear during the studies and when issuing the environmental decision that there was no problem with water on the Czech side. Such documents occur, we have such documents. So this is the issue that is very important, necessary to understand this. The second point is whether we proposed... Of course we proposed different solutions in our discussion. These claims, these expectations were very, very large on the Czech side. It would be irrational to make decisions in this regard, since we know the hydrogeological conditions, we know the geological construction and we know that this exploitation does not affect neighboring areas, several or several dozen kilometers away from mining activities. Geological construction reduces the impact of this operation. We know that, it's generally available knowledge. So you can't just assume a priori that the mine causes such, not other changes and directly affects the Czech side at 500 or 1,000 m, but also at 14 or 16 km. You can't assume that, it's unreasonable. We in our discussions, in our discussions, which the Minister mentioned, presented these arguments to the Czech side, but they have their truth. Let me put it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u35	Thank you. Minister, don't get off the stand yet. It's possible that some of the questions will be addressed to you. I have a question for you. Minister, the Czechs are demanding some investment there. Can you tell me how much these demands would cost? Yeah, pretty much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Ladies and gentlemen...]] What would be the cost of fulfilling all the demands of the Czech party?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u36	Mr Marshal, in the discussions held in November and December 2020, the Czechs proposed projects with a cost of EUR 69 million. [[Millions?]] Yes. [[Not billions?]] Millions of euros. [[That's EUR 69 million.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u37	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u38	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to refer to this issue, which was already raised by Marshal Grodzki. As president of the Senate Polish-Czech Group, I was also at a meeting with the President of the Senate of the Czech Republic Miloš Vystrčil and the Czech senators. About Turów We said very little, but it was rather the Czech side that wanted to talk about these positive issues, about cooperation between Poland and the Czech Republic. And so abstractly, I regret that Marshal Grodzki asked a question and left. You can see how interested you are in this information. But I have a question. I have a question about, among other things. consultation. I understand that the negotiating position of the Polish party is covered by a secret, but I would like to ask what has been done so far. Because there is a charge against the government that here there was a conflict about the Tours, and nothing had happened before, and we know that already in September 2019 an intergovernmental cross-border consultation was held in the form of an expert meeting. Many meetings have been held on this issue, including at the level of foreign ministers and climate ministers. I would like to ask how many of these meetings were before there was a conflict about the Tours. How many of these meetings of experts and meetings at the level of ministries?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u39	Thank you very much. To whom is that a question? [[Well, as far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, it's known that he's the Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs.]] To the Foreign Minister. [[And when it comes to meetings organized by the climate ministry, it's...]] Good. Minister of Foreign Affairs, then Minister of Climate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! This is, of course, a very important issue that needs to be clearly underlined. This is what Mr Guibourgé-Chetwertyński was talking about today, signaling this issue. The discussions with the Czech party under the cross-border arrangements procedure, which were part of the adoption of environmental decisions, began in 2016. In 2019, as you rightly pointed out by the senator, they were completed. They were concluded by the signature of the protocol by the Polish party and the Czech party. This protocol was a condition for an environmental decision to be made. Without this protocol, without the conclusion of three years of Polish-Czech talks, it would simply be impossible. The fact that, in the following months, the Czech side has been expecting this agreement to be amended to cover other areas, that these demands could in principle be raised to an even higher level, is a separate issue to which we have already referred. As for the number of meetings and the details of strict conversations I will allow myself to give the floor to Minister Guibourgé-Chetwertyn in a moment. First of all, it requires that bilateral discussions have been ongoing at both expert and political level since at least 2016 and even since 2015. In 2021, the Czech party, in principle during these discussions, decided to refer the action to the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u41	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u42	As far as more detailed information is concerned, I will have to reply in writing. I'll only confirm what I said before. As the senator said, in September 2019 we signed a protocol from cross-border consultations, that was after several hours of negotiations, after exchange of very detailed substantive information and after expert research on dust, noise and water. We have set out detailed solutions to address all these issues. The Protocol was finally signed and approved by both parties' delegations as the basis for us to decide on the environmental conditions for this investment in accordance with the Union directives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u43	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This time, it will not be about the brothers of the Czech Republic, but about the one-man decision of the TSUE. I think this is where you're supposed to answer from the Foreign Office. First question. Can one person decide on such an important matter, about such far-reaching economic, economic consequences for Poland, for the surrounding municipalities, for the Polish population? Did this person have the authority to issue a resolution that is in this case... which I believe is irreversible? That's the first line. Two. What would be the consequences... This is rather a question to the representative of the environmental department. What would be the result of the actual implementation of this provision, namely the immediate cessation of lignite extraction? I am not talking about the economic impact, but mainly about the safety of people and the possible disaster.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u45	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u46	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The issue raised by the senator, namely the matter of the legal basis and competence of the Court of Justice acting as a single member, in the composition of the Vice-President of the Court, is in fact extremely important because we are dealing with a case-by-case action. In the current case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, provisional measures and, above all, financial daily penalties have been applied in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty and in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice in respect of decisions terminating proceedings. Precedential character... In fact, when they tried for the first time... This was not the case, but such reasoning was presented, i.e. that such penalties may also be imposed in relation to provisional measures. In the case of the Białowieża Forest. The second such situation took place in the case of the "Turowa' case. In this case Poland is therefore a subject of precedent and it is not a question of assessment or a question that may be acceptable today. or negative. Of course, everyone has the right to their opinion. It's just a fact. There have been no other cases of this kind against any other country so far. The position of the Republic of Poland in this matter is clear, repeated consistently: we are dealing with an action which has no precedent and which in the opinion of the Republic of Poland also does not have a legal basis in the treaties. We believe that this is an action that exceeds the powers of the Court of Justice. This legal argument is consistently raised by us and will be consistently raised to this end so that no such measures can be applied to Poland. So much in the context of the Court of Justice ruling, in the context of this precedent. On the other hand, let me cast my vote to Minister Guibourgé-Chetwertyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u47	This interim measure, which has been defined by the Court, could potentially have had an unthinkable and radical impact. Minister Grandpa has talked a little bit about these effects in his presentation, but I will allow myself to highlight the most important issues that we have identified by examining this resolution. Firstly, this is of course a huge problem for the functioning of our energy system. This is a block, which is very significant in our energy system and also locally, in this region, it is also a block, which is located on the border of our energy system, and it is very important for the proper functioning of electricity flows between networks, between Polish and Czech networks and between Polish and German networks. So this is a block, which is also important for the functioning of the electrical system actually throughout Europe. This is all the more important because for other reasons, independent, other capabilities available in the system do not function fully either, they do not function as we expected. Thus, for this reason, possibly excluding this block would dramatically worsen the indicators, all the safety indicators of the electrical system. Secondly, this would have dramatic consequences in the area of heating. This block is a source of heat for district heating in Bogatynia. Minister Grandpa mentioned this in his presentation. It's obvious, I don't think I have to explain to anyone how important heating in our country is in winter. Maybe it's not so clear to everyone in Europe, because winter conditions vary from country to country, but I think it's clear to us in this room. Czechs indicate the nature of the risks involved, namely environmental risks. Without proper preparation, without adequate security... Perhaps Minister Grandpa would better explain these geological issues. Anyway, it's a matter of mine safety. We need to reduce the risk of landslides and to that end properly profile the cliff in this mine. Of course, material is needed for this, so mining is required to have material to secure these slopes. And all these are, of course, risks that could materialize if they actually were to be implemented. It's literal, from day to day. And these are the points, the elements that we raised in our argument by writing to the Court, to which the Court replied that, in its understanding, these are not new circumstances. We, in turn, understand that the Court is fully aware that the effective implementation of this provision is a very long-term process and would require adequate safeguards, proper implementation of environmental procedures, environmental impact assessment, in order to ensure that these risks do not materialise.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u48	Thank you. Senator Bogusława Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u49	I have three questions. The first one's like this. This is an area where 13 mines are located, 11 of which are Czech and 1 mine is Polish. Is it just our mine in Turów that poses any environmental or climatic threat? The second question is this. What is the overproduction of Czech mines and would Poland become a market after the closure of Turowa and if so, in what percentage? And the third question. In 1997 it was called. The flood of the millennium, most of Poland was flooded at that time. There was information that the flooding of this huge area of Poland was related to the closure there in the Czech Republic. Did Poland speak to the Czech Republic about any explanations or compensations, since such information was? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u50	Thank you very much. Then who was the minister addressed to? [[To the Minister of Climate.]] To the Minister of Climate. Looks like the problem was opening up there, not closing up... Answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u51	The senator rightly noticed, indeed, most of the mines in this region, because as many as 11 have Czech owners. The mine in Turów is one of the smallest mines in the region. Well, any mining activity has some environmental impact that we need to limit by introducing appropriate measures. Minister Dziadzio here referred to those cases which are known to us, more severe, affecting Polish border towns. It goes on for example. about the municipality of Gubin near the German mine. These are the cases that we're analyzing regarding the effects on the depressive funnel in this area. As to the possibility of using Poland as a market, I do not know whether it was electricity or coal. In the case of electricity, this is what I'm going to say. Its transmission over longer distances is, of course, possible. At this point, since August actually, Poland is consistently an exporter of energy. So if it turned out that there would be no production in Turów, our neighbours would have problems accessing electricity, because we would not be able to export as much energy as we are currently exporting. But of course that's changing, and sometimes we're an importer of electricity. Then the absence of this block in our electricity system would have potentially very significant consequences for our energy system and for the European system. As far as brown coal is concerned, brown coal is a raw material that is generally not transported over long distances. Its caloricity is much less than hard coal, so the cost-effectiveness of such transport... Even logistics itself is very difficult. In the context of this analysis of the Court's order, we have determined that if we wanted to supply this block with other raw materials, we would need 1,000 trucks. daily to transport such amounts of coal just to Turov. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And that's why... I say 1,000 trucks a day... Those of you who are from this region know exactly what the roads in this area look like. Well, it wouldn't be real, it would require at least a significant investment in transport infrastructure to make it possible. There is a second problem with the use of other coal, a technical problem with the installation itself. The installation was designed to burn this particular carbon that is on site. Each brown coal is slightly different, has its parameters, one is a little more moist, another has a little more dust, a little more sulphur. In order to limit the impact of this activity on... reduce emissions, whether it's sulphur or dust to air, it must be adapted to the pollutants in this local resource. So if we change fuel, we'd also have to adapt this installation so that it can work safely and reduce air pollution all the time. As for the last question about compensation in the context of... I don't have that kind of information. I can check and possibly reply in writing later.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u52	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The question will be addressed to Minister Jabłoński, because I am happy with such philosophy to speak about facts as you asked the Minister. How will Poland pay penalties resulting from the decisions of the TSUE? In the case of Turova, this is 500 thousand euros a day, yesterday's penalty is 1 million a day. At the current rate, this is PLN 6 million 900 thousand per day and PLN 207 million per month. And I'd like to ask... In the interest of Polish foreign policy, while we are talking about it, it is of course to maintain good relations with the Czech Republic. I'm glad... I have no doubt that it is also in Polish interest to maintain good relations with the European Union and its institutions. So how will Poland pay these penalties? But I'm asking for a different answer than not paying them. If we do not pay them by transfer, which is directly from the budget, we will first be called upon to pay by the European Commission, and after the deadline the European Commission may decide from which to deduct these sums, for example. from subsidies to farmers. Will the only explanation of the Polish government then be that these deductions are unprecedented and exceed the powers of the European institutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u54	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! It's a little strange that I'm getting a question from the senator, and then I hear during your speech: just don't answer in a specific way, because I won't like that answer. I think the debate is not about the questioner immediately suggesting which is the right answer and which is not. If that's the case, if the senator knows what the right answer is, then basically just asking that question is missing the point. The answer to this question has already been partially answered. Poland consistently considers that, in order to impose financial penalties, whether in respect of a temporary measure concerning the mine, or to a different extent, which goes beyond the topic of today's discussion, but since the senator has raised this issue, I will also refer to the judicial system, which is, as I recall, the competence of the Member States of the European Union, rather than the competence conferred on them in accordance with Article. 4... [[But that's not what I asked, Minister.]] I'd be grateful if you'd excuse me, it's accepted. If the senator doesn't interrupt me. If we are talking about facts, the facts have been presented to you in very detail today, above all in the first part by Minister Grandpa. During his speech, there were various kinds of shouts of discontent. I think that interrupting this statement is the best indication of the approach to facts. We stand in the position that if... [[Voice from the hall: Your role is not to instruct us.]] And your role, Senator, is not to interrupt me when I speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u56	Minister, don't argue with the courtroom and don't determine what question the senator is going to ask. Answer as much as you can, or whatever you want. Don't argue with the O.R. [[But this room will argue with the Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u57	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Let me point out that I'm not the one who started the argument with the O.R., it's the room that interrupts my speech. Continuing with the answer to the senator's question, I'm going to say that the Court of Justice's ruling can be accepted. Once again, I'm simplifying to some extent. 2 approaches. Such an approach can be adopted: if the Court of Justice of the European Union makes a decision, then whether it has legal grounds or not, it must simply be implemented. And we have heard such statements that, in connection with the temporary measure, the mine should simply be closed. Such statements also fell from the mouth of Polish politicians. I hope that after today's meeting and after today's very detailed presentation of the facts on this subject by ministers from the Ministry of Climate and Environment, such fantasies that the closure of this mine would be real in general and that it could be compatible with the energy security of Poland, as well as with social security in that region, will forever disappear from the public debate, regardless of which side of the political stage we are on. Because it would simply be an act against Poland. It is in Poland's interest to use existing legal means. And if we think And that's what we all think. . that the measures which are applied by the Court of Justice exceed its competence and are without a legal basis, we will take appropriate legal measures by requesting that they be repealed, amended or used by other legal means which we also enjoy as sovereign state under international constitutions and agreements. As to the senator's question about the source, about the origins of the various parts of the budget, it is not the responsibility of the foreign minister to refer to these questions about the budgetary parts, so I think that this question should be addressed to the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u58	Thank you. Senator Marek Borowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u59	I have a question for you, Minister Jablonski. I'm asking him not to be nervous. Although these negotiations are, well, confidential, secret, but so gradually we learn a little bit about them. It was written in the press that the Minister admitted it. That a certain bone of discord is the possibility or not being able to terminate the contract. I'd like to know why... I mean, what is the nature of this agreement that the Polish party wants to guarantee itself the opportunity to terminate it? If the contract is based on e.g. in order to pass on certain measures, hollow out some wells, do Some kind of firewall, then it has to be done and the deal's over. I understand there's some ongoing expenses there. It is difficult for me to say what the Polish party wants to be able to terminate the agreement. That's why I'd like to ask you what's going on here. And second question. The Minister mentioned some protocol to the 2019 agreement. What's that protocol? 'Cause I don't think he's classified 'cause he's been setting up environmental issues, and so on.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u60	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I'm not nervous at all. I inform you, I present the facts as the circumstances require. To answer your question, we are obviously dealing with a situation where some of the information has already reached the public. To some extent, they are true. As regards the individual provisions of the contract At this stage, however, the assessment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would still not be appropriate to disclose them. I can refer to this issue, which in fact has become a part of the dispute. In practice, international agreements are based on the principle that any contract which imposes various obligations on the parties may be concluded either for a limited period or for an indefinite period. But if such obligations actually exist and these are obligations related to potential risks to countries, risks of exposure to negative consequences, if, for example. The other party abused this agreement, then it is natural practice in international agreements that the parties guarantee themselves the possibility to terminate the agreement. As an example... He was summoned earlier, but I think he's quite significant and worth recalling again. In Polish international practice concerning contracts of this kind, an example of which there is no notice clause, which raises many problems, is the agreement concerning the Jamal pipeline. This agreement was, of course, concluded in a completely different time, in a completely different way. But I think that also these other times and different natures show why today the responsible negotiator of the Polish side, as well as the Czech side and any other country, does not agree to concluding agreements from which there is no way out in emergency situations. The agreement is concluded in accordance with these negotiations and is intended to cover the entire period of mining activity, so we are talking here about a period of several decades. You can't predict what's gonna happen in the '30s, the '20s. You can't predict what's gonna happen next year. It is not known what governments will be in Poland, what governments will be in the Czech Republic, whether some parties will abuse these contractual provisions, e.g. to file further complaints against Poland. The Responsible Negotiator must take this into account. Therefore, this issue was important from the point of view of Poland. And that's why she was raised in this case. As for the specific details and specific provisions of the agreement, as I said, we cannot speak at this stage. The second question... If you remind me because... [[Voice from the room: Minutes.]] Protocol. I propose that the climate ministry indicate exactly what this is all about.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u62	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u63	This is a protocol from a cross-border consultation. It was concluded in September 2019. Of course, I'm not gonna quote the whole thing out of my head, but to illustrate what action these are... Well, that's for example. the construction of the filter screen that Minister Grandpa spoke of. There are also certain remedial measures to reduce dust emissions from conveyors used in the mine, whether by spraying with water or by covering these conveyors. It's this kind of thing. There are also activities concerning monitoring of the various levels of pollution and compliance with noise standards. Such records are contained in this protocol and relate to all potential environmental problems that may arise from mining activities in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u64	Thank you very much, Minister. And I ask you to ask Senator Aleksander Pociej's questions. It's remote. Senator Comfort!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u65	Yes, sir. I am, I am, Mr. Marshal. [[You're welcome.]] Thank you very much. Right at the beginning, I would like to rescue Minister Guibourgé from answering later Senator Orzechowska's question about the flood. In 1997, we were simply not in the European Union and the EUJEU could not comment on such matters. Minister Jabłoński said that the judgments concerning the Białowieża Forest and the Turowa Forest were precedents. The first question: if so, why did we execute the judgment concerning the Białowieża Forest? Now that we're questioning the way in which we decide about the Tours... We have warned the Polish government about the rule of law and the Disciplinary Chamber for a long time and we have been told that everything will be okay. We've got another ruling that's gonna smash us up and punish us. I listened to a lot of arguments, and she even listened to me. Although I do not know coal, unlike the rule of law At first glance, he convinces. In this context, I would like to ask a question. In that case, if we had such arguments, first of all who represented us in this dispute. Because it's like I don't know. To have evidence that you weren't driving and to be convicted of being drunk caused an accident. Because these arguments on our side are so strong. So either we had representatives who had no knowledge of crafts, or the Czech arguments were stronger. So I'd like to know, first of all, who represented us, second of all, what were the arguments on the part of the TSUE, why he took such a decision, not another one. And I would also like to know if anyone, apart from the Polish Government, is questioning such a composition of the issuing rulings in the TSUE. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u66	Thank you. Minister of Foreign Affairs, I understand?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Some of the senator's questions have, as I understand them, a personal character: who personally participated, who was a representative of Poland before the Court of Justice. In this respect, I will allow myself to refer this question to the written answer. The Minister responsible here is the Minister for European Union Affairs. And I think such a detailed answer will be given. On the other hand, as regards the arguments put forward in the judgment of the Court of Justice, it is apparent. The reasons for the decision shall be made public. I see no reason to repeat what is publicly available. We disagree with this position. We consistently uphold our position and will continue to use our legal resources to fight against this precedent, as I said, approach, with the precedent line of case law by means of law. I am talking not only about procedural measures, procedural measures before the Court of Justice, but also about other measures available to us. That's as far as I can actually relate to it. The position may, of course, be the subject of polemics, procedural polemics, political polemics, who were right about this. I think that everyone has to assess for themselves whether Poland should close the mine after a 1-person ruling of the Court of Justice. Everyone must also assess for themselves the consequences of such a position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u68	Thank you. Senator Alexander Swede, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u69	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister and here I am addressing Minister Jablonski I would like to ask about these consequences. Because it's that closing the mine in Turów this is a threat to the Polish energy system, we know that, but I would like to ask about the economic consequences. If the Minister or the representatives of the climate ministry do not have any detailed information, I will ask for written information. I would like to ask how many employees, how many colleagues will lose their jobs in the mine in Turów, how many suppliers and subcontractors will lose their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u70	Yeah, yeah... To which minister do you ask the question? Minister Jablonski, right? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński: I heard that to me.]] This is a request for an answer, in writing, right? [[I mean, if there's no such data, of course I'm going to ask for a written reply, and if there are, which ministry... that's depending on where the data is.]] Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u71	Indeed, Mr. Marshall, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, this is an extremely important issue. To be precise, we will, of course, present these data in writing. And what you can say without any doubt is that the mine in Turów, the power plant and related to these very large entities other companies that operate there as suppliers, as service providers, are the main employers in the region. Thus, the social consequences of closing these companies would be enormous. I am not even talking about the consequences of energy security, heating safety. So, of course, this kind of situation would have extremely serious consequences for the whole region.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u72	Thank you, Minister. Senator Zdzisław Pupa is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u73	Senator Bierecki in his question as if he had outlined, you can say, the political background which is in the Czech Republic or was in the Czech Republic. I have these, you can say... I have that remark, and I have a question. Namely, it seems that we in bilateral relations, bilateral relations between countries, including with the Czech Republic, are trying to apply a very noble policy, even a policy of love, we are doing everything to make these relations good, warm, to be kind. But we stop thinking in terms of business. Well, the other side clearly looks at it all in terms of business. We're talking about Turov today. And Minister Guibourgé-Chetwertyński also pointed out that... he said that this power plant is needed not only for us, but for the Czechs, it is necessary for Germany, because they import practically electricity from us. And we keep coming out, you can say, with a heart on our hands, which should somehow find recognition on the Czech side. Unfortunately, this applies not only to the Turova case but also to the agri-food market. I met with processors who say what they hear when they contact the Czech Republic: we have mechanisms that will do everything to prevent your goods from going to the Czech market. Here, Minister, there is no such policy of kindness, love, understanding, noble intentions towards a partner, which is Poland, but is a policy of pure business. I have this question: what arguments... these arguments presented by Minister Dziadzio, Minister Guibourgé-Chetwertyński, have come to me. These are the arguments that clearly show that we are not a threat to the Czech Republic, this power plant is no threat, all the more so because we have one power plant and they have a few. Now, here's the question: what arguments... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]] [[Mr. Senator, please stop...]] I ask: what arguments... [[...because you've been asking that question for five minutes.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal is tougher... [[Joy in the Chamber]] What arguments was followed by the TSUE, since it did not take into account the arguments put forward by our ministry, by you as competent persons to present arguments which argue in a clear and clear way the interests of Poland, or, in fact, it is possible to say, the common interest of 3 countries: Germany, the Czech Republic and Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u74	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister Jabłoński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The question of what arguments the Court of Justice is making is, in fact, that fullest answer has already been given in this very laconic justification of the order. The justification for the provision ignores the essential part of the facts; it does not refer to them at all. I think it also shows how far apart from reality, including these negative economic and social consequences, this is both a safeguard provision and a provision on daily penalties. Here we are dealing with a situation, again bringing this matter to the ground of bilateral relations, where each of the two countries has a range of cases in which it disagrees with the other. These issues are sometimes more important, sometimes less important, there was talk of territorial debt, there was a very important issue of food, the issue of agri-food products. These disputes are occasionally erupting, including during the last election campaign, before the elections to the Czech Parliament, this matter has once again been revealed or underlined in the Czech media, probably also as a political argument in this ongoing campaign. We are in such a situation today that... in the Czech Republic in a moment, within two weeks, there will probably be a new government. A new government that will be made up of other parties. From parties that have a different approach and which from the point of view of Czech politics will certainly implement At least I assume that every responsible politician follows this. The Czech interest. The role of Poland is to talk to our partners, also in those matters with which we disagree with them, so that this realization of Czech interests and the realization of Polish interests does not lead to conflicts between our countries. We hope that such cooperation, based on a good neighbourly approach, on goodwill and mutual trust, will be possible with the new government. There is no doubt that you should have any delusions that these matters will disappear, that everything will be settled immediately, and it will be settled 100%. In a way we want it to be. Well, with each country, it's just that sometimes there are disputes. But I can assure you, on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on behalf of the government, that these opportunities which open up with the creation of a new government in the Czech Republic will be used to the best advantage possible for Poland, so that these Polish interests can be realised and in these difficult issues with Czech partners to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u76	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u77	Me again with a question for Minister Jablonski. I'm gonna dig into this deal. I understand that Poland is afraid that once it has done its job, the Czechs will continue to demand it and, in turn, the Czechs fear that Poland will not want to fulfil its obligations under some pretext and will declare a contract. Is it possible, in such a situation, to establish a joint arbitration body, e.g. European? So that we can set up a deal for someone in such conflicting situations to simply decide, and then close these negotiations. That's the first question. And the other one... As far as I'm concerned, the climate ministry has made a decision on the operation of this mine by about two thousand twentieth... [[Voice from O.R.:...sixth.]] Yeah, 2026 or something. And then someone, but probably the lower one, made a decision to operate it by 2044. And it seems that the second decision caused outrage to the Czechs because they felt that something had not been done in this situation. I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u78	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! This proposal, this idea that the senator was talking about, is of course not new and is not unknown in international practice, making various types of provisions for arbitration courts exists. And I assure you that this kind of opportunity to get out of a variety of disputes is also the subject of discussion. As regards the details in view of the good of the negotiations, I cannot yet speak because the parties did not finally agree on the shape of the agreement. We, on the other hand, assume And I want to stress that very much too. That bilateral matters between countries, which are very close neighbours, friends, allies within the Visegrad Group, within the Tri-mar, the European Union, NATO, should first be dealt with through bilateral talks, without giving them to arbitration, without being evaluated by a third party, whether within the European Union or within arbitration bodies, because they are simply of this kind. Actions are always detrimental to bilateral relations. This is an essential element of the philosophy that we follow. And we are also following this philosophy by negotiating in a bilateral form. As regards the issue of concessions, its extension, the details, which concession, which decision here was of what importance, on which it was based, I will allow myself to cast my vote to Minister Grandpa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator, To answer the question, I would like to clarify this a little bit. First, the concession authority extended the concession which had been issued to PGE since 1994. It was a different company before, but PGE took over the rights after it. The licence was issued, extended at the applicant's request, which is, as I said, PGE. The first version of this proposal was formulated in such a way as to extend the concession decision until 2026. This decision was extended at the request of the trader. It became the subject of a dispute on the Czech side, because the Czechs questioned the issue, the extension of this decision as a decision which was taken without environmental conditions. That's not true. In the meantime, PGE applied to the concession body for an extension, for a decision to be issued in the longer term, i.e. until 2044, in accordance with the environmental decision. Because the environmental decision was issued until 2044. Consequently, the licensing authority, being bound by the undertaking's request, after examining the documents, considered that such a decision could be taken, that it was lawful, in accordance with the law and in accordance with the conditions of the environmental decision. This may raise opposition, perhaps some controversy on the Czech side, but from the point of view of our law, European law, it is lawful. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u81	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u82	Exactly. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, I think we got to the point. So after the first concession, which was 2026, the Czechs have already challenged it. The Minister claims it was unfounded. I'm not in. I'm not going in because I don't know. But the fact is, the Czechs questioned her. And at that point, instead of talking to them about this concession and the longer concession, by 2044, they were left completely on the sidelines and issued this concession until 2044.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u83	In answer to this question, I will say that the Czechs were constantly informed about the decisions of the concession body, i.e. they were informed because they demanded such information, about the processes taking place in the concession body. They had that information. We don't see any conflict with what... The Czechs were convinced from the beginning and had such knowledge that PGE would seek a concession until 2044. This was the first official information, which was generally known and the Czech side, and the Polish side. So I don't see any problems here. [[Then we differ in our views. Thank you.]] Yes. And the Minister... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u84	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u85	I would like to complete the answer of Minister Grandpa to Senator Borowski's question. The time when we issued this decision extending the concession until 2044 was the moment when the Czechs refused to meet with us, between February and May the Czechs refused to meet with us. We even had an appointment at the level of Minister Kurtyka with Minister Brabec, who was cancelled by the Czech side on the eve. Thus, despite numerous requests, the Czechs consistently refused to meet us between February and May.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u86	Thank you, Minister. Minister Chetwertyński replied. Now, Senator Alexander Comfort. It's remote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Comfort. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u87	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal, it's been a while before my microphone was turned on. I have a question for you, Minister Jablonski, for the second time. Many times you smuggled the minister and smuggled such a suggestion that the opposition does not care about the interests of Poland. I sensed it in those statements. I would like to assure you that nothing is more wrong. We are simply wondering who should be charged with misconduct in the future. I would like the Polish government to win this case, and I am trying to understand who might have lost and how to lose something as obvious as you assure us here. Listening to these arguments, I actually come to the conclusion that Poland is right. Then who's responsible for losing? I'm gonna have to repeat my question, which you haven't answered. The Minister's main thesis in calling into question the decision in the case of Mr Turova, you yourself spoke about this, concerning this composition, which, according to what you said, was inadequate to settle the case. Once again I ask: since it was the same in the case of the Białowieża Forest, you also said it, why did Poland execute this judgment in the case of the Białowieża Forest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u88	Thank you, Senator. Minister, you're welcome. Questions for Minister Jablonski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I do not know how to treat this question, which is partly a question, and partly a form of announcement of accusations. I would not like to enter into such a discussion. I, in turn, have heard such demands that representatives of the opposition should make various accusations. In my opinion, this is no place for this kind of discussion unless the senators agree otherwise. I wouldn't want to take part in that kind of exchange... At least not at this stage. I have the impression that the facts we've presented show pretty well what the picture of this case looks like. The senator points out that he is clearly convinced that Poland is right about this, the earlier statements of several other senators suggested that not quite... Therefore, I think that there is such a suggestion that sometimes certain statements that appear in the public sphere, e.g. that the mine should be closed And these were, that's the fact. It's just that they shouldn't have happened without getting to know the reality of the case. As for the Białowieża Forest issue, on the issue of the case, I draw attention to one, quite essential thing. That provision of precedent did not concern, first, the imposition of financial penalties. This possibility was signalled, but these penalties were not yet imposed on Poland. Secondly, the case was settled by the Court as a multi-member. Today we are dealing with a situation which is increasingly emerging in recent years where, in cases which are absolutely outside the limits of the literal wording of the Treaties and of the Rules of Procedure before the Court of Justice, the provisions are issued on a one-man basis and are provisions from which there is no formal appeal, but merely a request for a review of the case and for the repeal of that measure. The question therefore arises as to whether this is exactly what the Member States of the European Union agreed to in the Treaties and whether the rules of procedure before the Court of Justice of the European Union reflected the wishes of the Member States of the European Union. If a person considers that he reflects, and considers that whatever the Court of Justice orders, in any composition, e.g. closure of the mine, closure of the factories, you can imagine that you ordered it to shut down the highways... If someone considers that this should always be done, then in fact there is no room for discussion. However, if someone thinks that there is a limit that no institution can cross, and that limit is the Treaty principle of granting, then it is simply necessary to talk about it. We're doing it consistently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u90	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Are there any questions? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] 'Cause I heard some noise in the gym... I would like to inform you that Minister Jabłoński has undertaken to answer in writing the questions of senators Alexander Potiej and Alexander Swede. I'm opening a discussion. And I'll ask Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. Gentlemen of Ministers, you may sit in your seats. [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm in serious trouble because I have to lie about all the untruthful things that the ministers in this speech have unfortunately fallen. And I want to go to the part that's purely substantive, because it's the one that has an important dimension for the whole thing, because we're moving in the area of law, not desire and storytelling under the title that something isn't allowed. I'm going to start very precisely with the dates of the documents... Well, the ministers don't have them, I do have them all. In 2015, from the point of view of national and European legislation, any investment which is of the nature of mining investment It is an investment that has a significant negative impact on the environment, whether open-air or deep-sea. This means that the Ministers should know this, especially when working at the Ministry of Environment and Climate. That the investor has to draw up an environmental impact report and agree with all the stakeholders it has an impact on... If this is in the country, it is only parties in the country, and if this applies to neighbouring countries, it is also with the neighbouring country. It regulates the so-called. Escheo Convention, which Poland has implemented and implemented. If there are two neighbors and one wants to build something, it will affect the other and the other has the right to complain in court, to argue in court. But the government, the wise government, now in power, and the crew, which in PGE took over the power of the presidents there, were listed as people Finally, they prepared the activities related to the environmental impact report and the Regional Environment Directorate in Wrocław in 2015 set out the conditions to be met in order to make an environmental decision. In 2019 the environmental decision shall take place prior to the adoption of the environmental decision. Because that's what the ESPOO Convention says. Minister, Ministers, I have before me this document, which you referred to, a document from the arrangements of 3 and 4 October 2019. Meeting place: Hotel Tumski, Słodowa 10, Wrocław. And I'll read a passage you didn't want to quote once. This passage says: The Czech Party has stated that it will proceed to develop and group the positions of the Czech authorities and society, which have entered the Ministry of the Environment of the Czech Republic. The position of the Czech party, together with the position of the Czech authorities and the comments of the public in this area, will be communicated to the Polish side. The Parties agreed that the above positions of the authorities and the public's comments will be taken into account when deciding on the environmental conditions of the Regional Environment Directorate in Wrocław, under which they will be decided. If you're referring to this document, then you have to be precise. And in this document you agreed to take into account the comments of the Czech party. And the Czech side sent comments. It is a pity that the Director General of Environmental Protection is not here because he is the recipient of these comments, but I understand that you deliberately did not want to invite him here, because he would have to admit every time that I was right. The Czech party sent comments, the Czech Republic's position on the project from 15 November 2019 exactly is negative, but raises a number of issues which should first be taken into account in the report... Because the report, I remind you, is prepared by an investor, which is PGE, and only then by an administrative authority, which is the Regional Environment Directorate, should But most of the cases that the Czech side has brought have not been taken into account in the environmental decision. You have allowed yourself, as a government, to send to the Czech partners, through the Directorate-General for Environmental Protection, a letter that is quite offensive in the tone I don't want to quote it any more, this letter is signed by a low-level official, but it is important in international correspondence that the general director of environmental protection doesn't understand what it is, why the Czechs bring something, why they expect something, and the environmental decision doesn't include these things. You're doing worse. I don't want to, and I don't have time to figure out what the problem of two concessions is, because in... Maybe another sentence, if you'll allow it, because it's important. Mr. Minister took a gentle ride through it again just to get past certain things. The mining and geological law in 2018 included the possibility of extending the concession once to 6 years without drawing up an environmental impact report, but And that's interesting, too. Only for mining brown coal, this does not apply to hard coal. Why is that? I don't know. Besides, I think you've even deleted it by now. And you originally obtained an extension of your license for six years. But you know that from the point of view of the process that is being carried out there, which is an additional discovery, a larger and deeper extraction, these six years are too short, so you applied for an environmental decision by 2044 and then you issued a concession... Well, PGE asked for it, yes, Minister, because the authority doesn't make a decision without a request. Minister, if you don't know that you're still filming it, just take the phone and call, and learn it right away, because it's worth knowing. I'm saying this as someone who wrote this bill, and it's worth knowing. It's really worth knowing how to come here. Minister... I'm not referring to Minister Jablonski at all because you're being extremely rude, so you're... Although in one respect, I'll be back in a minute. Because these gestures are gestures that I can afford, and you can't. You're a clerk, and we're here to question the clerks, just and exclusively. The administrative decision in the form of a concession decision was issued by the Authority, by the Regional Environment Directorate I'm gonna check it out. In 2020 and this decision two days later, you gave an immediate feasibility clause. What does this mean in terms of environmental legislation and European law? If the decision is made in the first degree authority and there is already a decision of immediate feasibility, it results in the fact that you can already dig, do basically what you want, although the challenge process has not been completed. The Parties have appealed to the Director-General for Environmental Protection and, attention, to this day there is no decision on this matter, to this day there is no decision at the level of the Director-General for Environmental Protection, although the Director-General for Environmental Protection is probably 30 or 60 days old, I can no longer remember, it is defined by law. Meanwhile, it's been two years and... [[But he analyzes, analyzes...]] Yeah, yeah, she's analyzing. But this has already been settled by this government in another part, because the European Commission said that the substance of the dispute in such cases is the lack of public access to the court. Since, at the first stage, the decision becomes final, it cannot be challenged, the second instance authority does not issue a secondary decision, and this secondary decision, like any administrative decision, is brought before the general courts, in this case the provincial administrative court, but nothing happens, and therefore the European Commission started the procedure against Poland in 2020 on this principle. The Minister of Finance, we had it in the Senate, especially this side of the hall. He wrote such a circular to all interested ministers who spend EU funds and wrote something like this: because the European Commission raises the problem of lack of access to courts when issuing decisions and imposing an immediate feasibility clause, we ask that all environmental decisions be suspended, that all investments where there are EU funds be discontinued, until Polish law is brought into line with EU law. This was done as a matter of urgency at the government's request at the beginning of this year. This matter was also the subject of the proceedings of the High House. And this also concerns this problem, because you made a decision, you did not take into account the comments of the Czech party, because you did not take these comments into account, and on the basis of the environmental decision you subsequently issued the concession, and the decision was contested to the second instance body. The Court says more or less: since you do not comply with European law in this part In other cases, we have already adapted, i.e. on the issue of EU funds We're the ones who put the punishment, the money on you. And these stories, this wall, this thing... They're all important, but not in this House. Minister, this was your job in negotiating with the Czech side, not with us. We need you to tell us why you led to this crisis. In 2015, I would remind you, WDOŚ issued the conditions under which an environmental impact report had to be drawn up and the investor obliged to do so in 2019. You met with the Czech side once, the Czech side reserved the right to use this protocol. it's clearly written, I just read it She made comments and you did not take these comments into account in the environmental decision and two days later you imposed an immediate feasibility clause and then started the negotiation process. But what exactly is it about? How do you conduct these negotiations? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska- Stanecka: Mr. Senator, 10 minutes.]] About what? In what mode? The procedure in the provisions of the Esau Convention is clearly defined. You guys out there... Prime Minister Morawiecki speaks in turn about the meeting with the current Prime Minister Babiš: we agreed somewhere in Brussels... Then Minister Soboń, responsible for mining, restructuring, etc., who is no longer in the ministry, says that he went to the Czech Republic and settled everything. Then another minister, whom you dismissed three days ago, Kurtyka, goes to meetings and says: now, now, is close, etc. Well, it's all a raccoon, it's a raccoon, it's ridiculous. And you come in here and show us the charts. You wanted to talk to the O.R.? You've succeeded, on this matter, Minister, you've managed to discuss the room. Except it has nothing to do with the facts. EUR 0.5 million is the responsibility of this government. The energy crisis you're leading to is the responsibility of this government. The miners, instead of going to Luxembourg, should come to the Prime Minister's office because it is the responsibility of this government, in its entirety. [[And the hail in Africa, too?]] If the government rules there, perhaps, Senator. If the truth bothers you, don't listen. I understand you've already built a thesis: bad Czechs, bad Belarusians, bad Russians, bad Germans... Everyone's angry, only the Baltic is exemplary, because this government hasn't had a fight with the Baltic yet. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] Mrs. Marshal, I'm almost done. I am so convinced that today we do not know who is negotiating with the Czech party. There is no right person, there is no minister, i.e. He's new, but we don't know if he's doing it. We are hearing some secret declarations, and the European Convention and Law are clear on this issue. You have broken this law and have full responsibility for what is happening in Poland today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u92	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Hibner, Jolanta Hibner. Excuse me, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are dealing with a brown coal mine and a power plant in Turów. Why? Because Poland received a penalty of EUR 500 000 for every day after the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. To this day, penalties are estimated at EUR 18 million. I would like to say to reassure the Minister, one of the ministers, that I am feeding on information that was not classified in the Seym of the previous term of office, as I was then an MEP. Maybe a little chronology. The brown coal concession in Turów was valid until 2020. Earlier, as my colleague mentioned, before the end of the concession, the government started, in accordance with European law, work on environmental impact assessment. During that time, we were informed of triangular meetings of the government with representatives of the Czech Republic and Germany, the arrangements were common and it was the signing of the preliminary memorandum of understanding in the autumn of 2019. I will present only four points, which I believe are the most important in this protocol and which were raised by the Czech side. Firstly, the Czechs propose the construction of a protective wall of 1.1 km long and 20 m high. Next: building alternative water sources for border areas where this water is missing. Next: the establishment of an intergovernmental commission on an ongoing monitoring of the threat from the working mine in the field of dust, noise. In addition, municipalities from border areas were to receive financial support. Those were preliminary findings. It seemed that the proposed solutions would minimise the impact of the mine on border areas in the Czech Republic. But it starts in 2020 and the stairs begin. On the basis of a limited environmental impact assessment, without an environmental report, the Ministry of Climate and Environment applies for a concession for a period of 6 years, i.e. for a period of time, so to speak. Later, he asks for an extension of the mine's operation until 2024. The Directorate-General for Environment gives a positive opinion on the concession and further exploitation. A decision shall be made. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, The Czechs call on us to enter into negotiations, to sign commitments by the Polish party, to act in this regard. It starts December 2020. Brussels points out that Poland is mining coal in Turów on the basis of concessions and therefore violates EU law because the previous conditions were not met. As my colleague has said, these conditions were not a basic requirement, which is in our EU legislation. Czechs warn Poland that they will file a complaint with the Court of Justice. Government response: disregard for the Czech side. At the beginning of 2021, Czechs apply to the Court for the cessation of mining. During this time, at the European Summit, the Prime Minister announces victory and agreement with the Czech Republic and that the Czechs will withdraw the complaint from the Court. The Czech Government says it's a joke, absolutely denying it. The Czech Prime Minister denies this information, demonstrating the lie and evil will of the Polish government. The Court of Justice then gives judgment on 21 May 2021, i.e. this year, imposing a fine of EUR 500 000 for each day of further operation of the mine. This is over PLN 2 million today. The Polish Government sets out the tactics that Marshal Witek presents even publicly, i.e. waiting out, waiting until the end of the elections in the Czech Republic. During this time negotiations are ongoing with the Czech Government. On behalf of the Polish Government, the present Minister of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński and Mr Michał Kurtyka negotiate here. Negotiations are discontinued on 1 October of this year. All basic arrangements which were accepted by the parties shall be blurry. Well, they're gone and they're gone. The point of dispute still exists, is inconclusive. The Czechs are calling us to talk again. The elections are over, but the ministers of the old Czech government are authorized to continue their talks with Poland. And here, ladies and gentlemen, politics is at stake. Who's starting to activate? The unionists of the NSZZ (Solidarity) come to Luxembourg and manifest themselves before the Court against the judgment in the case of the mine (Turów). It's October 22nd. At the same time, there is an extraordinary meeting of the European Council, on which one of the leading topics, I ask you, is the energy crisis. What did we find out yesterday? The European Commission urgently requested from the Polish government evidence of the cessation of coal mining in the mine, namely the implementation of the judgment of the TSUE. The crisis continues to this day. Poland is punished. Maybe that's all I'm gonna say. Now we have to sum up. Change of Minister of Climate and Environment. The position includes a new minister. I take it the other guy didn't work out. The Prime Minister confirms that there will be no closure of the mine, but it gives nothing in return. Poland has committed itself to a reduction - It's confirmed. ♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh, CO2 emissions by 2030 Confirmed. And what, ladies and gentlemen? Polish diplomat failed on the whole line. And if we are also informed that one of the Vice-Ministers of Foreign Affairs insults the Czech Minister of Foreign Affairs... 'Cause he's important, he's got a lot to say, and he's got all the kindness... The amount of the penalties for the mines of the windmills is not suspended. Ladies and gentlemen, the number of employees in the mine and power plant is about 5.5 thousand, one of the ministers showed. The amount of penalties would cover employment in three mines. Are we aware of this? By 30 September Poland received revenue in the budget of PLN 17 billion 300 million from the sale of CO2 allowances. Question: why can't this money solve the crisis around Turova? Why can we not start real action to move away from coal, from coal production, to wind farms, scattered efficient sources and other technologies already known in the world? Why are negotiating people who can't? That is a fundamental question. The next question is: what are the solutions proposed by the government in the case of Turova? And, finally, the reflection after yesterday's vote. We build, ladies and gentlemen, dams, build walls at borders, build others, so to speak, devices to stop people, but it would be better to build technological barriers that are needed in those places that we all point to and even agree on. I'm sure the money is needed for that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u94	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Today's information from the President of the Council of Ministers concerned the situation arising after the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the mines of the "Tours" and I, as Dolnoślązaczka, would like to talk about what happened... or rather about what should have happened and what did not happen in Lower Silesia before the ruling of the Court of Justice. I want to compare it and show you. 'Cause maybe you don't all know that. As in Lower Silesia, in 2 different districts, regions, these challenges of the future were being prepared. And I'm going to show you this on the example of the Fair Transformation Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take, for example, Municipalities from the south of Lower Silesia, among others. My hometown, that's Wałbrzych. The leader of these 52 municipalities, who wanted to raise funds from the Fair Transformation Fund, was the president of the city of Wałbrzych, Dr. Roman Szelemej. These local governments knew a few years ago what challenges we would all face. Let me just remind you that this part of Lower Silesia is a mineland. Let me put it this way: there has been absolutely great determination, a consequence. There have been many meetings, conferences, convinced members of the European Commission, in which the former Prime Minister, Mr Jerzy Buzek, supported us very strongly. And it turned out that even after 25 years since the closure of mines, this part of the subregion of Wałbrzych was given the opportunity to reach for this money. Ladies and gentlemen, this paved the way for the transfer of more than PLN 2.5 billion to 52 municipalities of our sub-region. They had predicted this for years, knew that they had to reach for the money to revitalize industrial areas, municipal resources, and also think about the development of spas and tourist areas. And let me remind you that they had very little chance because the mines in our region were closed over 25 years ago. And there's another part of our region. I am thinking here of the district of Zgorzelecki and the local authorities centered around the mine. Exactly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of this because I reached the documents from which it appears that the local authorities of Zgorzelecki knew that they would not be able to handle this problem themselves, they knew that they needed the support of the government and support of the Marshal's office. Let me just remind you that this office is headed by the Coalition of Law and Justice with Unbridled Local Governmenters. These local authorities alarmed, pointed out a few years ago, said that they were aware of these problems and expected to create convenient conditions for changes in mining regions. They said to remember the need to open up to new development opportunities through the transformation of the energy system. They also thought about eco-innovation, were aware, and asked to go in this direction to take care of clean air and the environment together. And they've been alerting for a long time, only their alarms have come out on nothing. And what do we have in this part of Lower Silesia today? Well, we have a crisis funded by the lack of support from the rulers, as well as the Marshal's Office of Lower Silesia. Totally neglected climate policy and energy transformation of this part of the region. After all, ladies and gentlemen, the consequence of this is, of course, penalties which are charged. And the amount of these penalties could be used to improve, modernise energy infrastructure in this part of the region, for the inhabitants who live there. Ladies and gentlemen, the only action that was carried out was the issue of a concession for the mine "Turów" until 2044. And then you closed your eyes like little kids, and you thought no one would notice, and it would go well. But unfortunately, this short-sightedness led to the point where someone said for us at last: stop, this can't be any longer. And then, at that point, you started thinking, well, maybe we'll do something, maybe we'll figure something out, try to negotiate, explain to all of us that we're getting close, that you're actually... we're done. Well, we're at the stage we're at. And one more thing you did after the Court of Justice of the European Union said: stop. You've made an effort, one more. It turned out that you thought that the district of Zgorzelecki might also have to take the money from the Fund for Fair Transformation. You've thought about that now that the other beneficiaries have taken further steps to make use of this fund. And I'm gonna say one more thing. You've done something... I'm saying something because we don't really know what it is. A report has been prepared, a letter that has been classified as confidential, and we do not really know again what is happening in this area, what in terms of the problems of the districts around Zgorzelec is happening in the district of Zgorzelec. Because, well, you made it a top secret document and no one has the right to read it, no one has the right to see what's in it. And time runs. And I just want to remind you that the funds from the Fair Transformation Fund will not wait forever to reach for them. And such a last conclusion, such a thought, a reflection, which after all... I mean, what is the situation in 2 different places in Lower Silesia, where, on the one hand, we are concerned about what we are going to be struggling with in a moment, looking at the future, this vision of the future and the wisdom of local governments, which had thought about it much earlier, and on the other hand, local governments, which could not cope with themselves, asked the government to support the Marshal's office, but it turned out that thinking about the future was actually focused on looking at the pillars of support, checking how they looked and what decisions could be made. And my conclusion: asking that you finally start ruling our country, so that you do not only maintain power. Because it is the safety of our citizens, but also the future, not only of our future, but also of our children, grandchildren, generations to come. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u96	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u97	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the Climate Ministry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs very warmly for the information submitted and the factual answers to the questions. And the situation with regard to the conflict with the Czech Republic concerning the mines of the "Tours' is, of course, difficult and complicated. However, I am glad that the government stands in the position of protecting the energy security of Poland. Let's remember that the electricity production in Poland. The stable operation of mines and power plants depends on the functioning of Polish houses, schools, hospitals and enterprises. Their actions affect the safety, health and life of millions of Polish citizens. The closure of the mine is an automatic closure of the power plant, which provides electricity to the houses of about 3.7 million Poles. Meanwhile, there are 9 brown coal open-cast mines, including 5 in the Czech Republic, and 4 in Germany. The TSUE allows them to operate, despite their far greater environmental impact. It is worth recalling 2 facts. Since the decision to extend the mining concession, the issue of mine expansion has been repeatedly taken at the level of foreign ministers. And I'm going to give you a few examples here. It goes on, among other things. to visit Minister Czaputowicz in Prague on 27 May 2020, to visit Minister Rau in Prague on 1 October 2020, to visit Minister Petříček in Warsaw on 12 February 2021, or to telephone conversation on the issue of the mine held by Minister Rau with Minister Petříček on 5 March 2021. During all contacts, the Czech website She has repeatedly declared her willingness to settle this issue. And the second fact we've already talked about when we ask questions. As early as September 2019, cross-border intergovernmental consultations have been completed since 2016 in the form of an expert meeting under Article. 5 Conventions on environmental impact assessments in a cross-border context, concluded with the signature of the Protocol by the Heads of Delegation of the two countries. The conclusions and findings of the protocol drawn up during intergovernmental cross-border consultations in the form of an expert meeting shall be binding, as the official positions of the parties, for the Czech Republic and the Republic of Poland. All necessary consultations and negotiations have been conducted with the Czech Republic. The protocol, which is publicly available, closed the issue of cross-border consultations. Without the protocol there would be no environmental report and without the environmental report there would be no mining concession. Nevertheless, the Czechs claim that there was no consultation. That's absurd. The Czech party agreed to the Polish proposals and signed the protocol in 2019. There was a paradox in which Poland's voluntary action for additional water protection in the Czech Republic was presented as a confirmation of the allegations. In my opinion, the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union is unprecedented and contrary to the fundamental principles of the functioning of the European Union. The measures taken are disproportionate. The decision under the interim measures to close the mine and the power plant immediately is in fact an attempt to resolve the dispute by issuing a judgment. I am pleased that the government has determined action to show that it cares about our energy security. The TSEU Decision shall be without prejudice to the obligations relating to the essential security of the Member States. Energy security is part of this area. However, I also hope, as a senator from the Polish-Czech border and president of the Senate Group of Poland, that there will be a consensus on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u98	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u99	Thank you very much, Marshal. After Senator Gawłowski's speech... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, I would very much like to ask you to come closer to the microphone.]] Can you hear me now? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Now yes.]] Thank you very much. After Senator Gawłowski's speech, I take back what I said, that it is possible that the government did what it could. Like I said, I don't know much about coal, and I didn't expect you to confab like that in the face of the Senate. I know the law. Minister Jabłoński could not answer a simple question about the legal basis of questioning this decision. Pressed, he once claimed that the composition, as far as the Białowieża Forest is concerned, was one person, which is supposed to justify that it is precedent for Poland. When he got the question of why such a precedent sentence was being executed, he said that the composition was multiplayer. Well, these are not appropriate answers to the scale of the problem and to this House. So we come to the conclusion that there is no basis for the government's argument to challenge this judgment. What's left? Therefore, the main argument of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this case is a simple statement that we will not recognise the judgment because we do not. The government behaves exactly like Kargul and Pawlak: court-martial, and we have grenades. We're gonna have to, and we're gonna set the European Union on fire. This was said by the Minister: we will use political means Of course, we are talking about legal and political measures. In order to amend the decision of the TSUE. Minister, this is not a court that you can change, just as you have changed the justice system in Poland so that you can politically pressure judges. This is a statement that is so inadequate at all to this matter and to the situation in the European Union that it hurts so much. I asked the Minister to present the Czech arguments and arguments of the TSUE. I got a pretty arrogant answer to read about it on the Internet. Does the High House know why? Well, I will read what is stated in this ruling:.In particular, regarding the Polish Government's claim that the order of these measures The vice-president stated that this Member State did not support this claim with evidence. We read further: Poland did not sufficiently demonstrate that the cessation of brown coal mining in the.Turów mine would pose a real threat to its energy security. I wanted to ask you this, but I didn't get the answer to who did it, who didn't make the argument. I've read from this ruling. It wasn't a Czech judge, a judge who would judge something for the Czech Republic. That someone just blew the job. What this government has done in this case is really calling not only for vengeance to heaven, but also for settlement. The damage that has arisen here, image and financial, is beyond estimate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u100	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Lamczyk, Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to quote even more facts. The European Commission has also received an official complaint from the German side. Our Saxon neighbours, who are, as we know, the neighbours of the Turów power plant, complained because the activity of the open pit mine, the pumping of groundwater, affects the collapse of the land in the German city of Zittawa. And that's very important, too. It's not spoken of here, but it's very important. Besides, I'd like to say that... because today there were words here that the Germans also use coal. They're using it, that's true, but they're pulling out of it. And here's the data from last year, the February report last year. In 2020 Poland produced more electricity from coal than Germany for the first time in its history. And you have to take this, too. I'll take that under advisement. But the Germans are pulling out of the coal, and we're doing it right now. New discoveries, new concessions. I would like to present what it looks like in Europe. Green wins against black, but not in Poland. European energy production is growing greener. Poland wins in a sloppy high-carbon ranking, so it follows from a report that recently appeared. While in the European Union 2020, it was the first year in which renewable energy sources became the main source of energy, Poland turned out to be the first year in which our electricity was the dirtiest in Europe. Such conclusions come from the new Ember and Agora Energiewende report. Data from all 27 EU countries show that 38% of renewables were first produced in 2020 energy in Europe, and from mining fuels, 37%. The engine for change is wind energy and photovoltaics. In 2015, the amount of electricity produced under these 2 technologies doubled and in 2020 accounted for 1/5 of electricity in the European Union. At the same time, the production of coal energy fell by as much as 20%. In 2020 it came from only 11% European electricity. In Poland is ruled by black color, Poland against the background of Europe is not very green. We have 17% of renewable sources. energy, and from mining sites as much as 83%. As in the European Union, photovoltaics are the driving force behind green growth in Poland. Production of coal energy in Poland is also decreasing, but slower than in the European Union. Coal alone delivers 70% electricity in Poland. Unfortunately, the laws that refer to photovoltaics will slow down the production of renewable energy. It'll be just like the wind farm. Wind farms could produce more energy at the moment and this would have a significant impact on energy prices for Poles. But bad decisions have been made, and it is what it is. Poles will feel it all in their wallets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u102	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u103	Someone left something here. [[It's the Minister's voice.]] [[Voice from the hall: This is for presentation.]] Oh, for the presentation. It's okay, it's okay. I thought it was a wiretap. Gentlemen of Ministers! Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder what this is all about. Minister Grandpa said that the total amount of Czech claims relating to the construction of screens, various waterworks, etc., is EUR 69 million, i.e. about PLN 280 million. I thought there were billions at stake here. The security that the TSUE has made and the imposition of a penalty of EUR 0.5 million a day on 21 May... This is about EUR 15 million a month. That's about $60 million in gold. It's been like this since May. We had June, July, August, September, October, 5 months. Let's multiply... This is about PLN 300 million, and it was necessary to invest PLN 280 million in order for the Czechs to withdraw their application from the Court of Justice in Luxembourg. So I really don't understand what the calculation is here. The claim that we won't pay? Well, Ministers, the European Union will draw this from the money that is supposed to affect Poland, because we are not giving, we are not the net payer, we are the beneficiaries. that money from the European Union. So what's this all about? Is it about the fact that the Czech Republic is a smaller country, so let them stay out of our power approach, we are bigger, stronger, what the peppies will send and disturb us? Or is it about disgusting the European Union? Because it is pointed out that the European Union, the tribunal of the European Union, is responsible for this, the European Union. At the same time, of course, Czech and German investments are linked, so Germany is behind all of this. That was the message, and that's the message. That kind of message is deadly. If we want to get along with the Czechs and at the same time insult them... That's what we know. If someone insulted us, we know that talking to us would be harder. One Polish Deputy Minister, another Polish Deputy Minister, then minister and also Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki once in a while declared that the case was settled, that the Czechs agreed. After all, we saw this statement by the Prime Minister, the Polish Prime Minister. The next day, in fact immediately, was the response of the Czech Prime Minister: it is not. It's embarrassing, isn't it? This must not be done in foreign policy, in international policy. This situation, this problem is to be solved, only the government and you, ministers, should try to solve it, not spin a spiral of conflict, because in the end we will be harmed. It is better to settle this conflict sooner, which is fast, than to extend it indefinitely and say: we do not pay. One day, of course, the Union will count it off, only it will be someday, but today we do not pay and strain the muscles, and we show that we are stronger. I will not talk about the political consequences of this conflict, but it can be seen that the Visegrad Foursome has been completely shattered by this conflict. Will there be anything in this fourfold that we can do, an agreement on political action? I don't know. I have serious concerns about this. I have serious concerns about this. So call: count the costs and liabilities that we have to pay, and count how much we should invest in the Czech Republic to get out of this conflict. And don't accuse others because we didn't take into account any Czech comments, we didn't try to negotiate before. It wasn't until the punch, the penalties and the decision to close, that's when we started working. There's no way we're not gonna be neighbors with the Czech Republic, we're gonna be neighbors, no matter how this thing gets handled. But I believe that this conflict is primarily burdened by the Polish government and therefore the Polish government should find a solution as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Raphael the locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u105	Dear Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! We are in the Polish Senate. And there's a reason why I'm starting out like this, because it just so happened that in the speeches they were exposed, in my opinion, to the arguments of the Czech side and the arguments of Brussels in this dispute. We have serious international controversy, controversy in the literal sense of the word. Two versions, two deals. And in the Senate, we hear a favorable acceptance of the arguments of the party. maybe too hard, but I will use this word • anti-Polish, and the distrust of arguments presented by the Polish side. I am convinced that this happened by accident and I do not make any accusation that it represents the anti-Polish side. But look at the transcripts from this point of view, on which side we stand in this dispute. And I would like to assure you that the Polish Senate defends the Polish state, is on the side of Polish interests and that there is a trade union behind you, the solidarity of mines, other trade unions of mines, the workers of the mine, the workers of the power plant.Turów, local authorities, residents not only of the Zgorzelecki district, but also of others, because there are plenty of employees from other districts adjacent to: Lubanski, Lviv, Bolesławecki. We are counting on you, we are pleased with the competence you could see in the answers you gave here in the Senate. We support you and in my conviction, despite the impressions you may have had, this is the position of the whole Senate: we support the Polish side in this dispute and support it in the rapid conclusion of this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u106	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u107	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! First of all, I would like to thank my predecessor, Senator Rafał Silesian for these words, because unfortunately all of them, literally all of the statements of the ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of the Civic Coalition, were statements that did not support Poland, did not support Poland in this dispute with the Czech Republic. And that's a shame. I'm ashamed of you. There is no PiS, Platforms, there are no local governments, no government, there is simply Poland. If we're arguing with another country about our interests. And it is a shame that there are such senators of the Republic of Poland in the Senate who prefer to accept arguments of the Czech party. What do you want? You want to shut down the mines and power plants? You want to throw 10,000 people out on the street? You want a lack of work and a lack of electricity for several million Polish farms? Well, that's the consequence. Unless we also buy electricity from Germany. [[But keep your voice down. Keep your voice down.]] Mr. Senator, why didn't you help the Polish municipality Brody, who said the German mine was taking their water? I think it's in your constituency or your neighborhood, because I don't know exactly. Local governments complained there, in 2008 or 2009... we weren't in charge then. And you're making such an argument today, you're smart as that... It was necessary when in the Polish municipality the German mine... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, half tone down.]] Mrs. Marshal, I didn't interrupt anyone. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But a half tone of silence, that's all I ask.]] Well, then, Minister. I don't know if you were a minister at the time, but I'm sure the Civic Platform ruled the shame that some people today want to fight for Czech interests more than for Polish interests. The Senator from Wałbrzych said how good President Wałbrzych is because he even got money from the social transformation fund. What, you want the other Walbrzych in the Bogatynia? What, are we supposed to be happy for the poor people who were in Wałbrzych? We didn't get... I say "we" because I am also a senator from the district of Jelenio Góra, although the district of Zgorzelecki itself lies in the district of Senator Rafał Ślusarz. But the money from the Fair Transformation Fund is, of course, shared in so-called subregions, not powiats. We didn't get it because we don't want to shut down the mine, we don't want to have another Wałbrzych in the Zgorzelecki district. We prefer this mine to work until the deposit runs out. And these deposits will end physically in 2044. Therefore, such a decision was issued by the Climate Ministry to exploit all deposits. Especially since we gave up the new power block in May for over PLN 4 billion in Turów. And if anyone knows or doesn't know, brown coal, unlike hard coal, can't be transported at long distances, it's uneconomical and non-technological even to do it, which is why power plants are built at brown coal mines. Well, that's reality. I think Senator Gawłowski knows this relationship. The government negotiates, the government negotiates, but, ladies and gentlemen, negotiations are based on the fact that two parties must want to get along. And if we'd given up 100% Czechs, in everything, that's... Senator Gawłowski's speech was already: but on what basis does the government negotiate at all, and what does Morawiecki talk there somewhere at the top, in the clowns? I mean, if... I know whatever we negotiate, you're gonna attack it anyway, and you're gonna say it's wrong, too much, badly negotiated, etc., etc. I do not know how the negotiations between the Polish and Czech governments will end, I hope they will end well, because this conflict does not serve the Czech Republic or Poland, because the money that the Czechs could get from Poland during this conflict does not go to the Czech side either. And I hope that the new Czech government... And I know, because I have contact with local government officials and from the Czech side, and from the Polish side, that Czech self-government officials also want to get along. Are we gonna make a deal? I hope we can work this out. But it is not possible for us to shut down the power plant and the Turów mine, for social reasons, but also for strategic reasons. Because we're just gonna run out of energy. And you'll be the first to yell if Mr. Gawłowski has nothing to charge his cell phone or his iPad. And he's gonna be right about something. As long as we're in charge, we're not shutting down the mines and power plants. And this is a clear declaration of the government and a clear declaration of Polish parliamentarians. We hope that also the parliamentarians of today's opposition to the government or at least the majority of the parliamentarians of the opposition. Because some Members or Senators, as they said... well, a little sobered up and supported the government. But today in the Senate, you couldn't hear it. Of course there will always be disputes at the border and we did not expect, i.e. we as Poland did not expect it to be such an element, and not good, if the neighbouring disputes between two countries are to be settled by Brussels. And for the record, Senator Hibner has said so much half-truths in her short speech, doesn't she just have to be 20 minutes, that's all... [[The government's transmission.]] ...is to straighten things out. Ma'am, there is no possibility today to replace the plant with windmills or photovoltaics in the short term. Ask your colleague, who's sitting next to you, and you can tell us what the volume of energy production is. Besides, we're talking about distributed energy, and there's no such energy storage, and in general, people on an industrial scale aren't producing it yet. The only stable energy source is coal, gas, atom. And those countries that moved away from coal and put on gas, for example. Italy, Spain, Portugal, today they cry and pay Putin because Putin screwed up the chicken a little bit and suddenly the prices skyrocketed. We don't want to go in there. We have today, at these rising energy prices... Of course energy prices are rising because today more than half of the energy prices are CO2 charges, certification fees, from which the European Commission probably made a security two years ago. Investment funds came in to raise prices. [[And where does the money go?]] Please? [[And where does the money go? I'll help you with the state budget. Polish.]] Mr. Senator, just that you're aware of the kind of energy they sell to companies and we can't subsidize companies? You should be... [[But Poles...]] You should know that as a former minister. We have Brussels, we have the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and we have European law which restricts us in this regard. The only institution thanks to which we still have some security guarantee for the time being is the Energy Regulatory Office, because for some groups we can, so to speak, still regulate. And some experts say take out the URE. Well, then we'd only have an increase in the price of electricity, at 200%, at 300%. I can tell you briefly, clearly: we will defend the power plant and the mines. We're gonna want to make a deal with the Czechs on fair terms. I hope that with the new government... Well, we are aware of this type, that as in Poland the government changes into one, the other, and perhaps another... Well, now's not the best time to negotiate. At the same time, let us remember that we have not lost any process in the TSUE about the Tours. For now, it's the insurance of one judge who's retired now, and she didn't like us very much, because another... [[Who likes you?]] You know, it's not about whether he likes me or doesn't like me, it's about Poland, Mr. Senator. This is about Poland. [[You used the phrase "us" you didn't like.]] Well, she didn't like us as Poland. Not to me, because that woman probably doesn't know me. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Everyone wonders how one judge can issue security, the first in the history of the TSUE, concerning the closure of power plants and mines. Abstracting from the fact that even if you were theoretically willing to execute this judgment... it's a guarantee, because it's not a sentence, I don't know when the sentence will be... Let us remember that there is not even a judgment at first instance yet, and then we can appeal to the Grand Chamber at second instance. For now, we're talking security. We're talking about security, and as far as I know, the government has now brought it to another vice-president, because this lady has finally retired, fortunately... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time.]] That's it, that's the last sentence. So that we may be able to undo it. And as for the sentence, we haven't lost yet with the Czechs. That's probably a long way to go with the Court's work. Your marshal has successfully knocked me out of my rhythm. Thank you. I hope that you will join us in defending the power plant and the mines of the town, in the interest of Poland, in the interests of those living there. This is strategic for our country: winning this fight so that this power plant and mine can produce electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u108	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! We're dealing with three intere... inter... stakeholders... [[Voice from the room: Okay!]] Good. These are the Polish state, a private entrepreneur from the Czech Republic. I am clearly saying that this is not a Czech country, although it is acting on behalf of this private trader. and the TSUE. Well, for now, at least you've formally spoken for a vice president who doesn't seem to be working at the moment, doesn't judge the TSUE. First line, our Czech brothers. Here were the facts presented, I would call it, natural nature, i.e. Geology, physics, geography. Please note that none of the opposition who spoke so categorically here, unfortunately sometimes insulted our guests... You don't just do that. I mean, if you don't have an argument, you're offended. Because no one in opposition tried to deny these facts, and he did not refer to them. Well, it's hard to relate to nature's laws unless you want to be Einstein. There were different interpretations of the legal issues, and we will come to that in a moment. But the natural facts, the technological facts, no one denied, because they are unambiguous. Those of you who followed this debate, in particular the presentation, have the data as it stands. They say that we're right, we're right, i.e. Polish side. But it's not the facts, the Czechs aren't the facts. Or else, representatives of the Czech people, who may be acting only on their own behalf... The second question, namely the law. I have here this protocol from the cross-border consultation date: 3 and 4 October 2019. between experts from the Czech and Polish sides. He's signed, he's agreed. Then why did the Czech Republic pull out of it? What's new? What changed in nature? Well, change is, of course. Poles began to build an anti-filtering screen, i.e. to comply with the records of this protocol. I don't know if he's finished, because that question didn't come up, but he's probably on the verge of completion, because his progress has been quite significant lately. So, yes: Poles carry out what the protocol tells them, the facts change in favour, because this anti-filtering screen prevents water from pouring into the hole, let's just say, the possible drying of land on the Czech side, well, not the land, but the third-order fraction, and the protocol is not executed, is not honored by the Czech party. What's got to happen? Nothing in technology, nothing in technology, nothing in nature. So what? Well, politics. And much explains what we have been talking about here, although perhaps not very clear. On the one hand, we have a small power plant in Turów, compared to others, and on the other hand we have several plants in the same hands, power plants on the German and Czech sides. It's just competition, it's finishing competition with state institutions. And yet the Union has joined it. That's what this is all about. So who are you guys for? And it's not the question of whether it's behind Poland or the Czechs. Is it behind a private entrepreneur, the owner of these power plants and mines in the Czech Republic and Germany, or is it behind the people of Bogatyn? 'Cause it's gonna lose what it's about to lose. That's the dilemma. Of course, he raised above becomes a dilemma concerning Poland and the Czech Republic. And I am a little surprised by our brothers in the Czech Republic, because we had... maybe not conflicts, but disputes such as a dispute over territorial debt, but Poland did not make it a circus. I had to ask for special information about the amount of this territorial debt. But perhaps some of these disputes need to be raised to a higher level, and I wouldn't say that, because if the interlocutor, even the opponent, who sits with us at the table, and in this way we behave, shows bad will, then why should we be the good ones until the very end. It's just, you owe us 380 ha, you used it illegally, now you return the money that fell into your pockets from that use, plus the return of the land. Strong? Yeah, it's strong, 'cause I can speak very strongly. Mr. Minister, that's not appropriate. Briefly. That's how you negotiate. And if you don't, it's an EU degree. Is that what you want? 'Cause I don't, despite appearances, I don't. And that's what the Czech Republic is after. Well, how much can you look at a kid with a tear? Because that's how they act. How much can you be treated like that? I say this is private business. Perhaps a high-ranking person, I'm sure, but it's still private business. And now there's a second interested party, the TSUE, or actually one lady in this TSUE, because otherwise it can't be defined. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention to you one passage from the order which was issued and which imposed this penalty on us and which rejected our remedies from that original provision to introduce provisional measures in the form of an immediate order for the closure of the mine. Listen to me. As far as the second argument is concerned, I quote the Republic of Poland as set out in paragraph 20 of this provision, it suffices to state that the State has not sufficiently demonstrated that the cessation of mining of brown coal in the mine would indeed threaten to stop the supply of thermal energy and water here, but it is supposed to be warm in the area of Bogatynnia and Zgorzelca. That's it. There's an old rule in law that the obvious doesn't prove itself. If there's a mine that's powering the power plant... I'm already abstracting economic, economic issues, from what it threatens when it comes to the system, it's already been thoroughly explained. There is a city, a big city, several thousand people, which is largely heated by this power plant with residual heat. Well, if we shut down the mine and the power plant can't do anything else because, first of all, it's impossible for technological reasons, secondly, it doesn't pay, thirdly, we won't be driving brown coal, because it's not technically possible, it's just that, and that's why we build power plants at the mines and transport this coal with conveyors... If we shut down the mine, we'll shut down the power plant. What will happen to nature then? The Ministry's representative explained it. What's going to happen to the landslips, the flooding, etc.? If it affects the economy, it's also translated. But most of all, it's these people in Bogatyn. I dedicate this to you, experts from the Platform. There's no mine, there's no power plant, there's no heat. What are these people gonna heat the apartments with? Warm water will boil it, although on which, it is not known, because the gas is not there, there is no gas system. Do you know what it is or not? What do you experts suggest, geniuses? [[The fires will be there.]] At home, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, these are obvious things. As you can see, this is the level of argumentation of the TSUE. It is not obvious to the TSUE, this must be demonstrated. It's raining, there's a wet pavement, please show it. That's the level of argument. It wasn't really about the natural facts presented here, it wasn't about the law, it was about pure politics and business. The TSEU, as well as the European Commission, have been involved in this process. I don't know what they're trying to bargain here. To humiliate Poland or to embarrass yourself? Because we can quote other parts of this resolution. There's a problem, I think it's a problem, because if you're allowed to... Oh, that's right, Bialowieza Forest. Once we've allowed it, we've given it a finger, and now they're taking the whole hand. Abuse of the law must not be allowed! Then it was overused and it goes on, ladies and gentlemen. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska- Stanecka: Mr. Senator, 10 minutes.]] Completing, Mrs. Marshal. First of all, we know what it may be like to implement it. Secondly, in the Polish penal code for such a thing, i.e. The cause of disaster, the general danger, are simply punishments. Third, and that's probably the most important thing, there's no legal basis here. You try to impose penalties on Poland after you have failed to comply with the provisional security order, not after the judgment. You can be punished after you've failed to execute your sentence. There is no precedent in Europe. You can't build another one on one precedent. So it's such a clear, obvious excess of powers. We have 2 delicacies: trying to persuade the Polish government to cause a catastrophe, certainly in Bogatynia, and the second. An illegal attempt to abuse his powers. Well, we'll see... Perhaps at the very end, one day, we'll find out how your case ended. And here's the first letter and the first name, the initial of the name. I'm not talking about the violation of good customs, the principles of the law, but about the violation of the law of such a literal law. The TSUE will probably not withdraw from this, but I hope that the Polish authorities will behave as they have done so far. Thank you for being firm and defending the Polish state, but also, so directly, local environments, local governments, inhabitants of Bogatynia and surrounding areas. And thank you for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u110	Thank you very much. Please, as part of ad vocem, you are Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to the representatives of the PiS, I have the impression that the government is being accused of being sabotaged. 'Cause that's what it sounds like. That protocol you mentioned you had on your computer... If you had read, on page 13 you would have found that in this memorandum of understanding the Czechs had reserved the right or that they would have the opportunity to make their own comments before the environmental decision was issued by the body of first instance. So, if the Polish government applied this protocol in practice, we would not have the crisis that this government has led to. You're right. It was the government that caused the crisis and this is sabotage. This is indeed a serious matter, and someone else should be doing it. You are also right, Senator Frost, about energy problems in Poland. Mr. Senator, I have these numbers in my head, so I'll help you. In Poland, the installed power in coal power is less than 30 GW, 29 with a piece. The first exemptions due to the death of technical power blocks will take place in 2025. By 2030, your government will also be shut down about 23 GW due to its inadequacies. We do have a major energy crisis, it's already knocking on our door, it's right in front of us. And the government doesn't know what to do with it. He's telling nonsense that he's going to build a building block in nuclear power by 2033, and there's nothing going on about it. I've heard that Minister Kurtyka is about to be president of this new nuclear company, maybe it's true, maybe not, he'll probably take much more money, but the nuclear power plant won't be there until 2033, I can bet on that with everyone. Indeed, the government currently ruling in Poland leads to an energy crisis with its decisions, closing or obstructing the construction of wind power plants on land in 2016, making such decisions, halting the process related to the construction of offshore wind power plants. Now that we're referring to these unloved Germans sometimes, I'm going to say 54%. electricity produced in Germany comes from RES, and in Poland we do not reach 15% Because we're so well run by the PiS government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u112	Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal, corrigendum, from the scene.]] From where? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u113	Senator Gawłowski begged to quote as if I had spoken. He misunderstood me, I didn't say that. It's the opposite. That's all I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u114	Thank you very much. Senator Marcin Bosacki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! To me, it is, to be honest, very refreshing that the senators and politicians of the PiS are beginning to understand that in Europe it is a game of interest. To be honest, this is your discovery... I'll say it's better late than never. European politics, like the whole foreign policy, is precisely about whether someone wins or loses, whether someone does their business or someone doesn't do their business. As a result of the European and foreign policy of the PiS government in the case of Turova, there is, for the time being, a serious damage to Polish interests. You're just amateurs. I'm pointing out amateurs. You can't take care of Polish business. Now I'm gonna tell you why. One of the people responsible constitutionally in this case is, of course, a representative of Poland in the Czech Republic, or ambassador. This case has been increasing since at least 2018. Who then became Polish ambassador to the Czech Republic? Someone named Barbara Ć. Why didn't I give my full name, although of course it is well known, and the ambassador used that name? Because she was convicted, which I'm about to say. As Senator Gawłowski quoted, it was over 2 years ago that formal Polish-Czech negotiations took place on this issue, among others. in Wroclaw at Hotel Tumski. Senator Gawłowski quoted it. Since mid- 2019 she has been in Prague with Ambassador Barbara Ć. internal review of allegations of abuse of workers. It is clear that, in such an atmosphere, Ambassador Barbara Ć. She was not concerned with the interests of the Republic, she was merely dealing with her interests or defending those interests. She wasn't doing it right. Unfortunately, the PiS government allowed its position for another year only because she was the closest associate of one of the former Foreign Ministers of the PiS. When, contrary to the protocol mentioned by Senator Gawłowski, the minutes of the findings from the meeting in Wroclaw between the Czech and Polish sides did not meet the demands of the Czerwski, although we committed ourselves... Whether right or wrong, we can argue about it, but there is an interstate paper in which we commit ourselves to certain things. Unfortunately, we failed to do so, and therefore the Czechs, at least formally Or, in fact, we can discuss it for a long time. They're right. The control over the ambassador in Prague is ongoing. At the end of spring 2020, i.e. a year later, the case came to an international vote and the whole public opinion in Poland, in the Czech Republic and in Europe found out about it. Finally, there is a decision, indeed the accusations against the ambassador, who was already an ambassador for almost two years, I repeat about this. The abuse of workers is confirmed and revoked by the President of the Republic. But unfortunately for the next two and a half months, she doesn't leave the facility, for reasons unknown to me, still sabotaging... maybe not intentionally... In any case, she is dealing with her case and saving her own skin, not the interests of the Republic, which she should do. Finally, it is cancelled at the end of June 2020. Why he was not appointed for the next 16 months an ambassador of the Republic of Poland in the Czech Republic, whose first task, of course, should be to try to disarm the growing crisis in Polish-Czech relations around Turova, I do not know. Perhaps a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will answer this question. He was only appointed a week ago, in October 2021. For 16 months we did not have an ambassador in the Czech Republic when we had the biggest dispute with the Czechs since 1989. Is this a deliberate sabotage, or is this just a traditional failure of the PiS government? It was established in October 2021. I would remind you that the former ambassador was dismissed in June 2020 and, for the last year and a half, this ambassador, Mrs Barbara Ć, has dealt with his case of abuse of workers, not foreign policy, among others. I'm Turov. Anything else can be said when it comes to the issue of PiS foreign policy. I would just like to mention that today, at the head of this department, six ministers have not previously dealt with foreign policy, nor have they been engaged in diplomacy before taking up their duties. [[They'll learn.]] Well, that's how they learn. And they're all political denominations of the PiS. [[What are you saying?]] And now I turn not to you, but to Poles and Poles who listen to us: this is the result of stubbornness of the state. After all, the dispute with the Czech Republic still a few years ago would have been resolved as part of good relations in the Visegrad Group. Of course, contrary to all your stupid propaganda, they've deteriorated dramatically. Poland was the leader of the Visegrad Group, and now Orbán is the leader of the Visegrad Group, and at times no one coordinates it, which the Polish-Czech dispute is the best example. To put it simply, the Czechs have manipulated the PiS government into this case for now. I hope that the PiS government will finally come to its senses and act as it should, which is professionally. For now, perhaps by sabotage, and perhaps only by the inability of the government of PiS the Polish interests in this matter are lost. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u116	Thank you very much. Please take the floor in ad vocem mode, Senator Jolanta Hibner.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to be very precise, so I used materials that were prepared by the government when I was an MP in my previous term. If Senator Frost denies this information, ask the government why he gave us this information. These are specific things. It's not like I made it up. You said I wasn't telling the truth. Mr. Senator, get to the materials and tell me who the government is giving the wrong message if we got the material. I was not based on my whims or statements, conclusions, although I am an industry in this area, I am an engineer for sanitation, water and I have spent my life in energy and investment in this area. But I wouldn't be tempted to question your statement if you're based on government material. The information that Mrs Witek presented that we will wait for the new government, or what the Czech Prime Minister said: I am sorry, but Prime Minister Morawiecki is lying, is that not true? Look at the materials. Not the ones that pass the media one way or the other. For the materials we get at our disposal. Unless it's all a lie. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u118	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Would you like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches? There you go, Minister Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u119	Thank you very much. I think that there were a lot of interesting arguments in this debate and that they mostly found their answer, but there are some issues that I think it is worth clarifying, in particular in the context of environmental procedures. Firstly, as was the case with this protocol, what is the procedure, what we are obliged to do as a Member State and also as a party to the Esau Convention. We are obliged to reflect on all the comments we receive in the course of the public consultation, in the course of a cross-border consultation, and we have done so. In this particular case, these consultations shall end with a cross-border protocol. I stress that they end in this protocol. That's the practice. Czechs are an interesting example, because although we propose that the principles of our cross-border cooperation be governed by an intergovernmental agreement which would clarify such procedural issues as we exchange information, the Czechs consistently refuse. We have such an agreement negotiated with the Germans, we have such an agreement negotiated with the Slovaks and they simply help shape this discussion. The Czechs, for reasons unknown to me, don't want to make such a deal. Maybe they don't want to because they can easily use all these... these cross-border negotiations end with this protocol. But it doesn't matter much. The Czechs submitted, yes, comments and I referred to this in one of my previous answers, so I will only repeat that we addressed these comments, we took these comments into account and we took into account in the decision that was issued in January, the environmental decision, after having received these Czech comments in November, if I remember correctly. And that's another thing about the time sequence, which is important. This environmental decision was issued in January 2020, before the extension of the concession until 2026 and, of course, before the extension of the concession until 2044, but this was the order of action. And, of course, we knew the arguments raised by the Czech party and the objections to the procedure used for the extension of the concession for a period of 6 years. It so happens that we had to deal in parallel with the Commission in a slightly different matter, but a thematically intertwined procedure, which is probably why it is so well known to the senator that this procedure began in 2011. [[But you're using...]] In 2011, the EU Pilot procedure began... I am very pleased that we have finally managed to clarify this matter, agree with the Commission on the appropriate changes, including through work in the local parliament, make appropriate changes to our laws and clarify this matter. And this new decision to extend the concession until 2044 falls under this new regime, which is undoubtedly in line with all EU directives, because it was agreed with the Commission. So I think that, in this EIA procedure, these are important elements. I would just like to add that the Commission itself, assessing the Czech allegations concerning inter alia. this cross-border protocol and how to conduct cross-border consultations... While the Commission has shared several other Czech allegations, it has not shared and confirmed that Poland has carried out these cross-border consultations in accordance with the requirements of EU law. This is in support of the Commission's opinion. This was confirmed by the Commission before the TSUE, as the TSUE asked the Commission for its opinion on the matter. So there is absolutely no objection on the part of the Commission on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u120	Thank you very much. Minister Jabłoński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you for the part of the votes that have been cast in this discussion and which really highlight the essence of this dispute. The essence of this dispute... As the senators have said, there is a dispute over whose business is most important. Is this the interest of the inhabitants of the region, the inhabitants of Bogatyn, the inhabitants of the entire border region, the people employed in the mines, in the power plants, the people who are employed in various other companies cooperating with the mine? Or should the Polish state be guided by other interests? Namely, it is such a business that simply without any murmuring, even without asking questions, without question to make any decisions arising from the Court of Justice. I think this is extremely important. Here, Senator Pociej claimed that the legal basis was not appropriate. That's right, the legal basis... And the lack of this legal basis is a fundamental problem, the lack of a legal basis for such action as we can see on the part of some of the EU institutions in the last few months, the lack of power to give such decisions. We're gonna pick it up consistently, and we're gonna break it up all the time. And we're not gonna do what I think we're gonna do. Some politicians would want to. Namely, we will not simply agree to pay the penalty and simply close the mine. And such statements, unfortunately, appeared. I am also pleased that there has been a great deal of information in this discussion, that it was largely substantive, especially as regards the first part presented by Minister Dziadzio. I regret a little bit that in response to this discussion, as well as what was presented in the answers, one could hear that information about where to find, gain knowledge That this knowledge is publicly available, that it is available on the Internet, that it is available in documents It is treated as an act of arrogance. That's what I've heard, as I recall, from Senator Pociej. This statement is arrogant. It wasn't my intention to understand it that way. On the contrary, I appeal all the time, invariably to all the participants in this discussion, that before speaking out, In particular, before speaking categorically about the whole matter Read the facts. Because the facts are publicly available. Also, the justification for the Court of Justice's judgment, which was well cited, inter alia, by the Court of Justice. Mr Senator, as well as the protocol on cross-border arrangements, the consultation protocol. It's all very clear facts. If all the participants in this discussion knew them, we would not have argued today that there were no discussions with the Czech party. Because they were run since 2016. Therefore, once again, I stress: knowledge of the facts must be the basis for the substantive discussion. And please do not treat this as arrogance, but rather as a constant appeal for us to be based on facts on matters that are strategically important from the point of view of Poland, from the point of view of our energy security, social security, as well as economic interests, interests of the people of the region. And briefly on one point that you raised, Senator Bosacki. I am very sorry that immediately after this matter has been raised, he has simply escaped from this room. I have to say this very clearly. 'Cause the senator just lied. It is not true that any ambassador of the Republic of Poland has been convicted. Those words are simply not true. I hope Senator Bosacki, even though he ran away from this room, will have the courage to apologize for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u122	We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 531, and the report of the Commission In print No 531 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u123	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! I am pleased to present to the High House a report by the Health Committee on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 14 October 2021 amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws. On 15 October 2021, the Senate Marshal referred that law to the committee. The Health Commission met at its meeting on 20 October 2021. It is my pleasure to present to the High Senate a draft resolution that has been adopted. In the course of the discussion at the Health Committee meeting, the draft Law 7 has been amended as part of the examination of this proposal. All amendments have been welcomed by the committee. High Izbo, the aim of this revision of the Health Benefits Act is above all to bring it into line with the legal situation arising from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union. The aim is to ensure that, in accordance with this amendment and legislation, all rights to benefit from these health benefits in cross-border situations are maintained on an equivalent basis to those of EU legislation and the coordination of social security systems. It was the main theme and the main idea behind the amendment of this law. During the session of the Sejm, at second reading, as has already become the rule, additional issues and topics were introduced, which led to the amendment of several additional laws, including.: pharmaceutical law, prevention and control of infections and infectious diseases, drug refund law, legislation on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19. So the subject was quite widened. Among the most important issues that have been presented in the Sejm as additional provisions and articles of this amended law, 2 cases should be raised. Firstly, solutions have been introduced that regulate protective vaccinations. As you know, we now have an issue related to vaccinations against not only COVID, but also influenza. Therefore, workers from many medical professions have been properly trained to do so by obtaining specific qualifications that enable them to carry out these vaccinations. Therefore, both the eligibility criteria for persons, medical personnel and persons who may be vaccinated have been extended. This is an important amendment because, as you know, there is a shortage of medical personnel. Assuming that a third vaccination course will be applied to influenza vaccination, it must be assumed that this will require additional staffing. That is why the committee has absolutely agreed to these solutions, understanding the problem and agreeing that those who have already carried out vaccinations that have been authorised are qualified, apart from doctors or nurses, those who have so far carried out vaccinations against influenza can acquire these powers. It's one thing. And the second thing I want to mention right now, and which is also very important, is so-called. a covid supplement, an allowance of 30%, which will benefit workers, rescuers in outbound ambulances. He was reported during the debate in the Sejm, but it turned out that it was forgotten that in the rescue system there are not only ambulances in which rescuers drive, that it is a connected system, that there are among others. also rescuers in the Air Emergency Service and, of course, rescuers who work in hospital emergency units. I have knowledge, I am aware that emergency and emergency ambulances are rescues, and the S.O.R. is otherwise contracted, linked to a medical facility, but there are rescue workers working there as well. Therefore, during the meeting of the Health Committee, it was proposed to extend this provision, which has already come to us in the Act proposed and voted by the Sejm, so that the same additions as those honored to rescuers of outbound ambulances are included in the Air Rescue Service. This amendment has also been welcomed, perhaps the word will be the best, by the Minister of Health. And I hope that there is no doubt about this, there is no doubt that it is the same rescue system and the same rescuers. The additional issue is, of course, remuneration in the SORs. Here rescuers are not the only professional group, the SOR has a whole team consisting of doctors, nurses, and sometimes health care professionals. There has been an intense discussion about how to honor rescuers working in the SORs too, because please remember that if they do not have a higher salary, they will simply go away from these SORs, and the directors already have huge problems with staffing positions in the SORs, because they are probably one of the least grateful branches at the moment, requiring constant intervention, characterized by huge solstice, overloaded work because the number of people entering the SOR is really huge at the moment. The discussion that lasted during the committee meeting was mainly directed to these two themes, because they were, as it were, the most sensitive, the most sensitive. We have proposed an additional extension of the salary just for rescuers and the entire team in the SOR, exactly the same as in the away ambulances, but today we make 2 more amendments. One clarifies the issue of vaccination, clarifies the list of professions whose representatives can take part in the qualification, as well as in influenza vaccinations, and the other slightly changes the provision on salaries in the SOR, reducing the allowance from 30% to 15% because we believe that, in this connection, we differ a bit in the scope of the work, which is in the exit system and in the SOR system. Finally, the amendments adopted, as I said, were positive. And today I am making an additional 2 amendments of a more precise nature. We have had many discussions not only at the committee meeting, but also with the Minister of Health. And I hope that the Ministry will also accept this direction of change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u124	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Poor's first.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have one brief question. The question is whether the committee referred to why it did not take into account the receipt of the allowance by the members of the flight rescue teams. Has it been omitted? For what reason? Was that what you said at the committee meeting? And do you want to solve this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u126	I hope that this was simply an oversight and a lack of attention by the Ministry of Health, because this amendment, which has been notified in the Committee on Health from the outset, has been accepted and understood by the Minister. I understand that the Ministry, thinking about the rescue system, saw only ambulances, and forgot that it was also a system based on air emergency services. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u127	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, please tell us what the Health Minister present at the committee's meeting justified not to include rescuers and physiotherapists among medical groups who may carry out qualifying tests before vaccinations and to carry out vaccinations themselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u129	There was quite a long and in-depth discussion here, too. On the part of the members of the Health Committee, it seems to me that very important arguments have been made, namely that all persons other than those who so far can qualify and carry out vaccinations are... The number of these professions is greatly extended to such professions as rescuers, physiotherapists or diagnes. And we clearly emphasized that we are referring to those people who were trained during the preparation for vaccination on COVID, so they are people with qualifications. I don't know why they haven't appeared in these records so far, because there's no difference between a person who has qualifications, vaccinations with a vaccine on COVID or a vaccine against influenza. Let me stress once again: staff shortages are so big at the moment that every pair of hands is important when it comes to powering the entire public system, POZs or other facilities. And these people will be able to relieve doctors on this issue because they are fully qualified to do so. The Minister had doubts. I hope, Minister, that after the exchange of our arguments You yourself have said that you will be carefully examining this issue, and today your position will be a bit different and you will be willing to allow these people to participate in the vaccination programme as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u130	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u131	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I'd like to... Actually, I have two questions. Did the committee's meeting mention how many people in the United Kingdom and Poland are concerned about these social security measures? Were there any data from any analyses? And second question. In the explanatory memorandum, we have such a statement that the right to benefits in kind under the Protocol may be exercised by nationals of the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom who do not enjoy such rights under the withdrawal agreement. So, with the resignation agreement... Is this group divided somehow? Someone was entitled to this before, then some group was off, and that's why we have this amendment now?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u132	Mr. Senator, there was no such discussion. I understand the senators had no doubts here. It is simply that all those who have had health benefits so far, under these provisions and this amendment, will be able to receive them in exactly the same way. I think you'd better answer that question here, Minister. That wasn't the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u133	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Stanisław Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u134	I have a question for you, senator of the rapporteur. Was there a discussion at the committee meeting... Well, there have already been questions and answers, which would indicate that there was such a discussion, but I am specifically referring to the following accents. Namely the article is changed. 17 as regards compulsory protective vaccinations, and Article is amended. 19 for recommended protective vaccinations. And here we have different medical professions. E.g. in the case of compulsory medical professions may simply... be taken into account in the Minister's regulation, and some of these particular medical professions, such as. a pharmacist who is taken into account as regards the recommended protective vaccination, simply, no, does not appear in the entry on compulsory health benefits. And now my question about art. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5a. Don't you think the whole record is a little illegible, Senator? Because from this record it could probably indicate that it is not only the doctor who has been vaccinated against influenza, but also representatives of other professions, such as, for example, flu. Felcher, nurse, pharmacist, and what else have you added in the amendment, paramedic, physiotherapist. And isn't it just that there's no clarity here, or is it about the qualifying test, or is it just about the vaccination? Because if it was just about vaccination, then at this point the pharmacist would be performing twice. He'd be in his mouth. 5a and in the mouth. 5b where the pharmacist has been specified. And in your amendment, you added other medical professions. Isn't it just here? But the lack of clarity?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u135	Can you hear me? [[The speaker's on.]] Did I resist? No, it's okay. Mr. Senator, I don't think there's any contradiction, because in the mouth. 5a on the qualification test, on who may be eligible for the recommended vaccination. Influenza vaccination is recommended. And in the mouth. 5b we are talking specifically about vaccination. And here it's specifically stated that it's against flu. Why are we adding up? That's because these people We're talking about physiotherapists, paramedics, pharmacists. They are trained both for qualification and for vaccination. And why is that broken into two points? Well, that's how we got it from the Sejm, in this form. And this is the only issue we've extended to include additional competitions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u136	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a question for you. Of course, I also took part in this lively discussion about the payback of rescuers or all the medical professionals who work in the SOR, but today we must also not forget those who work in the reception chambers of county hospitals. They're often underfunded because they have a different valuation than hospital emergency services, and they do rescue medicine, even though the law says they don't. Practically ambulances also go to hospital emergency rooms. Whether it was mentioned at a committee meeting or, for example, Medical paramedics, medical personnel, nurses, E.R. babysitters should also receive this supplement? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u138	Senator, thank you so much for this question. Yes, this issue was raised, we have just seen the fact that only rescuers in away teams are honoured with this supplement, and in the SOR, which are already another element of the whole health care system, rescuers do not receive this supplement. Therefore, an amendment was tabled at the Health Committee meeting, whereby an allowance of 30% would be intended for the whole SOR team. This is an important remark, senator, that the emergency rooms work similarly. or trauma centers. All of this is in the record of this amendment. The discussion on this subject was profound, and also after the end of the committee meeting, we talked to both the directors on many occasions... I also spoke to the Minister on this subject. Because we think this is a very important issue. The point is that if doctors, if rescue workers working in the S.R. don't receive additional money and increase in wages, it's more than certain that they're just gonna go to emergency services, because they're just gonna be more profitable to work there. In order to prevent this phenomenon, we have prepared this amendment. And understanding that there's a team in the S.R., just like there's a multi-person team in the ambulance, we've come to the conclusion. And that's why a new amendment is being prepared today. We may reduce this supplement a little bit, but we will pay attention to the fact that those who work in the SOR or in the emergency rooms or in the trauma centers, where the amount of work is actually the largest in the facility, in the hospital, will be honoured with an additional salary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u139	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! I have a question about the article. 2. He is actually unrelated to the main policy of the law, to the main subject matter of this law. It's about changing pharmaceutical law. This change is, in short, that the scope of the cases in which it may, of course, be, with the approval of the President of the Office, be extended or eliminated by the obligation for the medicinal product in question, in this case the vaccine, to have a translation of the description into Polish. Question: How does this apply to the Polish language law? Because it is like another opening of another door so that the Polish language is not used to use only foreign-language naming. First of all, how does this apply to the Polish language law? Secondly, what was the purpose of this, the point? Well, that's what happened, that suddenly we have to. In addition to vaccines used in infectious diseases, do you use this exemption or allow this exemption to be applied?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u141	Senator, this is a question first of all to the Ministry. This is not our committee amendment. It's part of a project that's already gotten to us. Of course, we asked the minister why there was such a record. Please note that here it is clear that such a situation may be for a certain period of time. It's not a permanent record, it's a permanent solution, it's a unique solution, in case of rapid movements of vaccines. I think that this is mostly related to the delivery of vaccines as soon as possible, e.g. at the time we have right now, which is the epidemic. Nevertheless, these are proposals which have been accepted by the Sejm and which we have also accepted at the request of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u142	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u143	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Senator! I'd like to ask... This amendment results from adaptation, among others. Polish right to European Union law, since, in addition to the agreement to withdraw on 1 January 2021, the Protocol on the coordination of social security systems to the Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union, of the one part, and the United Kingdom, of the other part, has begun to apply. I would therefore like to ask whether the committee was discussing how this implementation of the legislation of the Member States looks in other countries and whether it includes vaccinations.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u144	No, that wasn't a discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u145	Thank you very much. The question in remote mode is Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, I would like to ask if there was a discussion at the committee's meeting about the regulation of the article. One and two? Do they raise doubts about the principles of legislative technique? Has this law been prosecuted in accordance with the rules of the legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u147	All the comments made by the Legislative Bureau are contained in the 2 amendments which the committee accepted. Reservations for this article The Legislative Bureau did not provide any information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u148	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u149	Senator, one more question. The draft amendment was very widely consulted, e.g. with trade unions, but also a number of other stakeholders, 28 stakeholders were consulted. I would like to ask if you know these opinions, whether these opinions were presented in committee and what these opinions are. Are they positive, were there any comments made by trade unions or other entities?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u150	Mr. Senator, I don't know if you know this, but the Health Committee has adopted this principle that we are not restricting access to the Health Committee meetings. You can both come personally and without any problem connect, we link those who want to speak. ♪ And never again ♪ I think there are people here who work in the Health Committee. It didn't happen to me as a guide to anyone's voice. There were no such people, no one volunteered.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u151	Thank you, Senator. That was the last question. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much for the report. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I invite and welcome Mr Maciej Miłkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would, in this first part, answer the specific questions asked by the president, which were more addressed to the government side than to the president. As for the question of Senator Poor, why there was no allowance for the Air Emergency Service, the justification is similar. This is an away allowance, as specified in the bill in the proposal for an amendment. This amendment proposal was tabled at second reading. As you know, after a second reading, the Committee on Health cannot change the amendment in any way and has therefore been adopted in this form. Thank you very much for having tabled such an amendment, because it seems very appropriate to us. Did the Ministry of Health justify why only pharmacists? In the first version, the applicant, Mrs Ratchurek-Żelazko, justified that, in fact, the main changes that were expected... Pharmacies have repeatedly claimed that they expect the first component of vaccination to be vaccination with COVID and then vaccination should be recommended for influenza. And that's why it's an amendment. By the way, there was an amendment on compulsory vaccination, so that medical rescuers could carry out it, because according to their powers in particular medical rescuers have the right to carry out vaccinations and have such skills, therefore they have been added. In the Senate Health Committee's amendment, which extended... The physiotherapists also asked the Health Committee to have the same powers. There were questions during the committee's meeting about other professional groups who received these privileges and who were trained in vaccination with COVID, i.e. physiotherapists and other professional groups. The current content presented by the President is in line with what has been adopted in the case of COVID vaccinations. We assumed in general that COVID vaccinations are such a uniform common movement, so that as soon as possible all of Poland will be implanted, all who are willing. That's why so many medical professions were included there. But we have assumed that we will leave the same powers for vaccination recommended for influenza, as the President said. As far as how many people would benefit from this agreement with Great Britain and Northern Ireland, I have learned that there are several thousand people who would continue to benefit from it. These are people living in Poland, but receiving a salary in the UK or vice versa. And, of course, the National Health Fund is obliged to pay these benefits in kind in an emergency. The United Kingdom could not at this point be treated as a country of the European Union, but as a non-EU state. In this respect, we would like the National Health Fund to have a legal basis for clearing in this respect, as in the case of the European Union and EFTA States. As for... there was also a question about the leaflet in Polish. These are unique vaccines. Why did they come here? Because it was a government submission, and we did it at the request of the vaccine producers. Some vaccines, in particular those directed to African countries, are sold in very small quantities. We're talking a few dozen, a few hundred pieces. Preparation of a series with Polish packaging would significantly increase costs, would reduce the profitability of such a process. In order to have access to these vaccines, in order to be able to sell them in Poland at all, we made such an attempt to amend the law so that, at the company's request, the President of the Registration Office could allow such flyers. This is an exception. I would like to say that in the field of hospital medicine, doctors who are professionals already have this right. Well, not all the drugs that are available at the hospital... Today, the President has the right to provide professionals with medicines with foreign packages and leaflets. This was not possible in outpatient mode, and vaccinations are carried out in outpatient mode. So that's definitely a change in the patient's favor. In addition, there is also a separate import mode for individual patients, for individual patients. There is also consent to import a particular package, a specific quantity. These medicines also do not need to have packaging in Polish. Why does a 30% increase in doctor's salary apply to outbound teams and not to others? This is, as I said, the issue of the second amendment. The medical rescue system actually includes away teams, flight teams and hospital emergency services, but funding is separate. In this basic, first, it is financed directly from the State budget. As far as away teams are concerned, funds from the National Health Fund as well as from the Ministry of Health are transferred through the voivodeship. This concerns measures under a law guaranteeing 7% GDP, resources for the exit rescue system. And benefits in the hospital emergency department are financed under the normal system of financing hospital benefits by the National Health Fund. There are various medical professions in this system, as the President said. Doctors, nurses and representatives of other medical professions work in the hospital emergency department. And in this respect, we can talk about further competitions. As Senator Gorgon-Komor said, the emergency rooms are not in the medical emergency system, but in these places, in those districts where there is no hospital emergency department, they sometimes perform similar tasks. Well, it's a hospital treatment system. We have assumed that the basic salary is negotiated in the Tripartite Group on Health Protection, so that the relationship between the various workers is not disturbed. Any supplement paid would cause a disruption of this system at the moment. And that was all the questions. I am pleased that the discussion in the committee was very substantive, and I confirm that all the questions that were addressed to us have been answered. All participants could ask questions. Well, such an additional issue, which was not solved, was just a question of a group of laboratory diagnostics who noted that they did not have the possibility of vaccination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u153	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u154	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm here. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Where?]] Mr. Marshal... Yes, I'm here, Minister. Minister, thank you very much for your answers. You answered most of my questions. I'd just like to clarify one thing. I understand that there are dozens of such cases when it comes to coordinating social security on the Polish side and on the UK side. But I would like to ask you about... Because in the explanatory memorandum there is such information that part of this coordination is decided by the agreement to withdraw, and part of this protocol is a regulation which entered into force on 1 January 2021. I've already asked the senator of the rapporteur if this speech agreement... Was it somehow divided? Did the withdrawal agreement safeguard this coordination only partially, and only this regulation clarified it? Was it somehow divided?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u155	About what happened... This protocol of the National Health Fund is implemented directly, here we did not have to change the rules. Only those changes which were added to the Act at the request of the NFZ had to be adopted in the form of a law, because the National Health Fund as a Polish liaison institution had no legal basis for financing the benefits of these people.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u156	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u157	Minister, as far as the article is concerned. 3, relating to the Prevention Act, that is Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5a is referred to as... It is the basic text of this law. There are three medical professions here: the rector, the nurse and the pharmacist. The committees that were discussing this law have proposed the introduction of two more medical professions, namely a paramedic and a physiotherapist. These two competitions, which the committee has proposed, go to the mouth. 5b, which is until the next paragraph, where influenza vaccination is referred to. And now it's a proposal to have one of those mouth-to-mouth medical professions. 5a to the mouth. 5b only went through the profession of pharmacist. I don't know where the other two competitions were lost: the rector and the nurse. Tell me why... Yeah, by the mouth. 5a The representatives of these 3 professions can simply carry out tasks related to influenza vaccination. To the mouth, on the other hand. 5b goes through only 1 of these 3 professions, namely the pharmacist only, while the felcher and nurse do not go through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u158	As far as I know, Madam President has tabled an amendment today, which will be the same as the current state of law, which will increase the powers also with regard to the midwife, the dentist, the laboratory diagnostics, i.e. all those who are... 5a concerns the qualification for vaccination, i.e. the collection of an interview from the patient. As far as execution is concerned, medical paramedics and nurses already have these powers for vaccination, so they don't have to have additional tasks... It's specified in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u159	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Alicia Chybicka, please take the floor. In remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very short. I would just like to say how valuable the provisions on COVID-19 are in this law, especially in the vaccination section, to allow employees of other medical professions to carry out these vaccinations. However, the question arises as to whether it should be so that people who are vaccinated have preferences in different places. As you can see, the educational effort so far is insufficient and we still cannot reach the border beyond which we will be vaccinally safe, i.e. up to 70%. , and preferably 80% fully vaccinated individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u161	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Swede has made his speech to the record. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Małecka-Libera. The discussion is closed. Does the representative of the government want to respond to the legislative proposal put forward? No. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the meeting. At this point, I was about to announce a recess, but the senators are asking me to consider one more point. [[Voice from the room: Yes, please.]] [[Voice from the room: Very good, we want to work.]] We agree, Mr. Marshal. Oh, there's just a problem here, Senator, that there's no government representative presently in the Sejm, so I can't... [[Voice from the room: But if there are no questions, I guess you can.]] But I don't... [[Voice from the room: There will be no. It's all set.]] But with a government representative, there's no... [[Voice from the room: Yes. With the Minister...]] Good. In that case, we proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic. The text of the Act is contained in print No 535 and the report of the committee In print No 535 A. I would like to remind you that the Committee on Infrastructure has recognised the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure presented a proposal for a legislative initiative. This proposal, together with the draft law, is included in print No 541. I would remind you that the proposal for a legislative initiative is presented by the rapporteur together with the committee's report on the bill under consideration. After hearing the request, the Senate shall decide in the vote on the accession to the second reading of the bill. If the request is accepted, the second reading shall be held at the same meeting as a separate item on the agenda. Failure to adopt a resolution on the accession to the second reading means that the draft is referred to the procedure set out in Section IX of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Halina Poora, to speak and to present the report of the committee on the bill under consideration and the request of the committee to take a legislative initiative on the draft law amending the Act on the Government Road Development Fund and the Act on the Development Fund for bus services of general interest. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izo! I would like to present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure, which discussed the law on amending the law on road traffic. The Commission has introduced one amendment in this law, more editorial than substantive, in order to replace words with words, in so far as they are required. I would just like to remind you that this law transfers powers regarding the issue of decisions on derogations from the technical conditions from the Minister for Transport to the level of the Director of Transport Technical Supervision, which should improve the service of citizens in this area. The nature of the bill is merely tidying up. During the committee meeting, the committee unanimously decided to act on the basis of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure, legislative amendments to the legislative procedure. The Commission has taken such a decision unanimously and the case concerns the amendment of the Act on the Government Road Development Fund and the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u163	Thank you very much. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. There are no questions... [[Short, one.]] Oh, there's a call... [[Voice from the room: No, there isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: No questions!]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Put it in writing...]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[Then I'm pulling out.]] There isn't? Good. [[Room voice: Bravo, Senator Swede!]] [[Voice from the room: Good man.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I would like to remind you that, after hearing the motion made by the rapporteur, the Senate will decide to join the second reading of the bill without first reading it. We will proceed to the vote on this matter after a break in the voting block... [[Voice from the room: No, now.]] [[Voice from the room: Now!]] Now? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] No, no. I said after the break, in the voting block, and I'm not gonna change that. I'll announce in a moment. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u164	High Senate! A meeting of the Health Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Law on the amendment of the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws will take place 5 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 182. And the second message. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of applications submitted at the 30th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws will be held today at 15.00 in room 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u165	Thank you. Dismissed until 5:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 48 to 17 minutes 32]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u166	I'm reopening the session. I don't have a signal on my little screen. Mr. IT guy... [[Talking in the O.R.]] There he is! We are returning to the second item of the agenda... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to focus, we have some votes to vote in the Seym waiting for our vote. I would like to remind you that the deliberations will continue and that after this block of votes there will be a vote on item 9 .. road law.. Which we'll remind you of later. ...Law amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 513 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Report from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. At its meeting on 28 October, the Commission examined the proposals submitted during the debate on 27 October to the Act amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining and certain other laws. A motion for adoption of the law without amendments has been made and this proposal has received a majority of the committee's votes. I'm filing for a bill... The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u168	Thank you very much, Senator. Would the Senator like to speak again? Senator Adam Szejnfeld submitted his conclusions during the discussion. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We therefore proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] It's not that close yet. Just focus a little bit more. Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 49 for, 50 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 15]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. If you fire me, I'll only read the numbers. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes, please.]] Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 18]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senatoria No 505 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. We are proud to worship the victorious uprising. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Sports Act. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate print No 518 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Sports Act. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Senate Act No 511 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We're waiting for two remote votes. Please check if you have pressed the Send button. Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] Attention, amendments 2, 5, 6 and 7 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 51 against, 47 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 against, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 25]] Attention, amendments 8 and 10 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 96 for, 3 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 9. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 27]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 98 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and on certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 506 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting today, the Commission considered the proposals put forward during the debate and presented the following position to the High Senate. We ask you to accept the applications contained in points (one), (one) and (one) to (one) and (one) to (one) and (one) to (one) and (one) to (one) to (one) and (one) to (one) to (one) and (one) to (one) to (one) and (one) to (one) to (one) and (one) to (one) and (one) to (one) to (one) and (one) to (one) and (one) to (one) to (one) and (one to one) to (one) and (one to three to three) and (one to one) to be In addition, I inform you that on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. The These are points 1 and 15 in the list of applications. Senator Richard Bober based on art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed This is point 30 in the table of applications. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the same time, the Commission proposes And this is a unanimous proposal from the committee. For amendments Nos 4, 7, 13, 14, 16, 24, 25, 29, 31, 33, 34, 42 [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u170	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u171	With regard to the voting procedures, I would like to make such a request in every vote as to what the committee's position was. [[Good.]] I have great confidence in the committee, and I would like to vote like the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u172	Except I don't have it in my script... [[Talking in the O.R.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, have... We're gonna try to get through this. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Look, Ladies and gentlemen, a marathon awaits us. Thanks to the agreed committee's decision, we have enumerated amendments on which we will vote together. If necessary, I will read the text of the amendment, and if not, I will only give its number. In the course of the discussion, the conclusions were made by pleno titulo senators Jacek Bury, Kazimierz Kleina, Marek Martynowski, Krzysztof Mróz, Marek Borowski, Adam Szejnfeld, Ryszard Bober, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. In addition, Senators Krzysztof Mróz and Grzegorz Bierecki were the rapporteurs of the minority of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. I remind you that Senator Ryszard Bober withdrew his application from point 30 in print no. 506 Z. Does anyone want to uphold this motion? I don't see any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 52 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 29]] Attention, amendments 2 and 67 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendment 68. These amendments are by Senator Jack Bury. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Focus, everyone. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 3, Committee on Budget and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 31]] Amendments 4, 7, 13, 14, 16, 24, 25, 29, 31, 33, 34, 42 Well, I'm gonna ask you formally, is anyone against combining these amendments? But I don't expect any objection here. Thank you very much. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 98 for, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 5, Committee on Budget and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Senator Kwiatkowski is voting. Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 6, Senators Krzysztof Mroz and Senator Marek Martynowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 49 for, 50 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 8, Senators Krzysztof Mroz and Marek Martynowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 49 for, 50 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 9, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 36]] Attention, Amendment 10 will rule out voting on Amendments 11 and 12. This is the amendment of Senators Kleina, Borowski and Szejnfeld. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: Za.]] [[I'm gonna lose it.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 52 against, 45 against, two abstentions. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 15, Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 17, minority of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 48 for, 50 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 18, Senators Krzysztof Mroz and Marek Martynowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the Chamber: We are voting on Amendments 18 and 32.]] Excuse me, I have to repeat the vote because amendments 18 and 32 must be voted together. Amendment 18 is the amendment of Senator Krzysztof Mroz and Senator Martynowski, and amendment 32 is... [[Voice from the room: Also.]] ...is also written by these two senators. Who's... Once again, the vote on this matter. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One Senator from the remote, please draw your attention... Please state the results of the vote. [[Voice from the room: Something's going pretty hard.]] Not if it doesn't float... We're still waiting for you out loud online. 98 senators voted in favour, 98 in favour. [[Voting No 40]] An example of beautiful ecumenism. Amendment 19, Senators Kleina, Borowski and Szejnfeld. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 20, senators Kleina, Borowski and Szejnfeld. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 21, Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 22, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 23, Senators Kleina, Borowski and Szejnfeld. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 votes, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 26, Senators Frost and Martynowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 49 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 27, Senators Frost and Martynowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 48 for, 49 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 28, minorities of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One Senator from the remote... Take a look, see if it's been sent. Please state the results of the vote. Sometimes one voice goes off the Internet longer and then we give it a chance for 20 seconds. 98 senators voted, 48 for, 50 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 30 has been withdrawn. Amendments 31 and 32 have already been voted together. We move on to Amendment 35, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 36, senators Bure and Kwiatkowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Mr. Agnieszka, are you voting? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't see it. See if there's a button pressed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It works...]] I would point out that he shows me that the senator is not voting and that he is voting. 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 50]] Amendment 37, Senator Richard Bober. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 votes against, 47 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 38, Senators Bury and Kwiatkowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted against, 5 against, 92 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 39, Senators Bury and Kwiatkowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 40, Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment 41, Senators Kleina, Borowski and Szejnfeld. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 55]] And now for the next amendment. This will be Amendment 49, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 99 Senators voted, 57 for, 42 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 51, Committee on Budget and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 55, Committee on Budget and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 54 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 58]] Amendment 56, minorities of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 48 for, 51 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 59]] Attention, Amendment 57 will rule out voting on Amendment 58. This is Senator Bure's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 3 for, 94 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 60]] We are therefore voting on Amendment 58, Senators Kleina, Borowski and Szejnfeld. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 61]] Attention, Amendment 59 will rule out voting on Amendment 60. Amendment 59 is an amendment to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 62]] So now Amendment 61, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 63]] Amendment 62, minorities of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 48 for, 51 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 64]] Amendment 65, Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 65]] Amendments 2 and 69 were accepted and there is no vote on Amendment 68. We are now voting on Amendment 72, the amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 98 senators voted, 53 for, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 66]] Amendment 73. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 67]] Amendment 75, Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 68]] Attention, we are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 49 for, 4 against, 46 abstentions. [[Voting No 69]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the law amending the law on road traffic. I would like to remind you that before the session was interrupted, the rapporteur presented a report to the committee on the bill under consideration and a request from the committee to take a legislative initiative on the draft law amending the Act on the Government Road Development Fund and the Act on the Development Fund for bus services of general interest. After hearing the Senate's motion... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like your attention, please. ...deciding to join the second reading of the bill without first reading. We therefore proceed with the vote on the introduction to the agenda of the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the Government Road Development Fund and the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services. Who among you is in favour of entering the second reading of the bill? [[Voice from the room: Against.]] Who's against it? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 10 for, 86 against, 3 senators abstained. [[Voting No 70]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has not decided to proceed to the second reading of the bill at this sitting and has therefore referred the draft to the procedure set out in section IX of the Senate Rules of Procedure. So we're back on point nine... [[Talking in the O.R.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I invite the Minister to the pulpit next to me. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. Because I thought the microphone wasn't working. [[Talking in the O.R.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would anyone like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Are they recorded in the voice? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. The Senators of Świlski, Szwed and Bladder made their speeches to the minutes, and the legislative proposals were made by Senator Ryszard Świlski along with Senator Poor, Mr Frankiewicz... [[Voice from the courtroom: Hamersky.]] [[Senator Hamerski.]] Yeah, we know. And Mr. Senator Hamersky. I'll write it down. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u173	Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 517 and the report of the committee In print No 517 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Paweł Arndt, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has examined the law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws on 20 October. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The bill is quite extensive, rather complex, but uncontroversial. The Minister, who presented the bill to us, stated that the law is purely implementing, and it is indeed so. The purpose of the Act is to adapt to Polish legislation a special package of European Union rules on capital requirements of investment firms. This package includes a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on prudential supervision of investment firms and a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on prudential requirements for investment firms... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, please move your calls to the cockroaches and remain calm. The session is underway, please allow the senator to present his report.]] The aim of the package is to establish a new prudential regime for investment firms. The prudential supervision of investment firms is intended to take into account the ability of investment firms and their clients to take risks and the different degrees of that risk. In order to achieve this, 23 laws change. Let me not read the laws. Well, maybe I'll just replace a few. This is e.g. Act on trading in financial instruments, Act on pledge lists and mortgage banks, Act on investment funds and management of alternative investment funds, Act on supervision of the financial market or Act on macro-prudential supervision of the financial system and crisis management in the financial system. As I said, the bill did not raise controversy, there was no special discussion on this bill. Let me just say that the bill does not affect the outcome of the public finance sector. There were no votes against in the Sejm, 10 Members abstained. During the work of our committee, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, all the senators voted in favour of the bill and on behalf of the committee I ask the High House to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u175	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u176	Mr. Senator, why don't you say in such a circular language what will change with regard to the current regulations after the adoption of the bill? I understand that this is some kind of implementation. But what exactly will change in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u177	Above all, supervision of investment firms will increase. In the Polish case, these are simply brokerage houses. This prudential supervision will depend on how important, how big an investment firm is, that is, the brokerage house. Brokerage houses have been divided as if in 3 categories and depending on the category either this supervision will be larger or the requirements will be less restrictive. This is a change that has been so far... This means that the directive and regulation of the European Parliament, which I mentioned earlier, impose prudential requirements. These prudential requirements are introduced simply for the benefit of investment firms and their clients.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u178	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u179	I have a question about that. Has the bill been consulted with the brokerage house environment at the stage of... I don't know if that's gonna be a question for the senator or a representative of the department.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u180	Yeah, he was consulted. I think the Minister could say more about this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u181	Second question. So, after the bill has been passed, will the security increase, so to speak, the clients of the brokerage houses who...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u182	Yes. This bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u183	And now I am. If you compare it like that, look for a balance like that... Because the bill imposes new obligations on brokerage houses. [[I'm sure you do.]] So there will be more administrative and organisational burdens on their side, and on the client's side there will be greater comfort in terms of the safety of economic turnover and the measures they entrust to these houses. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u184	Yes, the senator actually answered his own question. That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u185	That's all the questions? Yes. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed and Wadi Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Accounting Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 534, and the report of the Commission In print No 534 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Paweł Arndt, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances examined the Act amending the Accounting Act and some other laws last Wednesday. This law, I will say at the beginning, was adopted unanimously by the Sejm, but at the meeting of our committee it triggered a discussion and I would like to say a few sentences on this subject. The aim of this law is to adapt the Polish legal system to the solutions adopted in European Union law and to allow the use of new digital technologies in the field of accounting. The amendment amends 5 laws, but these changes are most affected by 2 laws, namely the Accounting Act and the Act on Auditors, Auditors and Public Supervision. In the first law, the Accounting Act harmonises the rules on the use of a single electronic reporting format. This is quite important, so far there has not been such a solution. But that's not what caused the doubt. The amendment introduces changes to the signing of reports to facilitate the operation of multi-member bodies. And that raised some doubts. There is now such a provision that, if an entity directs a multi-member body, the financial statements may be signed by at least one member of that body. It's a good solution, and it didn't raise any doubts. But there is also an addition, namely the other members of this body should make statements that the financial statements meet the requirements of the Act. And that raised doubts about that... There are concerns or doubts as to whether all persons who are board members and should sign or make this statement under this report, which I have mentioned, are competent enough to make a clear assessment of this. There is a fear that from the so-called. pure caution will refuse to sign such a report. Such doubts have arisen. However, after the discussion, the committee did not fully share these concerns, we do not think it has to be. However, this has so far been the case and there have been no such doubts, according to the Ministry, the Minister, and the removal of such solutions, i.e. allowing the approval of the report without confirming that it meets the requirements laid down in the Act, could introduce or cause certain legal risks. There were little doubts as to whether this could be in accordance with international rules. The second law, which I said was that the amendment also raised some doubts, is the Act on statutory auditors in audit firms and public oversight. She's pretty much the broadest in this whole set of laws. Here the change extends the availability to modern technologies of the Polish Audit Supervisory Agency, statutory auditors and audit firms, enabling among others. Remote meetings are held just by the audit supervisory agency, the National Council of Auditors, the National Audit Committee. Here, too, there are doubts as to whether these are good solutions. There are also records concerning the audit itself in audit firms, and here there were doubts as to whether this should be the case. However, the Minister, with his explanations, convinced us that this could be the case. So that no amendments were tabled during the work on this law. I would also like to say that this law will not affect the outcome of the public finance sector. As I said at the beginning, in the Seym 445 Members voted in favour of this law, no one opposed it, no one abstained. During the work of our committee, one senator abstained, all the others were in favour. On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I request that this law be passed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u187	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Swede. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u188	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. In the course of the consultation, this novel was addressed to 16 actors, such information is included in the impact assessment. I would like to ask if the doubts you have raised arise from the opinion. Were there any opinions sent to this bill? If so, what were those opinions?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u189	The discussion took place primarily around the opinion of the representative of the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises. It was the representative of the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises who suggested that some of these rules should be deleted and that they, however, complicate the operation of audit firms, particularly in this respect, which concerns control. Here is the provision that it is possible to control these companies during the course of another control and it may not have a time frame. It was all a matter of doubt. However, after the discussion, the committee decided that such a provision as is in the law that came to us from the Sejm could be accepted. [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind my asking...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u190	Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u191	I have another question. I'm talking about a new I.D. model, because it's a novel, too. I would like to ask what the cost of these new IDs will be when they are issued and who will bear the cost of these IDs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u192	That wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting. Perhaps the Minister will be able to say more about this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions. First. Will anything change with regard to the current regulation as regards time-consumingness and procedures for preparing these reports? Do these changes increase such an administrative burden when it comes to producing these reports, which are often complained about by different companies, or are they neutral from this point of view? And second question. You were talking about the doubts that were reported. And what if one of the members of this management body does not wish to make such a statement, referring at least to the fact that it is unable to assess whether this report meets the requirements laid down in the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u195	Well, actually there are companies that are afraid that the provisions of this law may cause more nuisance, especially because of the checks I mentioned earlier. It is possible to overlap these checks and, therefore, the preparation of documents may be a little more burdensome. The second question, on the other hand...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u196	What's gonna happen in this situation... Maybe I'll say it again if you let the marshal. [[Yeah, yeah...]] What will happen if this new obligation is not fulfilled, according to which all members of the Management Board must declare that the report complies with legal requirements? Suppose, for some reason, someone doesn't want to sign it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u197	Well, in that respect, nothing's gonna change. If a member of a multi-member body decides not to make such a declaration, that will be tantamount to refusing to sign the report. Of course, he will have to justify his position in writing. If a majority of the members of such an authority accept this report, the report shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u198	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are questions. Then you're welcome, Minister, to the podium. Hello, Minister Piotr Patkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome, Minister. And I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u199	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In fact, I would like to repeat this second question which I have addressed to the Senator of the rapporteur. I'm talking about those I.D.s. What's their cost? Who will bear these costs? So what's the procedure for granting such a card, possibly taking it away?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! IDs will be granted to employees of the Polish Audit Supervisory Agency. This will, of course, be financed within the budget of the Polish Audit Supervisory Agency. A person who is authorised to hold such a card shall not bear any costs. You have declared that your own budget will bear the costs of issuing such credentials to your employees.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u201	Thank you very much. Senator Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u202	I would ask the Minister to... the Senator rapporteur mentioned that, in the opinion of some actors, the level of reporting would rise. This concerns these requirements. What exactly is going on? How will it rise to those current standards according to which reports are drawn up? In other words, the intention of my question is: will it not again be so that large corporations or large entities that have specialised services will be in a better position, in turn smaller entities that have fewer employees and less departments, will particularly feel the burden of these new regulations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u203	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start by saying that this regulation clearly reduces the burden for NGOs. At this point in time, the financial statements must be signed by each member of the Management Board. If it is a multi-member body, then each member of the board must sign it using an electronic signature, which is, as we know, problematic in the case of the smallest boards. This bill endures this duty. Only 1 authorised member of the Management Board will have to sign such declaration by electronic signature. The others will be able to make a written statement with their own signature. Therefore, this is definitely deregulation and we are definitely facilitating the functioning of multi-member bodies. At the same time, I would like to point out that in the case of smaller non-profit units The smaller units are those that have up to 100 thousand zlotys of income. It is possible to keep a simplified register of revenue and costs for tax purposes without the obligation to keep accounts and to draw up financial statements. Therefore, for many, many, many years, the board has had to sign, we are merely simplifying the way these accounts are signed. To answer the senator's question, not to me, but to the senator's rapporteur, about what happens when some member of the board doesn't want to sign the report for some reason, I say yes. First of all, he has an opportunity, as I said, to put it in writing with his own signature, he doesn't have to do it electronically. At the same time, such refusal should always be justified, there should be a reason, e.g. that it does not agree with the accuracy of the accounts. Then he makes such a statement to the National Court Register. It is also always possible for the accounting officer to ask for a review of the correctness of such a report. Such possibilities have been so far, except that so far such a statement had to be made with an electronic signature, and now it will be possible to submit it with a signature by hand.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u205	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For the first time I may be watching badly in this House with the concept of searchable format and generally available software for reading or editing documents. Are there definitions of these concepts in Polish laws before? Are we bringing this in here, or is this the first time this is happening? If we enter, we may refer to it in other laws. Could you give examples? I understand that when we talk about data format, this is about file format, but I would ask for examples of available software for reading or editing the document.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u207	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u208	The concept of a searchable format is introduced by this project. It is implemented not only because of EU rules, but also because of the demands of individuals themselves. So far, the financial statements have already been signed frequently in a format that makes it impossible to read, so often even a member of the body, when he was another person signing such financial statements by electronic signature, could no longer properly read this report. We're changing that right now. The search format is e.g. PDF format and in this form we allow you to sign. Actually, here we are expanding this directory very much, so this is also a simplification for the NGO. Of course, we enter the exact definition in the bill, so that shouldn't give us any doubt. Moreover, in the course of consultations and opinions, neither stakeholders nor legislative entities, such as the RCL or the Legislative Office in the Sejm, raised doubts about the understanding of this concept. So it seems that the consultations also indicate that this will be understandable and it is understandable for the authorities to apply it. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, because...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u209	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u210	There is also such an interesting concept of searching and copying strings of alphanumeric characters. Most, I would call it, editors also have the ability to search and copy control characters. This matters perhaps not in the case of signatures, but in copying tables. Is it intentional to limit it only to alphanumeric characters, or did it just come out, no one thought about it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u211	As far as I know, yes, it's on purpose. This is the wording of the KPRM, and Digitization took part in its formation. So that it is at the request of the Minister responsible for digitisation, so it is intentional.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u212	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Godyla and Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. The text of the Act is contained in print No 512, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 512 A and 512 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to report on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Act amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. The honourable committee considered the proposal at its meeting on 19 October and decided, after a longer discussion, that it would propose the adoption of a law without amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject, it is very short, laconic. You could say that this is a slight change. With regard to the amount of return that farmers have, today the limit is 100 l/ha, and it will be, in zlotys, 110 zł per hectare. For farms that have animals, cattle, the amount is also increased by 10 zł, so far it has been 30 zł, now it will be 40 zł. And, of course, the budgetary impact is fixed until 2031; this is an increase of the current amount from the state budget by 160 million, i.e. a total of more than PLN 1 billion from the state budget will be payments to farmers. We also asked for an increase in the maximum rate at the committee meeting. The discussion showed that this was more than we have at the moment, and that the discussion was probably about the amount of 5 and 7 gr. It could be further increased when it comes to the possibility of reimbursement, because these rates are fixed and these rates are set in accordance with the obligation imposed by the European Union as to how many parts must be left, so that the rate cannot be completely removed. Therefore, we could not increase the amount more in terms of these small pennies, but we can increase the amount per hectare. In the Seym there was a proposal to increase to 130, but of course she did not pass. Organizations, trade unions, among others My agricultural union also requested that there be 130. The government has stated that this is a decision at the moment, because it is one of the so-called projects. agricultural Polish Order, that such financial consequences are planned. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, all I can ask is for the bill to be adopted without amendment. And if you have the opportunity to act individually, make decisions. I present the position of the agricultural committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u214	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances examined the Act on 20 October. I'm not discussing this bill. My previous speaker, Senator Chróścikowski, did it well. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, like the Committee on Agriculture, calls for this law to be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u216	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of question to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski, Mr. Senator Szwed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Chróścikowski, the rapporteur of the agricultural committee. Mr Senator, was there a discussion at the committee's meeting about the fact that in total this increase to 110 per hectare at galloping fuel prices is absolutely unable to cover the increase in fuel costs needed for agricultural production? But shouldn't we still... You yourself pointed out that the NSZZ's solidarity of individual farmers called for the introduction of a factor of 130. So shouldn't it be accepted for this simple reason that this reflects more or less the level of fuel price increases? As we know, the mood among agricultural producers is not the best because it is a galloping increase in production prices and the cost of fuel is one of the very important elements of production costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u218	As for your position, which, as the senator thinks, should be... Farmers would want that, too. There's only one problem. We've been fighting for years to get the excise duty we pay... We don't drive on the road, that's harvester consumption, that's tractor consumption on the fields. So it's not something we should be paying like driving on the road. Plus, there's another tax, so-called tax. additional, which also burden farmers to a large extent. The fuel price isn't as high as all the taxes we pay. Plus, there's VAT. These larger farmers can write back VAT, and these small ones can't, unfortunately, and that's why we're still asking that... from the calculations of scientific institutes, it turns out that consumption is actually higher today, especially when it comes to very laborious activities. The fuel consumption is up to 130 l/ha. If so, this should be taken into account. I can tell you that I thank the government that whatever picks it up a little bit. It was 85, then 95, we pick it up a little bit. Now we're up to 110. I'm sure the farmers are grateful, the excise duty is almost refunded. It's debatable how experts can prove that consumption... Does the government agree to add more, which is to raise it to 130? That's the question. As of today, the position is that we enter the amount of PLN 160 million per year into the budget. In order to increase it twice as much, the amount would have to be raised to about 480 million. I'm talking about an increase in the budget. The government wasn't willing to confirm that. There is perhaps only such a provision in the draft budget law, and therefore the position of the government is clear. If we wanted to change that, of course we would be very grateful as farmers, but then it wouldn't be 160 million... I'm throwing it so well. I don't have that calculation, but I think so. If we increase that much, it would increase to nearly PLN 0.5 billion. If that's the government's will, I'm in favour. If anybody makes these corrections, we'll be behind them as farmers. It is a matter of decision and political, economic and economic, and changes to the budget law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u219	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u220	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you something. In fact, you've already answered me in part to the first question. I mean how funding for fuels has been steadily increasing since 2015. Indeed, this amendment is very positive, and I am glad that this value is growing all the time. You've already answered the second question in part. I meant the cost, what would they be if there was a factor of 130. I understand that if there were 168 million at 10 l, it would probably be 168 times. 3. Yes? [[That's 400...]] As you say, it would probably be about PLN 0.5 billion. I'd have another third question. I would like to ask how it is in other Member States of the European Union. Did you talk about it at the committee meeting and whether there were any analyses of whether or not other countries were somehow... Do they also finance agriculture in this way?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u221	This is possible because a regulation of the European Union allows such a provision. In this context, it is different for different countries to resolve this in the framework of the regulation. In some countries fuel is used colored, other ways also have. We thought this mechanism was the best, the easiest. And for many years, we've been doing this to make the farmer submit an invoice, an application for reimbursement, and then he gets the money. It's checked, it's working, and I think... And there were also proposals: and why limit the limit, can give e.g. Colored fuel? Well, you'd have to process a whole system that's been around for years, and maybe this new one wouldn't be any better. Maybe he'd be worse. This system is working, so I don't think we're considering another system right now. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u222	No further questions. Thank you, senators. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome. Hello, Mr Richard Bartosik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Minister, please come to the podium. Unless you prefer it because you feel better... But, as a rule, government representatives are taking the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u223	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The proposed law amending the excise duty drawback law contained in the price of gas oil used for agricultural production aims to increase the limit of consumption of gas oil per hectare of agricultural crops from 100 l to 110 l and to 1 large conversion unit of cattle from 30 to 40 l. High Izbo, on this occasion, I would like to say that the latter component, i.e. the payment to the large cattle conversion unit, was introduced during the rule of law and justice, before that, there was no such payment. Today we raise this from 30 to 40 l. The cost for the state budget is over PLN 1 billion 300 million per year, so these are significant funds that affect farmers' accounts. The President of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented here the entire justification and all the details of the law. This bill is pretty short. It talks about raising these limits, which will later result in a higher refund of part of the excise duty to farmers. We respond to increasing costs in this way. If possible, the budget for this period. The senators' questions go in the direction of whether or not this phrase could be greater. We're analyzing the market situation. Well, right now there's a new minister of agriculture, so he's gonna analyze it. And if the trend is going in a direction that is unfavourable to farmers, that is, if the fuel is expensive, we will be considering another increase in return. Then we should also consider raising this limit. I ask the High Senate to adopt a resolution and accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u224	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u225	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Two questions, completely different. There's some kind of philosophy in these raises. As far as the ground payment is concerned, that's a 10% increase. , from 100 to 110, and in the case of aid for the conversion unit of bovine animals, this is an increase by 1/3, i.e. 33%. What does that tell you? Is this really consumption, I'd call it, for animals is bigger than for groundwork? And the second question is related to the agricultural census. That ledger was over a year ago. We got some results. Are these results as to the area and the number of animals comparable to what you can get with the aggregation of the payments you pay? Because you can kind of get information about the area and the number of animals.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u226	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the first question is concerned, we are simply increasing both here and here, as you rightly pointed out. Well, in the case of a large conversion unit, this percentage increase is higher. We also pointed out the growing costs of cattle farming. More and more equipment is used in the production of feed, even in feeding. Technological progress is moving forward and therefore the costs of cattle farming are increasing. Such breeding is currently being operated mechanically, breeding is growing, especially dairy cattle. We thought this phrase should look like this. I think farmers will be happy with any support. I'm sure the senator could fill in the question and ask why, in this first case, we don't have 30%, either... but that's the budget opportunity right now. As I said earlier, we are looking at the situation on the fuel market for agricultural production. And as far as the agricultural census is concerned, I'm not prepared to answer that right now. If the senator agrees, I'll try to answer that question in writing. Thank you. [[Of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u228	Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u229	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you very warmly. I fully support this amendment and I am pleased that the government is supporting agriculture in this way. I have two questions that I had previously asked the Senator rapporteur in part. I would like to ask if, of course, the Minister has such knowledge as this has been going on systematically since 2015. Because this addition to fuel has been increasing. If the Minister could zoom in on that... And second question. How is it in other Member States of the European Union? If, of course, the Minister has that knowledge... I am curious how many other Member States are fueling, especially Western countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u230	As far as I'm concerned... may I, Mr. Marshal? As far as this growth is concerned, the first question is this: I've already talked about her. That the aid for the conversion unit, the large conversion unit of bovine animals, was not at the beginning of the implementation of this law, i.e. the refund of part of the excise duty. We introduced this after 2015. Of course, it was very well received. It was the right decision, because, as I said before, the cost of farming, milk production... the fuel consumption is very high and the costs are still rising. As I remember, these rates were raised every now and then, I know that the limits were lower, the subsidies to the cattle conversion unit were not at all, and up to a hectare it was around 80 l per 1 ha, recently, before the increases we started. And I think that's already under the rule of law and justice a second growth and a second such change. As far as other countries are concerned, Mr Chróścikowski replied, different mechanisms are being applied. In many countries it is used to dye fuel, it is a quite burdensome system, because you have to be technically prepared for it. We have adopted such a solution, which, well, seems easy for farmers, but also for the operation of the whole system. What is this return in individual countries, if this fuel is cheaper, I cannot say, I can only answer that there is a European Union directive that limits the possibilities of excise duty refund and applies to all the countries of the Community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u231	Thank you very much. Senator Bober's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u232	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have such a pragmatic question. Because we know very well that in order for a farmer to receive a tax refund, he must meet at least 2 requirements, so have a registered agricultural tractor and have an agricultural tax order and converted arable land. How much did it really cost the budget? Because the fact that we're planning... We know very well that not all farmers apply for excise duty refunds. What amount is actually spent from the state budget? Because I will make this amendment on 130 l/ha, knowing what the Minister said: that at the moment costs are going up rapidly as regards not only fuel but also fertilisers, many agricultural inputs. And indeed, this profitability will be so high... And by refunding excise duties, we are really protecting the consumer market, and we assure you that these articles don't really cost that much. Because that's what we need to be aware of. 'Cause if you were to actually make all the costs real... I know there used to be a colored fuel, this system didn't work, but then it was 100%. as much as the farmer bought, he used it and had already reduced it in excise duty. Right now there's, well, some compensation, of course, in a large dimension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u233	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, that raise we wrote down in this bill is going to cost us PLN 160 million. And the total amount of money earmarked for this purpose from the state budget is PLN 1 billion. [[What about last year? How much was physically spent?]] Well, $160 million less. [[But there was 100% of what was in the budget? 'Cause that's the thing, not everybody folds...]] Yeah, not everybody does. I don't know what percentage of farmers... But, I think, as far as I know, most farmers do. Somewhere out there, well, maybe some smaller farms don't, but most of them do. I'm gonna give you that answer because I can't exactly... I wouldn't want to make a mistake about how much has been paid exactly, how many farms use it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u235	Thank you, Minister. Because indeed, this increase was dictated, among others. the fact that there were resources left in the beginning. I just don't know how year by year, because the farms didn't apply because they didn't have a tractor or a VAT invoice... Well, because it looked different on the market, there were savings for it, and we could afford a physical increase in the number of litres per hectare.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u236	Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. You mentioned in your statement that this is such a proposal at the moment, but the government is looking at the situation on the fuel market and, depending on the developments, it will wonder what to do next. Because if price growth were maintained, the situation would be even more difficult. But theoretically prices could fall, of course, and such situations have happened before, that they were going up, and then they went back a little bit. Unfortunately, I have the impression that this is unlikely in the current situation, but of course this cannot be ruled out. Therefore, my question is: would it not be better, as the agricultural trade union, NSZZ Individual Farmers, would have suggested, to raise this factor immediately to 130 instead of 110? It is advocated in agricultural environments and in my district also. It's not just... I think there's pressure all over the country. I don't know how friends in their districts have farmers and farmers... And just so to put it this way, we could calm down the moods that the Minister knows better than I do at the moment in the rural environment are what they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u238	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u239	In addition to market analysis, Senator, we also need this financial enclosure, so to speak, and financial security. At the time when we were building this provision, we had this kind of budgetary security for this purpose, for the refund of excise duties. It was 160 million, that's all you could do right now. And the first thing we'd have to do. In addition to the conclusion that this phrase should be greater It's about finding resources. Let me remind you that in the next year's budget we have allocated considerable resources for other types of support, including. for agricultural insurance, for the agricultural guarantee fund This is PLN 3 billion, for agricultural insurance subsidies PLN 1 billion 420 million. They are simply not the only measures that are passed on to farmers. But if this is the case, the Ministry of Agriculture will present it at government meetings and look for resources for this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u240	Thank you very much. No more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: Thank you very much.]] I'm informing you that a government representative... [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, I'm just filling in, because we really need to...]] But, Senator, it's in the discussion, because now there's no room to supplement it. Now there was a round of questions. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister... Gentlemen of Ministers! I think that the direction of these questions, which have already been asked both to the rapporteur senator, Senator Chróścikowski of the Committee on Agriculture, and to Minister Bartosik, shows the dilemma that we are facing. And the dilemma is that the objective fact is to increase the cost of agricultural production, both material and human, i.e. and the ingredients needed to produce... Well, if the price of 1 t of saltpeters is approx. PLN 3 000, if the fuel price has increased by so much over the past weeks or months, if the cost of electricity increases if the cost of all services increases... I am not talking about building materials, which are also very important in agriculture, are a permanent element of the farmer's workshop, because it has economic buildings. All of this together makes moods really not the best. And I say it with all my responsibility as a senator of the Ciechanian land, the northern Mazowsze, which is an agricultural district. I listened carefully to this discussion. In my opinion, it is very good that the government monitors the situation in the countryside and the rising costs of agricultural production, but I am afraid that this will not happen... We are entering a phase of unpredictable economic phenomena, and I am talking about inflation, and I am talking about an increase in electricity and energy prices from other sources. All of this can cause a response to needs to be delayed. And that's why I think it would be worth listening to the farmers themselves. Senator Chróścikowski referred to the position of the trade union of individual farmers, the solidarity of agriculture; of course I also heard about these demands. It seems advisable for me to introduce an amendment to this law which would meet the expectations of these particular agricultural environments. And I think that since we have just voted on the Polish Load, which per balance will lead to an increase in budget revenue in the perspective of 2022, 2023, 2024 and subsequent, and other laws, I think there is a possibility that also the amount mentioned by the Minister, the amount of that 160 million, will be increased consistently in connection with the amendment I am proposing. I would like to ask the High House to support this proposal. And the amendment is made to the hands of the marshal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u242	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bober. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u243	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would just like to complete my statement and my colleagues. It's not like farmers are suddenly expecting something. I just want to remind you that there's so-called fuel price. part of the road tax, i.e. de facto for reconstruction. Tractors on public roads will use, I think, no more than 2% fuel and other fuels will actually be used within the household as well as in the fields. That's why it's possible to get to the big part... I fully support this funding. And I fully support the amendment tabled by Senator Jackowski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u244	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A lot has been said, but I want to say it again. Words of appreciation for the government's willingness to listen to farmers' voices and try to compensate, but - No, there's one. It's still not enough. And since, in principle, we have few instruments to support farmers under European Union law, this is probably the only way to think more about it. And here is a request to the ministers to examine this, also to the Minister of Finance, because this is also a matter of budget, since the amendment that was tabled by Senator Jackowski is an amendment that increases financial resources. And as long as this law is passed by us and by the Sejm, unless such a version of the amendment is rejected, it will be a rigid provision in the budget. And such measures will have to be found. 'Cause it's usually a stiff expense. That's why it's expected by farmers. I really understand that we want to secure more opportunities in various support measures, but that will mean more if farmers get in the measures we are applying for here than in measures that are secured for any compensation they may have. Because there will be a reserve and this reserve may be used or unused. Surely many farmers will say: this is real aid that reduces production costs and we do not need to raise product prices for consumers. Because eventually someone has to pay for it. Hence, we really expect as farmers that a decision will be taken at the moment. We do not expect that in time there will be an attempt to return to our House and to conclude. If that's possible... I just want to point out that the experts have repeatedly counted how much per hectare. The Institute of Agricultural Economics and Food Economy confirmed this data. For many years there was a discussion, whether 125 or 130 or 118, and everyone tried to prove it differently. But today, since experts are calculating that this much fuel is being consumed, it really should have been... Well, you could say a few more pennies. You can still raise it, because there is a refund of excise duty, by these 5 or 7 gr s, I find it difficult to calculate exactly. There'd be a possibility. But we're not talking about this element anymore, we're talking about raising excise duty, we're talking about quantity... It's about energy consumption, which we tractors, harvesters... Today there is more and more precision agriculture, more and more machines... It's not what it was before. You used to drive less tractors. Now really, most people's work is replaced by the work of tractors, machines, devices that serve farmers. Hence my request, as chairman of the agricultural committee, as well as as as a representative of agricultural solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u246	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden and Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would also like to inform you that Senator Bury and Senator Jackowski have submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u247	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At the moment, we cannot support these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u248	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the law on countering unfair exploitation of the advantage in trade in agricultural and food products. The text of the Act is contained in print No 516 and the report of the Commission In print No 516 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Jack Bogucki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 1 October this year. The Sejm passed a law against unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products. This law involves the implementation of the provisions introduced at European Union level concerning the exploitation of unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage. The European Commission noted that this advantage is used not only in Poland, but in many countries of the European Union, that farmers are in a worse market situation, in a worse situation than large buyers, traders and processors of agri-food products. Poland precedes the European Commission in this respect, it precedes the European Union, because already in 2016 regulations of this kind were adopted in Poland. In many cases, the adoption of these provisions has helped entrepreneurs, mainly commercial companies, to change their policies. In general, the provisions were to be dissuasive. But there were also cases where the Consumer Protection and Competition Office applied penalties of up to tens of millions to the largest traders of agri-food products in Poland. This shows that the problem really is, exists and requires a solution. In view of the provisions introduced at European Union level, it was necessary to amend the existing rules and adapt them to the rules introduced at EU level, but also to allow Poland, like other countries, to apply further solutions if they have already been applied in the country in question. In this Act It was a government project. Experience has been used to date, including those resulting from the implementation of relevant EU legislation. Several changes have been made to the existing rules, including: to extend the definition of agricultural and food products, to extend the definition of buyer, to define unfair practices. We're in this first project. I'm saying we should, because I had the privilege of working on this first project, still in the agricultural department. We have defined these rules in a very general way, considering that at that stage such very restrictive definition and cataloguing could in many cases lead to the construction of appropriate contracts or contracts between businesses and farmers. Here these practices have been more defined. There has also been a definition of the gap in potential differences. The Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation considered this project on 19 October. 7 amendments were accepted to the draft, also clarifying those entries that appeared in the Act... Excuse me, 8 amendments, along with an amendment concerning the amendment regarding the date of entry into force of the Act. The committees are asking for the bill to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u250	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u251	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, you said in your report that the novel extends the definition of agricultural and food products. I would like to ask: was there any mention at the committee's meeting of which agricultural and food products would include this definition?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u252	At the committee meeting, we did not discuss specific provisions in detail. As regards the extension of the definition, it is the products mentioned in the relevant EU legislation, processed, intended for consumption, and so far, in the existing legislation, we have talked about agricultural raw materials.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u253	Mr. Marshal, if I may ask you a second question... The impact assessment states that 17 unfair practices have been defined in the framework of this amendment. And here is the information that 11 practices will be strictly prohibited, and 6 practices will be allowed, provided that they have been clearly, unambiguously agreed in the contract between the buyer and the supplier prior to their application. I would like to ask if it was mentioned at the committee meeting about what these practices are prohibited and which are allowed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u254	At the committee meeting, we did not discuss these practices in detail. Of course, in the draft law they are enumerated enumeratively, except that in the relevant provision there is a provision So it is not completely closed because, as I said before, when we passed the first law, we were aware that each seal is necessary, necessary and brings its effects, but also causes the search for other ways of avoiding these records. So you can't treat this catalog as completely closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u255	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: Yes, Mr. Marshal, if I may.]] You're welcome. Let's go to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u256	If I may, it's from here this time, because I'm gonna be helping myself later with the clues of the representatives of the Competition Office and... [[Of course, if you're more comfortable, Minister.]] If you'll allow the marshal... [[There you go.]] Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The project, as has already been said, aims to implement into the national legal order the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union 2019/633 on unfair commercial practices between traders in the supply chain of agricultural and food products. It should be noted that in Poland since 2017 there have been provisions to prevent unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products. Poland as one of the first Member States introduced such legislation before regulations were adopted at EU level. In view of the fact that Directive 2019/633 introduces provisions outside the scope of the current law, it has been decided to draw up a new law, but with the same title in relation to the existing legislation. The extension of the definition of agricultural and food products will also allow for an examination of the accounts relating to buying-in, inter alia. feed, live animals, seeds and oil fruits. The definition of the buyer, which may also be a public body, has also changed. The High Izbo, the project defines 16 unfair practices in the explanatory memorandum, refers to 17, but during the consultation 1 of them has been removed, including 10 practices that are strictly prohibited, and 6 practices that are permitted, provided that they have been clearly agreed clearly in the contract between the buyer and the supplier prior to their application. According to the law, the competent authority for practices involving unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage is, as so far, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection in the current law. The provisions of the proposed law allow proceedings to be conducted by the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection not only in the case of unfair practices indicated directly in the Act, but also in situations where an identified practice which has a bearing on the use of a contractual advantage is contrary to good practices and threatens or infringes the essential interests of the other party. Anonymity of the notifier is ensured in the proceedings. The Act sets out penalties for unfair practices using a contractual advantage, for obstructing proceedings and for not taking a decision imposing a penalty. The Directive introduces a common minimum framework within the European Union to combat unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. The proposed law introduces provisions that go beyond the scope of the Directive, i.e. additional, prohibited, unfair practice, i.e. an unjustified reduction in claims on the delivery of products after their adoption, in particular as a result of a request for a discount. The protection also applies to buyers, as is the case in the current legislation. Unfair commercial practice is also an act contrary to good customs which threatens or infringes the essential interests of the other party. The adoption of a new law against unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in trade in agricultural and food products will provide more certainty for suppliers of agricultural and food products on the market and the possibility of selling their products on partner terms. High Izbo, these practices, as I said, are 16. 10 of them are those which absolutely cannot be used, these are so-called. black practices and 6 are those permitted provided that they are clearly and unambiguously agreed between the buyer and the supplier prior to their use. I ask you to accept the proposed solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u257	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski, then Mr. Senator Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u258	I have a brief question, Mr. Marshal. Minister, which of the laws, which we repeal by this law, is the law being introduced, I would call it more harsh, which means that it will be better to protect, for example, individual farmers?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our law has solved many problems, but this law implements the EU directive and gives the UOKiK controller more instruments to control when it comes to the application of these unfair practices. There is simply more in this new law of these instruments and possibilities. So, in answer to this question in detail, I'm going to say that this law gives more possibilities, it's wider.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u260	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u261	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, thank you, because in principle you have answered the 2 questions that I had previously asked the rapporteur, namely to extend the definition of agricultural products and to define unfair practices. But I'd like to ask, just out of curiosity... The project was very widely consulted, I saw that it was sent for consultation up to 95 entities. Which of the unfair practices was withdrawn and which of the parties requested it? And one more question. I see that the novel provides for the introduction of the so-called procedure. voluntary submission to a monetary penalty. In the event of a Party's consent to the voluntary submission of a penalty, the penalty may be reduced by no more than 50%. I would like to ask if there have been such situations before, that an entity wanted to be punished voluntarily. Were there practical situations like this?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u262	The need to eliminate this unfair practice came from consultations. This was not even a proposal from either party, but during the consultation it was decided and it was the government's initiative to decide that this practice should be eliminated. And as for the second question, it's a matter of payment deadlines... [[Voice from the room: No, no, lower...]] Excuse me, I missed that question. Yes, the second question was to reduce the penalty by 50%. [[The question of voluntary surrender. Were there in practice such situations that an entity surrendered...]] This is a new solution. It wasn't used before, we're introducing it now. [[Yeah, yeah, I understand it wasn't used before, but it's coming from something. Did any of the entities who received such punishment want to surrender, for example? voluntarily... well, that's where the solution came from, too.]] This solution is transferred from the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection, and we have benefited from this solution here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u263	Thank you very much. I don't see anyone willing to ask any more questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Gromko, Komarnicki and Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forestry Lands. The text of the Act is contained in print No 537, and the report of the Commission In print No 537 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Richard Bober, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, I would like to propose an amendment to the law on the protection of agricultural and forestry land. This law clarifies, clarifies what a farm is, what a habitat is, but above all it allows a farmer who has abandoned agricultural activities to move to non-agricultural activities in the habitat. This law allows the farmer to build a new facility with a total area of not more than 500 m2, as well as to upgrade it to existing buildings. I am aware that this law will operate to a limited extent and few farmers will undertake this activity, but the incentive is. I hope they benefit from this because the procedure is actually simplified. Only a notification to the old-fashioned and on the basis of a notification to undertake non-agricultural activities in its habitat is required. In this habitat can also operate the people closest to the farmer who are insured in KRUS, i.e. the wife and children. The Commission adopted two legislative amendments at its meeting and I will now submit amendments to them in a way that is more specific. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 2 would be a new wording, so that the farmer would simply notify, notify the old lady in the application and submit the application 30 days before the planned start of business, so that it would be combined. In the previous record it was such that it first applied for an intention and then submitted a second application for the activity of the strict sense. The next amendment is really saying that... she clarifies when the activity not declared to the old age is punishable. In the previous statement, the failure to report had already resulted in a penalty being imposed. It's more civilized right now. The amendment makes it clear that if someone takes up an activity but does not submit an appropriate proposal, it is only then punishable. Otherwise, we would be punishing for something that a farmer doesn't actually do yet because he hasn't started non-agricultural activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u265	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Swede. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u266	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a quick question. I understand that this change occurred upon request, but I do not know at whose request. The Commission? Government? Does it show that farmers have applied for such changes? And were there any analyses? How many of these things have been like this before? You said to the senator that to a limited extent... I get it. But how many situations were there?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u267	Well, of course farmers do non-agricultural activities. There are measures to make this possible, whether within local action groups or in other projects where funding is also received. But in fact, farms are losing. And thankfully, farmers want to engage in non-agricultural activities, non-agricultural activities. These are really very important activities, whether in terms of services or in terms of processing. After all, there are various incentives. I'm talking about MOL, I'm talking about retail, I'm talking about selling directly from the farm. And it is often the case that in order to prepare the products in question, you need to use existing objects for this, as well as build new ones. So that we don't go through the whole procedure... Under normal conditions, the procedure for non-agricultural activities on agricultural land requires them to be landed. Here is this simplified mode, it is treated as a habitat. So if a farmer wants to build a habitat on his own land, he doesn't have to. Whatever the land class is, go through the procedures for de-landing the land. With appropriate permits, it can build facilities that will serve agricultural production and, from that point on, non-agricultural activities at a given location without a landing procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u268	Thank you very much. [[Could I ask you a question?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u269	Mr. Senator, was it said at the committee's meeting that... because in the opinion of the Legal Office I found such information that the Act also provides for the way in which non-agricultural activities are carried out in a building covered by the housing structure, as well as a penalty of 500 to 30 thousand PLN for failure to notify the competent Chief of the intention to carry out in the building of a non-hazard activity other than that of the yard. What is the procedure for granting these penalties?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u270	It is this amendment or self-correction which has been agreed with the Ministry of Agriculture at the level of legislators that prevents this situation. The farmer will be punished when he takes up non-agricultural activities and does not report it to the old-fashioned. On the other hand, that record you're talking about was so imprecise that he let you impose a penalty... All you had to do was notify you of your willingness to do business and there was already grounds for punishment if such a request had not been received. Well, it was just underprecise, and at the moment it's strictly defined. It is known when the farmer is being punished.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u271	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Jarosław Sachajko was authorised to present the position of the applicants during parliamentary work. Does the applicant's representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? But there isn't a Member here. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Simon Giżyński: Yes.]] You're welcome. I invite Minister Simon Giżyński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u272	Dear Marshal, High Senate! While agreeing with most of the conclusions and opinions of the rapporteur, I would nevertheless like to clarify the main points of the bill, which, of course, have the approval of the government, and present the development of this acceptance, which concerns the intention to adopt the law in the form in which it is written. Well, the law does not include its benefit to a farmer who has abandoned production, on the contrary It is a condition for obtaining benefits and relief. The farmer must continue to produce on his land, grow it. In a different situation, as the law treats it, it is simply impossible. It is not that a farmer can build a house under, again, the benefits of this law. This situation, which is described, i.e. the abolition of the requirement to pay charges, the levy on the exclusion of agricultural land in the case of carrying out economic activity in housing buildings, puts a dot over The record applies only to buildings, and these buildings are very limited by the area, because it concerns buildings up to 0,05 ha, i.e. 500 m2. Only within these buildings may an economic activity other than agricultural activities be carried out. This is the whole point of this law, which is, of course, social, beneficial to farmers, because it is about them being able to do their agricultural activities through various minor activities within these buildings with a surface area. I'm telling you again. 500 m2 and not a meter more... So this is a very clear restriction, introduced so that the arable land does not disappear, so that we do not deprive the whole nation of this strength, which is food independence, and it is only possible if we protect the Polish land and its farming area. And this bill ensures it. Such information was provided during the discussion, there were reservations, questions and pretensions that it was a bill designed for developers. I smiled involuntarily, I shook my shoulders because... well, where the developer will pack with the investment, when, first, it concerns a plot of 500 m2, and secondly, this plot is simply built, there are buildings. So here the suspicion of this law, which is, by the way, not so much consulted, because it is a parliamentary project, how excellent, can you say, called, called... I don't want to use the word "forced" here, because it would be too much, but it's simply confounded with the expectations of farmers. Yes, we agree to this and give the opportunity to run a small business, so that certain, also not high amounts, will feed the farmer's budget. All of this is compatible with the intention, i.e. the farmer's acquisition of additional quotas, and at the same time, as I stress, the continued cultivation of the land, with the highest retention, which also exists in the farmer's motivation system. That's it. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u273	Thank you. Minister, I'd like you to stay at the podium for a moment. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Swede, Mr. Senator Czerwiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u274	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would just like you to address the issue of these penalties and the amendments of Senator Bober.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u275	Thank you kindly. Here, too, I explain with confidence and reliability that this is a reference to the Code of Administrative Law and it is an appeal, and the Code of Administrative Law essentially takes this issue into account. It creates such a situation that it allows, or even in some way Although it may not be a precise legal term, it forces whether it gives some clarity about the non-imposition of the penalty, the withdrawal of the penalty, or a very important relief of the penalty. So that it's not mandatory, there's no stakes here that it has to happen like this. On the contrary, there is a kind of protection in normal, lifelike situations when there has been negligence and not a conscious crime. It is clearly designed so that these penalties are not unduly imposed or that they are not imposed, therefore they apply here, in line with the intentions of the applicants and the government, the provisions of the Code of Administrative Law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u277	Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! The first point: earlier, the concept of habitat appeared here. I'll admit that I can't find that concept and see if there's really a concept of habitat in this law. Because what else is a enclosure, and what else is a habitat. That's the first line. Second: whether there is a contradiction between the new or added definition of housing and the entitlement you give in Article. 12b? Since the enclosure is a building of the farmhouse and it is clearly indicated here that only agricultural machinery is used. And you're giving us the possibility to exclude part of the land from a sub-production other than agriculture, 30%, I'm guessing. Aren't these two definitions contradictory?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u278	They're not contradictory, Mr. Senator, because it's about disabling not land, just buildings, that amount in square meters, i.e. 500, which is what I'm talking about here. So there's no contradiction here. Here is the full precision and very clearly realized intention, is the compatibility of the provisions with the intentions that I have presented to you here, as records just as inviolable In the sense of resisting accusations, pretensions, conceptual layer, formal layer of the law. And the habitat is just land. There is also no contradiction between the habitat and the enclosure, because it is within the habitat, which here the provisions of the law very clearly testify. And the exemption does not apply to any square meter of land, but only to buildings.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u279	Then I'll just ask you one more question, Mr. Marshal. Is the concept of habitat even in this law? That's what I'm talking about. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Simon Giżyński: Please?]] Is the concept of habitat even in this law? Because you're operating with this concept, but as I say, I didn't find it... Perhaps it's somewhere in the original text. In any case, it is certainly not in the vocabulary or in the terms added to the vocabulary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u280	Mr. Senator, it didn't turn up because it's just not needed. There's obvious consistency here. We know what a habitat is, so there's no need for such a thing to be here, because it would bring in the best evidence of it is our apparent polemics. Some unnecessary categories which, if introduced, result in illegibility of the record or provoke doubts that should not be articled. The recordings that have been presented here do not lead to any doubts, because they are dictionaryly unambiguous, conceptually completely coherent and consistent.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u281	Thank you, Minister. That was the last question. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Simon Giżyński: Thank you kindly.]] Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Gorgon-Komor, Gromko, Godyla, Tyszkiewicz submitted their speeches to the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing, Senator Bober. The discussion is closed. Does the government representative want to comment on the legislative proposal that has been put forward? Minister, do you wish to comment on Senator Bober's legislative proposal? It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. But I think you've already applied, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u282	I mean, the situation is that I've made my point. The way we needed it from our point of view. And the amendments that the High Senate has tabled, we approve. They are legislative in nature, amending and improving the readability of the record. And as such we accept them from the Senate and we will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u283	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the law on amending the law of the Hunting Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 533, and the committee's report In print No 533 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Joint Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment the work of these committees on the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law. This amendment is very short. I hope that we will have a general amendment of the law on hunting as soon as possible due to the fact that this law was seriously damaged in 2018. I would add that the initiative of this amendment came out of the Senate and is the result of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Act adapts the system of law to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 8 May 2019. The Constitutional Tribunal ruled that Article. 48 point 3 of the Hunting Law of 13 October 1995, in so far as it provides as a result of refusing to permit the construction of equipment or the performance of procedures to prevent damage, the exemption of the tenant or the manager of the Hunting District from liability for hunting damages which are not due to such refusal is incompatible with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions. In order to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, the law extends the right to compensation for hunting damages to cases in which the person seeking compensation refused to accept the construction of the equipment or to carry out procedures to prevent damage if such damage was not caused by the refusal of consent. In addition, the Act provides that a new regulation will apply to cases for compensation of hunting damages which have been initiated and have not been completed before the entry into force of the Act in question. I would add that neither the Legislative Office nor the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Agriculture had any objection to the proposed amendment. I would like to mention to the High House the discussion that has taken place. A very substantive discussion, showing a lot of important issues that concern hunters and this hunting world. I will return to what is wrong with the records that were introduced in 2018. The record which in my opinion caused the greatest damage in the environment at that time was the provision to remove young people from participating in hunting work, prohibiting their participation in hunting, established the limit of the age of 18. We are all aware today that a young man who is 18 years old is usually attached to something else, not in his mind to love nature, to carry out the difficult work that hunters do. Also, training of wild game, i.e. dogs, birds, on which they should be trained, was banned, only the possibility of training on atraps was introduced. These bad records were also taken from the self-government of the Polish Association of Hunters. District hunting councils have been removed and, worst of all, although the hunting organisation is a non-governmental, social organisation, the head of this organisation is elected by the Minister. I believe that this makes the moods in the hunting environment, among hunters, among the authorities of the Polish Hunting Union not the best and also for this reason it is necessary to consider and to introduce as soon as possible such records as will heal this situation. The discussion also highlighted the fundamental problem of Polish hunting, i.e. compensation. Today, the entire burden of responsibility for hunting damages is borne by the Polish Hunter Union, i.e. hunters. But this situation does not guarantee that all farmers' claims will be paid satisfactorily. Just these measures The entire compensation system is gone today. Because if we count the actions that hunters carry out, and the game they've acquired, and we count it to the amounts that are derived from them by hunting wheels, it's clearly not a large pool of funds to share. Let me remind you that according to the laws in force for all carcases of animals And the animals, I'll remind you, are the property of the State Treasury. That are obtained by hunters, even if they are purchased for their own use, hunters must pay. In public space, this truth often escapes. Not everyone knows this, so I would like to stress that every game acquired by a hunter is either returned to a buying point and later placed on the consumer market, or purchased at such prices as are currently in force on the market for each kilogram of game obtained. And that, of course, pays compensation later. But, as I said before, this pot is often not enough to cover full compensation and there are conflicts between hunters and farmers. That is why this discussion stressed the need to step in and finance this issue, so that it would simply be a problem Somehow we can do it, because there's no other solution. Finally, I would also like to stress that it has been emphasised that society has finally appreciated the hunters, their hard work, that they spend their time, and also money, because they lead the shootings of animals, they lead a rational hunting economy, and unfortunately they do not have the resources, but cover these costs. And if they didn't, we're all fully aware of what would happen to us today. It's enough for hunters to stop their hunting business for at least five years, and then, just like we have 200,000 boars today, in five years, we'd have 2 million or 2.5 million of them. And today we see that wild boars appear on the corners of cities often, and in five years they may be marching on Marshal's Street, and I think we do not want to let that happen. And you have to do everything to simply create conditions for decent work for a hunter and just to make sure that Polish hunting, which has always been the role model in history in Europe, continues in this state, and also secures what is most important. Because today, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to imagine a well-functioning agriculture, which, as we stress, is the main branch of our national economy, without a good correlation with hunters. Because if hunters stopped, as I said, doing business, running a proper hunting economy, farmers would, unfortunately, not be able to cope with the damage. I would like to ask the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u285	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Yes.]] Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u286	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I fully share what you said. I come from areas where there are small towns, and indeed, we see wild boars already in small cities and growing. Even recently, there have been some unpleasant situations, because the entire pack of wild boars were entering the cities. But I'd like to ask you a question directly about the bill. I have information that the law extends the right to compensation for hunting damages also to cases in which the claimer refused to allow the construction of equipment to prevent damage. I have a question: were there any analyses at the committee meeting, how many such cases, these damages? Well, because it's known that there will be more compensation here that hunters will pay.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u287	Such detailed analyses were not considered at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u288	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the Senate. Senator Adam Szejnfeld has been authorized to present the position of the applicants during parliamentary work. Does the applicant's representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill was presented here by the rapporteur with a large extension of this to the subject of hunting, and it is very right, because this is an important issue in Poland today, and probably not only, underestimated, very often misunderstood. But I would argue that this law is not about hunting, it is about civil rights, property rights, rights and values that result from the Constitution. That is why the Legislative Commission has dealt with this law, because it is precisely the Constitutional Tribunal that the law in this part which was mentioned and which was well presented by the rapporteur's senator is incompatible with the Constitution. It violates the property rights of Polish citizens, landowners on the basis of which Or parts, or whole, are set up hunting circuits. And for this reason, in order to eliminate the conflict of law in the form of a law with the basic law, with the Constitution, the Legislative Commission has made these amendments, correcting the provisions. In my opinion, in the Senate's assessment earlier. and now this has been confirmed by the Sejm, which our bill, our project has passed, we have made these changes rightly. In response to the expectations of my fellow senators, I will not go into details, especially since my exquisite predecessor has presented the bill very well, so if you allow me, I will not repeat all these explanations. [[I'll allow it.]] Thank you kindly. In conclusion, I will only express two hopes. The first, fundamental, is related to the idea of this law. Namely, the Polish legislator will be better and better, more and more closely applied to the process of law-making so that in the future the Constitutional Tribunal does not have work related to establishing or investigating whether the law that we create is in accordance with the basic law or not. And the second hope is precisely the one that appeared between the lines in the speech of the rapporteur's senator, so the point is that also the right law, the law on hunting, and in general the issue of hunting very seriously in Poland. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u290	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may report from a place of no more than one minute's duration to the authorised representative of applicants related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Swede? [[No.]] No. Thank you. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Hello, Mr Edward Siarka, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, representative of the government for forestry and hunting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to say that, indeed, as the senators have discussed here, the whole issue of hunting, contrary to appearances, is at the moment a very serious challenge for all of us, especially as regards compensation for damage caused by wild game. Because, on the one hand, we have a lot of environments that are against hunting, and on the other hand, we have very serious challenges that we face, especially for farmers, who are suffering real damage as a result of the fact that in some places we have a very large number of wild game that can cause damage going into thousands and really in many thousands of zlotys. We often talk about damage in areas that are estimated at 20, 30 and sometimes and 100,000 PLN. That's a lot of damage. At the moment, we are facing a very big challenge as to how to regulate this issue at all. There's a kind of, I'd say, even a dispute that results from the fact that it can't be done. Also in my opinion, as a representative of the Government for Forestry and Hunting, solve without the financial involvement of the State. It is indeed today, as the rapporteur said, that the damage is paid only from those amounts which are obtained from the sale of carcases obtained from hunting activities. Annually this is about PLN 100 million. This is different in various years, but this is the amount of PLN 80.100 million. Meanwhile, we have such situations that in order to fully meet these agricultural needs or to pay the damage in a satisfactory way to farmers, today hunters often they simply conclude simple agreements with farmers because they cannot pay higher compensation because the wheel does not have such funds. And farmers often understand that. If we look at the data, please pay attention. I've already quoted it many times in several places. For the hunting season 2019/2020 we generally valued more than 60 000 damages, and such conflict situations in which it was necessary to reach the second instance, i.e. those were settlements at the level of the State Forests, were 1 000 490. So for over 60,000 damages, 1 thousand 490 were conflict situations, but in the end, only 48 cases went to court, so, you could say, a small fraction. But that doesn't mean it's all been done right here. That means it's just 99%. The hard work of hunters has brought us to an agreement with farmers. But that doesn't translate into financial satisfaction. Like I said, these injuries are often very, very, very big. And that's a big challenge for us. And this solution that we're talking about today is the solution that we as the Ministry of Climate and Environment... the hunter environment doesn't protest either, because the Court found that the existence of a hunting device in a given area or the absence of it has nothing to do with the damage. Well, it's hard to imagine that one amphibian hunting device is enough to keep or secure 100 hectares of corn. That's not gonna happen, is it? So it was right to see the Court that there is no causal link here. This compensation is therefore due to the farmer and, with the current wording of the Article. Forty-eight... 48 cases where the farmer is not entitled to compensation have been mentioned. And this point 3 said that the owner of damaged crops or agricultural crops, who refused to allow the management of the hunting circuit to make such equipment, simply should not be compensated. Therefore, in the Senate and in the Seym Also on the government's side, there was full agreement that these claims should be recognised. And that's why we think this solution is good. Now we're going to have to work hard on hunting law. It will also be difficult because the subject is touchy from the social point of view. Therefore, we are currently preparing such a project in the Ministry. It will also include new compensation arrangements. But we have a big challenge ahead of us. Will the State Treasury want to participate in the payment of compensation costs? I stress once again that my experience, which I have also collected as a parliamentarians, shows that we will not be able to solve this problem well without the participation of the state budget in the cost of compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u292	Thank you, Minister. Right now, senators can... I'm gonna need you to stay on the stand for a little while longer, 'cause I can see there's gonna be questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Błaszczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u293	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you mentioned the issue. There were 1,400 cases that were investigated, and some of them went to court. Do you have the Minister's knowledge, or does it grow? And if so, at what rate? Is there more problematic matters every year, or has it stabilised in some way? I'm asking about those cases that need to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u294	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! That's actually an interesting question. We analyze these data and it turns out that each year they are actually similar. And it's also interesting that whether we estimated 60,000 damage or 40,000 damage, it always turned out that about the same number of cases were brought to second instance. These numbers are around 1,000 500. Well, there were never more cases. We may not be able to reach far back in terms of statistics, but we have never exceeded the level of about 50 cases that have gone directly to the courts. And in order to be able to define all these issues even more precisely, in order to be able to answer questions more precisely, we are preparing at this moment to change the protocol related to the assessment of damage. Once this protocol is in place, we will be able to receive more precise data, such as whether the farmer has consented to the construction of the equipment and the action to deter wild game or not. And then we'll know what the scale of this phenomenon is. Besides, this whole process requires some thought, because we have new technical possibilities that allow us to estimate the damage much more precisely than it used to be there, ten years ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u295	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej. In remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u296	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm gonna start with some reservations. I've never hunted, I haven't even been a part of the hunt as a spectator, and I have a very large distance to hunt, but I know that this issue must be handled wisely. I would like to thank both Senator Łyczak and Senator Szejnfeld for this initiative, and in particular I would like to thank Senator Szejnfeld for these explanations and arguments, for highlighting this ruling of the Constitutional Court and for stressing that in this area we are also dealing with human rights and the issue of independence from the authorities of the state and local government of the union, as well as the issue of compensation problems. And in fact, that bill, that's what I emphasized at the time, even though it's not the area I'm dealing with... In any case, I emphasized that if we were talking about the self-government of different relationships, that law also in relation to a relationship that is not close to me, it acted so that it killed its self-government. Unfortunately, it was brought to its knees and thoughtlessly, and the judgment of the Constitutional Court is very right to expose it. This is the best example of how the legislative process should not be carried out. And I hope that farmers, hunters who listen to us, on this example, can see and understand what we, lawyers think, how justice reforms are being carried out and how self-government is being violated in other areas. If you understand and feel it, because I am convinced about it, how unwisely certain rules have been violated, which have been in force for many years in this area, then you can understand what others felt when independence was broken in other areas. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u297	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Golba, Bladder, Godyla, Komarnicki and Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? I take it you didn't. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the Act on guaranteed housing credit. The text of the Act is contained in print No 515 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 515 A and 515 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Richard Śvilski, to submit a report to the committee, including on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure. This is a summary report.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In line with the words of the Marshal, I will try to present the elements that were taken in the debate during the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure. The main principles of the law, which we are currently discussing, were presented by the applicants. The applicant claimed that the law actually combines elements of family policy and housing development. Allow me to present in short sentences what this law defines. It sets out the terms and conditions for the granting of guaranteed housing loans, the terms and conditions for the granting by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego of a guarantee of repayment of part of guaranteed housing loans and the source and method of financing of BGK's expenditure related to guaranteed housing loans. The Act specifies that the guaranteed credit may be granted for the purchase of a residential and family-owned house, for the construction of a building or for the construction of a single-family house. The fact that the Sejm has adopted amendments to the law was also discussed. This amendment extends the scope of granting guaranteed credit to cover expenses related to the completion of a residential or single-family home. I must point out here that during the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and during the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, this element triggered some kind of discussion, because this amendment was introduced in the Sejm between first and second readings. Therefore, questions were raised as to whether the amendment was outside the material scope of the government project. Well, it wasn't considered in three readings. That was the first aspect. The second aspect, which was raised by the members of the committee, was related to what it means and what is the conversion factor of the replacement cost of 1 m2 referred to in the Act. Of course, it has to do with the price of the place. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure also discussed the period of repayment of the guaranteed loan. I would like to inform you that during the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, the senators requested the adoption of the Act by the High Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u299	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u300	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I would like to ask you what will be the limit on the state budget allocated to this government housing fund. Was that mentioned at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u301	The elements concerning the limits are actually in the bill, as the senator says. Let me find this record because these values are set... Oh, I've found it. In 2022 PLN 100 million, in 2023 PLN 200 million, in 2024 PLN 500 million. And so it grows by 2032, up to over 2 billion, up to 2 billion 150 million. That's the bill we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u302	Thank you very much. No further questions. The project was brought in by the government. Allow me at this moment to welcome the representative of the Minister of Development and Technology, the Secretary of State, Mr Piotr Uściński. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u303	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today I am very pleased to present a law related to the Polish Ład, a law guaranteeing my own contribution to housing loans. This law meets the expectations of Polish families, but not only, because lonely people will also be able to benefit from this solution. It is about families who already have the credit capacity, thanks to the policy of the Law and Justice Government, more and more Poles can afford to buy their own apartment, their earnings are sufficient, the earnings that have been growing in recent years, and it is definitely enough to have this so-called. credit rating But they don't have their own contribution yet. And such families are faced with a dilemma, whether they could already buy their own four corners, their own roof over their heads, their own apartment or build their first house. 'Cause it's about those who don't have a home yet. If they have to wait a few years and save money for their own contribution. Often this expectation involves a decision to postpone family plans, family plans and plans for having first or subsequent children. We want to help such families, we want them not to postpone such plans, so that children in Poland are born and that Polish families can grow and have their own homes or apartments. Therefore, we propose in this Act that instead of the bank's own contribution, the BGK guarantee could be used. The maximum amount of the guarantee is PLN 100 000 and a maximum of 20% of the amount of the loan. With this guarantee there is a small, very small commission of 1% the amount guaranteed and payable only once. So from the amount of PLN 100,000 will be a maximum of PLN 1 thousand commission, if this amount is smaller, the commission will be respectively smaller. In this way Polish families will be able to benefit and finance 100% the purchase of an apartment with its finishing or construction or the purchase of a single-family house. Ladies and gentlemen, what else? There is still a very important solution in this law that links housing policy with family policies. Well, family payments will be possible. The person or family who will take such a loan... The moment the next children are born in the family, the second or third children, or the next children in the family, will be paid out. BGK will pay for the second child in the family 20 thousand PLN, for the third, fourth and subsequent 60,000 PLN each from the basic amount of the loan. So what we're hoping for is... And it will be the main expenditure from the State Treasury, the expenditure from the budget related to the implementation of this law, precisely those family payments. We hope that these limits will actually be used and that these children will actually be born in Poland and that Polish families will benefit from family payments. One more thing I may have forgot to mention, and it is worth mentioning. The solution is intended not only for those who do not have their own apartment yet, but also for families who raise children on a small scale. If someone in a single, say, under 50 m2 raises two children, he will be able to take this credit with his own guaranteed contribution to buy himself a bigger apartment, enlarge this apartment. The limit for a family with three children is 75 m2, with four children 90 m2, for more children There's no limit anymore. For the extension of the meter, so that families can live in better conditions, this credit will also be granted. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to thank the High Senate, the committees, for supporting the adoption of this law without amendment. I would also ask you to support this law in the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u304	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. The matter is quite clear and worthy of support, and it will probably be so. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Svilski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Minister's statement and a little bit of Mr. Marshal provoked me to visit here and to make a short speech. Because it would seem that, as the Marshal said, the bill is worthy of leaning over it and accepting it, but it also needs to be made clear and clear that the issues of loan guarantees, which are included and described in this Act, will not solve any problems of housing or family policy. Me right now. I ask myself the basic question: is this the only tool we could use when talking about housing policy? 'Cause I'm about to get to pro-family politics. I mean, for example, why until today the government does not freeze the resources, land and land of the National Centre for Agricultural Support, National Property Resources or, for example, the Treasury. These elements are not regulated in any way and, so it is called, unliberalised. One would like to say: why are we not serving a fishing rod, but we are going into this element, which in recent years, in fact, has not worked out? What do I mean? You know very well that the entire policy related to the provision of 500+ is today an expense of PLN 160 billion, yes, 160 billion PLN. You probably know the results that the Central Statistical Office gave today. If any of you don't know, I'll let you remind me. In September, 31,000 100 children were born. A year ago at this time, it was 32,000 800. 34,000 400 people died a year ago 34,000 300. The total births of the last 12 months are 334,000 600 people. The sum of deaths at that time is 538,000. So the 12-month demographic deficit is 204 grand. The demographic crisis is getting worse. So I do not think that the guarantee of repayment of the loan is a tool that this policy, let's call it, a family-friendly one in some way will stimulate. That's one thing. Secondly, and I think that's worth saying at this point, too. We are again talking about Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, just like yesterday here in the High Senate. Again, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego becomes this non-budget element, operating outside the budget, where further expenditure will be generated. Senator Swede asked me during the first part of our conversation what kind of money it would be. There's gonna be a lot of money prepared for this. But in this situation I ask myself whether someone who does not have own contribution and who will have a guaranteed loan of up to PLN 100,000 will pay back the rest of this loan for the purchase of this apartment. Of course, depending on where this apartment can be purchased, it could be 300 or 400 thousand zlotys. So I'm going to ask a paradoxical question: aren't we doing this kind of harm to people? I mean, harm in the sense that I don't know if someone who literally reads this bill will understand it to the end. And I wouldn't want this bill to be part of a later spiral of our citizens' problems. I therefore appeal to the Government, the Minister, to you, by presenting this law, by communicating it, also to talk about the consequences, the obligations that will later rest on the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u306	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Aleksander Pociej will speak remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Minister, this is a very good speech. And I have to tell you that the last one, with such a beautiful professional propagandaist's emotion, I listened in the 1970s. Honestly, you should be reading, in my opinion, those years of film chronicles. But I expected something more concrete today. The Lord merely limited himself to the fact that in some magical way childhood will improve. And this admiration of yours on this subject, as this will help the children, is how I compare it to the delight when we introduced 500+. A very good program, only, as we heard a second ago, and this is absolutely true data, not much came out of it. And I hope that we will have the opportunity in a few years to verify the programme discussed here, and I very much hope that you will come out of it with a defensive hand and that this program will actually lead to the fact that the Polish society does not go any further, but is developing. 'Cause so far, the first show doesn't show much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u308	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Golba, Bubbles, Gorgon-Komor, Gromko and Durlak have made their speeches in the debate on the minutes, and you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Jan Filip Libicki. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. Would the Minister like to comment on the proposals put forward?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u309	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! There was a question concerning the transfer of KZN land, which falls under the Ministry of Development and Technology. Only this year, he's handed over a few dozen acres. This is a lot of real estate transferred under housing construction, it is transferred to SIM, it is transferred to special purpose companies. This year we also have a solution implemented for the land area, in which it is also possible to transfer the property to the apartments. These are concrete actions and a concrete answer to the question that has been raised here. The question was whether this was the only solution. Of course, this is an element that we will soon complete with another element, another law, namely a family housing voucher, which will complete this solution. And we're going to make an offer for those who are also struggling with the housing problem, but they don't have the credit capacity, for the poorer people and families who will need money to participate in TBS or SIM, who will need money to contribute to the housing cooperative. Where someone does not have a credit rating, where someone enters social construction, but needs this contribution to social housing, he will be able to benefit from this solution. It's not just... I don't want to give you any more details, because we don't have a draft bill ready yet, but as I say, we're gonna complete this solution. And that's not all we're proposing. Of course, there was also a question about whether the family would be able to repay this loan with its own guarantee. Let me remind you again: it's about families who are creditworthy. And the credit rating is being tested by the bank. The bank, by lending... Each bank in Poland will be able to benefit from the possibility of lending with this guaranteed contribution by BGK. And this bank, which will lend, has obligations under financial regulations and what the Financial Supervision Authority expects from banks. He's supposed to check his credit and give those loans to families who can afford to pay off those loans. And just because the family doesn't have their own contribution yet doesn't really mean that this family doesn't have credit. This ability in such a family can occur. And, as I stress, the bank will check it out. There was also a doubt about the impact of this solution and the entire government's policy on childhood in Poland, on this demographic effect. Of course, Ladies and gentlemen, we do not say that this program will cause children in Poland to launch, but it will be part of the whole puzzle, part of the whole family policy. We have Minister Socha with us, probably to the next point. The Minister is responsible for demographic and pro-family policies in Poland and would probably confirm that the 500+ programme and this government policy, which is already under way, does not actually result in an increase in births, for example. year to year, but it causes us to have several tens of thousands of children a year more than if this program hadn't been there. These demographic forecasts, which GUS was still a few years ago, as the previous coalition ruled in Poland, presented, showed how many children would be born in the following years. And now, thanks to the policy of the Law and Justice Government, we have the effect that the actual numbers of children born in the coming years are much higher than they were predicted. It is difficult to achieve the effect of such total growth or the firing of births at the moment, because people of childbearing age There are just few potential mothers and fathers. We have than a demographic that has entered the reproductive age, the age when families are established and decide on the offspring. But without family programs, without a pro-family policy of the country, which is also part of the bill, which is being processed by the High Senate today, the decrease in the number of children in Poland would be much greater. So all the more reason I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u310	Thank you very much. Minister, in fact, the minus is the minus in math. If we see that the number of people born equals the number of people dying or higher, we'll enjoy it even more. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: But I hope that the marshal understood what I was saying.]] Oh, I totally get it. You know, I don't want to get into a discussion about in vitro and other things anymore, because we'd be curious... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: If you wish, then...]] I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the 17th point. In some ways indirectly, or even directly related to the previous law on family care capital. The text of the act is contained in print No 507, and the report of the committee In print No 507 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Dorota Tobiszowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, I would be very pleased to present to the High House a report on the meeting of this committee. The subject of the committee's meeting was the Family Care Capital Act. A few words in front. The purpose of the Act on Family Care Capital is to introduce a new benefit, namely family care capital, into the legal system. Who's he headed for? To families with dependent children. And its purpose is primarily to cover part of the expenses related to care for the second and the next child of the age, as a rule, between the 12th and the 30th six months of age. The aim of this benefit is also to mitigate adverse demographic trends. Family care capital will be allocated to a second and subsequent child from the age of twelve to thirty-six months of age with a maximum amount of 12 thousand PLN per child. It will be a benefit independent of the income of the family, i.e. it will not be an income criterion. Family care capital will be provided at the request of the entitled person. This will be realized by the Social Insurance Institution. Another topic is funding for a child's stay in a nursery, a children's club or a day care provider. And so: parents are entitled to a contribution of PLN 400 per child in daycare, children's club or day care provider. It may not be higher than the amount of the parental charge for children in nursery, children's club or day care provider. The funding shall be transferred to the bank account of the day care provider. The Social Insurance Institution shall pay them at the request of the parent. Now a few sentences about the committee meeting. The Legislative Office has proposed amendments. I will mention those supported by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. In the vote, the result was unanimous in favour. Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 and The entry "subject to the provision " shall be deleted, taking into account. Here, as I said, the committee voted unanimously in favour. Subsequently, Article 2 is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. 43, point 4a and Article. 44 (2), 4a. It's all about dots and semicolons, it's about switching. Art. 48 (12), Article. 64e paragraph. 5 and Article 5 Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6. Here we have the substitution of words, or actually the wording of false statements by the wording of the false statement. All amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau received majority support were voted unanimously in favour. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 12 in the paragraph. 3 the word "" shall be deleted accordingly. Here, too, the vote was unanimous in favour. Then we spent a little bit more time on 2 articles, i.e. Article 2 49 and Article 49 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by The Legislative Office has proposed that these articles be deleted. Why? In the case of Article. 49 The Legislative Office stated that this record appeared between the first and second reading in the Sejm, which is contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Moreover, the substance of this provision goes beyond the law and its financial consequences have not been taken into account. Art. 55. In connection with the implementation by the Social Insurance Institution of tasks related to family care capital, the public procurement rules shall not apply. There was a dispute between the government side and the Legislative Bureau. These 2 amendments have been voted on to delete the article. 49 and Article 49 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and The result of the vote is five votes in favour, three votes against. The proposal for an amendment was accepted by the committee. Finally, the Commission voted unanimously in favour of the law and recommended that the amendments which I had discussed earlier be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u312	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u313	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, family custody is a new benefit. After programs such as the family of 500+ and the good start, they can already be assessed as such. It's a very positive benefit. I would like to ask if there was any mention at the committee's meeting of how many children would be able to benefit from this benefit. Does this benefit apply to the income criterion? How will parents be able to receive this witness?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u314	I'll answer that. The income criterion, as I mentioned in my report, does not apply. There's no income criterion. How will the funds be received? They'll be paid into the bank account. I said that too. As far as the number of children is concerned, maybe I'll give the Minister the floor because we didn't talk about it at the committee meeting. [[If I could ask you how the funds will be taken... I mean how much the parents will be able to charge them.]] In the amount of PLN 500 per month, each month, or PLN 1 thousand every other month. This will be for all children between the 12th and the 36th months of their lives.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u315	Thank you. You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u316	Mrs. Senator, is this benefit addressed to Polish citizens or to those who live in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u317	Mr. Marshal, I can read the bill carefully, but I would ask that the Minister speak in more detail about this, because she will be more fluent and I would have to look for it. But this is about all children who are Polish citizens, also those who are abroad... about the children of Polish citizens. It's a short story. If the Minister will allow it... [[So this is directed at Polish citizens?]] Yes. [[Not those living in Poland, just... different. Because it can be directed at Polish citizens or at people who live in Poland and who do not have citizenship.]] I can read it to you exactly... [[No, thank you, you already said that. It's about Polish citizens...]] Yes, yes, Polish citizens... [[...including those abroad. Thank you very much.]] Polish citizens, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u318	Thank you very much. The question is, Senator Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u319	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a question. Did the committee's meeting mention that this is another benefit that will be paid by the Social Security Office? I ask this further in the context of our previous plenary meeting, when there was a big discussion about the transfer of benefits 500+ to the Social Insurance Institution. Now there's another task coming, and before that, there was also... This is the third one, another one already granted by the Social Security Office. Is this the ZUS? 'Cause I'm just setting it up, 'cause he's gonna be okay with all the other benefits that they're going through to him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I will answer this: yes, this is another benefit that is paid by the Social Insurance Institution. Can the ZUS handle it? I don't think that's a question for me. But I do know what we talked about at the previous Senate meeting, and I will answer you this way. I spoke to the president of the Social Insurance Institution because I organized such assistance for all people who were supposed to write 300+ applications, or 300 PLN to start. Since there was a statutory record that said that such a proposal could only be made electronically, it was because of the fear that some people in my city, my workplace, would not be able to manage, I arranged a meeting with me in the senator's office. They were on duty for the next five weeks. And as I said at the committee meeting or at the Senate meeting, not one person has asked me. A simple conclusion can be drawn from this that, as the Minister said at the previous Senate meeting, more than 99%, probably 99.1% people who have children up to the age of 16 have computers and use them in such a way that there is no doubt about it. And these applications are made. And I'm confirming that, too, because I made this move to help people who are going to apply for it, to apply for it online. That's all I can answer. However, I will not speak for the president of the Social Security Office and for the employees of the Social Security Office. As far as I know, there's no contraindications here. The Minister, I think, will add a few more sentences on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u321	Thank you very much. No further questions. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. Allow me to welcome the representative of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy undersecretary of state, Mrs Barbara Socha. I have a question as to whether a representative of the government wishes to speak on the bill under consideration. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u322	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I'd like to make a very brief introduction. I'd love to. The basic principles of the law. They have already been mentioned here, but I would very much like to highlight a few facts, a few important changes which this law serves. First of all, we introduce a child benefit into the so-called. Daycare, second and third years of age. This is a time for parents, which means, apart from, of course, the joy of raising children, the huge organisational and logistics challenge, also financial when it comes to organizing care, because it involves either the withdrawal of mom The most common we have From the labour market or from taking up a job, and the costs of taking up this job are very important for women at the moment. And this witness meets these needs. This is the first benefit to be granted regardless of the form of care that parents choose. So, as a country, we co-finance care not only for those children who attend daycare, but also for those children who stay at home with their parents, with one of their parents or with their grandmother, grandfather or in any other form. This is one basic change, this is a loophole we're filling. Today there is such a gap when after the parent's parental leave, 12 months, the child does not yet go to kindergarten. Parents' preferences are very diverse here. I'll just tell you that, among other things, Of course, as part of our work on this witnessing, we conducted parental preference studies and parents' preferences clearly show that day care is the best form of childcare according to 22% of parents. 22% That's what the parents say. 39% He thinks the best form is to take care of one of his parents personally. Of course, this is followed by further development of institutional care, i.e. nursery care. And this is the second change, which is very important, which we are introducing by this law, namely the new permanent mechanism for co-financing the costs of living in daycare. This is something that has been, you can say, our pain for many years, because many times more money has been spent on the development of nursery care since 2015... They were largely devoted to construction, investments, new sites, construction of new buildings. Today, thanks to EU measures, planned among others. Under the National Plan for Reconstruction, but also from other EU sources, these investment tasks related to the creation of new places will be financed by EU funds and the entire budget of the programme to date is allocated to the reduction of fees, i.e. to the introduction of this permanent mechanism of care payments, PLN 400 per first child, i.e. which is not covered by the provision of family care capital. There's about half these kids in daycare. So out of about 200,000 daycare places, 100,000 will be co-financed in this way with the Small+. And all the other children, the second and the next, will benefit from the family's care capital, regardless of whether they benefit from daycare or not. Is this bill and this benefit needed in the light of what has been said here in this House just now, for example, in the context of the previous Act on Guaranteed Housing Credit or in the context of the 500+ family programme? There were words about math and births. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important to look at demographics, births or deaths We're not talking about death here today. In this demographic context. Well, it's obvious, it seems that more children are born in Poland than in Hungary, for this simple reason, that there are 38 million Poles and 9 million Hungarians. The biggest demographic disaster we had in postwar history was 2002. In 2002, as many children were born as last year. The difference is that in 2002 women of procreation age were over 10 million in Poland, and today I am talking about data for last year We don't even have 9 million anymore, we have 8 million 830 thousand women who are counted in this population of procreational age. At this point in time, in the procreational age population, there are women of my age, my yearbooks, my 40s. These are women who will no longer have children, and they are today included in this, because these are numerous yearbooks of the demographic boom, which was the height of martial law. Ladies and gentlemen, the biggest disaster that has ever happened to us in terms of demographics is the failure of 10, 20 years ago to use this ewe that could have been born... should have been 20 years ago, 10 years ago, another echo of this ewe. It didn't happen in Poland. And that's the biggest tragedy. Five years ago, the demographers said it was too late to have any instrument so radical that we could see birth growth today. At least it happened. Why did it happen for a while? It is precisely because these women reaching forty six years ago were still many years old and the plans or so-called ones were realized. The last moments for this. Later we have a drop in births and this decline will continue, Ladies and Gentlemen, for at least 20 years. There is no physical possibility for us to increase birth rates in 20 years, because we know how many women are going to be able to have babies in 10 years because they're in school today. We know how many in 20 years there will be women who can have children, because they already go to nurserys today, to kindergartens. And there won't be any more. That's why the only thing we can do... There's a Chinese proverb, I may have said it once, but I think it's a very good way to put it: the best time to plant a tree was 100 years ago, and the second best one is today. And what we can do today is to put in place with all our methods good conditions for those who want to have children, for those families who want to grow, so that we can hope for a reflection in a 20-year perspective when it comes to the number of births. If we don't, we'll just die out. And going back to the predictions and the number that was quoted here, 355 grand that there are fewer and fewer children... Ladies and gentlemen, this is still more than the CSO forecast in 2014. From 2014 we have the last long-term forecast of the CSO in terms of population, and according to the 2014 forecasts, 334 thousand children were to be born in Poland last year. 355,000 were born, even though we have a huge decline in the pandemic situation. And he's everywhere in the world. The Americans are beating the alarm, the French are beating the alarm, because these are countries in which so far there have been no demographic problems, and today they have come out very strongly and there these declines are dramatic. With us there is a significant drop in the number of married couples, the whole wedding industry was closed in 2020 and this has its effects and will have its effects. But this is absolutely no argument for calling into question the importance of family policy today. We can go on the road of Western European countries, which do not believe in raising children, and today their only goal is to create a system for people to work until death. That's what I hear in conversations with my counterparts in other countries. Sweden is thinking about linking the retirement age with the life expectancy, the aim of the whole lifelong learning process, is to ensure that older people do not retire at all. We believe, of course, in addition to the activation of older people, their inclusion and the entire senior policy, which is most justified, necessary and positive We still believe, I personally am deeply convinced that it is possible to increase childhood and this is absolutely our reason for the state. Moreover, it is possible not only because we think it is so or because we are imitating research that may no longer be justified in today's world, as some say. We also look at the experiences of other countries, we are part of the only region today in Europe where children grow. Unfortunately, with us not as fast as in Romania, not as fast as in the Czech Republic or Slovakia or Hungary, but in these countries childhood grows very quickly, despite what we hear, as it is impossible for cultural reasons as well as for many, many others, also for civilization. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that today we can debate and, I hope, accept this project. This is one of the elements, not the only and not the most important, but one of the essential elements, which is to build a comprehensive system, a comprehensive policy that creates a friendly living environment for families, as previously discussed here, a project on housing credit, because it responds to the needs related to barriers as regards the first child, and the one we are talking about now responds to the needs related to barriers as regards the second and the next child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u323	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. You're asking Senator Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u324	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, at the beginning I would like to thank you very warmly, because, as I mentioned here, after the programs of the family 500+ and the good start, this is another good programme of Law and Justice, a program that supports Polish families. I have two questions. I asked the rapporteur the first question earlier: how many children will be able to benefit from this programme? And second question. This solution shall enter into force on 1 January 2022. I'd like to ask you a question like that. If the child has, for example. Two and a half years, so will the family be able to make a contribution for this child for a few months?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u325	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u326	We estimate that this witness will be covered by 400 000 children, and in the first year of 615 000 children, precisely because the parents of children who, at the time of the entry into force of the Act, on 1 January, will be between the thirteenth and the thirty-sixth months of their life, will be able to benefit proportionally from this benefit, provided that it will amount to PLN 500 per month, i.e. they will not be able to collect this benefit flexibly in the amount of PLN 1 thousand per month by the chosen time. On the other hand, parents of children who will end the 12th year of life at the time of the law's entry into force will be able to fully benefit from both of these options. [[12 months, maybe, not 12 years.]] Did I say the 12th year? [[Yes.]] Sorry, 12 months, of course. In addition, we estimate that about 100,000 children will benefit from a surcharge to reduce the costs of daycare within this group of children who are the first and who will attend daycare.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u327	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Just a quick question. You said in your speech of preference for forms of child care: 22% Daycare, 39% One of the parents. And what are the preferences for other forms? [[The voice from the room: Grandma.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u329	Grandma, Grandpa's high too. I don't remember the exact number, I think it was about 20%. For me personally, there were surprisingly few indications for nannies, perhaps 2% nannies. I don't remember the others. I'm sending it back to strategy. [[Can you ask for this data in writing because this is very interesting?]] I'm sending it to the Demographic Strategy project, and that's where all the data is available. [[I'm asking for written information.]] Good. Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u330	I understand that the Minister undertakes to reply in writing. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Barbara Socha: Yes.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You spoke very interestingly about demography here. I remember a time when there were seven, eight children in the family, and if only they hadn't died in the first period of childhood, they'd retreat, they'd go on their own, and now they've got their kids. Tell me what has changed over the last 50 years, that once Polish women had seven or eight children in marriages, and now they are unable with much better security, I would call it social and living standards, having one child or two. What's now, what wasn't then, or what was then, what wasn't now? That's the basic question. 'Cause to me, all these important, useful government activities in child support... Well, they're just missing something. It's about the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u332	I want you to concentrate on...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u333	Dear Senator, I would love to talk about this for a long time. There are a lot of factors that have an impact on this. Demographers argue whether more cultural or more material factors, and you can assume, I think, all of them. In the demographic strategy we have identified 10 key areas that affect fertility, and in one sentence I can say that opportunities, aspirations, approaches to life have changed, although values in Poland are not very important, against the background of other countries there is still a very great attachment to family values and success for Poles, happiness in life is the same as family happiness, those who say that they have happy families, feel happy. But the family model in terms of number has changed as much as possible, because today a family with three children is a big family, we have a Large Family Card already for families who have three children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u334	Thank you very much. Please inform me that there are no further questions. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators... Oh, Senator Swede must be, so to speak. But he's gone. Oh, no, it is, it is. Thank you very much, Minister. In that case, please take the floor of Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u335	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Poland has for a long time been facing serious challenges related to adverse demographic trends. Eurostat forecasts show that in the next decade the population of our country will decrease by almost 1 million people. The answer of the Government of Law and Justice is an active and comprehensive pro-family policy, which, alongside programs such as the Family of 500+, the Good Start or the Little One, will offer new support to Poles as part of the family's care capital. The proposed support will encourage more children and create better conditions for their upbringing. Thus, to complete the positive actions of the government so far will be aid worth PLN 12,000 for the second and subsequent children aged between the 12th and the thirty-sixth months of age. It is worth recalling here the most important solutions regarding family care capital. This is a new benefit addressed to families with children of a maximum amount of 12 thousand PLN for the second and subsequent children. Support will be independent of family income, no income criterion will apply, measures will not be taxed. The benefit will be paid monthly, the monthly amount of support will be PLN 500 for 2 years or PLN 1 thousand for a year. The solution will apply from 1 January 2022. The right to support will also be granted to families who will have a second and subsequent child aged 12 to 30 months on the date of entry into force of the Act. They will be able to receive pro rata support for the period from 1 January 2022 until the second or subsequent children of the thirty-six months of age have completed. The task will be carried out by the Social Insurance Institution. In 2022, some 600,000 children will be able to benefit from support. In addition, the government intends to introduce additional measures to strengthen the childcare system under the age of 3. The government will introduce funding for a child's stay in a nursery, a children's club or a daily caretaker of PLN 400 per month. The funding is intended to cover the fee for the stay of the child in the care institution. This will apply to children who are not covered by family care capital. The support of PLN 400 will be paid directly to the crèche operator, the children's club or the day care provider. In total, around 110 000 children will be supported. Allow me here to quote a passage of the statement of reasons for this law. The period of the last 5 years of the rule of the United Right was an absolute breakthrough in Polish politics. It was a time of important reforms and positive changes, which brought benefits to all residents of Poland. Increase by 36% average monthly salary in the national economy from PLN 3 000 900 gross in 2015 to PLN 5 000 400 gross in 2021 • significant and constant increase in the minimum wage 60%, i.e. from PLN 1 000 740 gross in 2015 to PLN 2 000 800 gross in 2020 for young workers aged up to the age of twenty-six, these are only some of the changes made. It was with this perspective of development and prosperity that Poland entered in 2020, a year that changed the whole world dramatically. On May 15, 2021, the government presented the Polish Load as a response to the reality after the COVID-19 pandemic. In order to continue to build a state of prosperity that meets the standards of European societies in which people can live safely and work on decent conditions, a new strategy of action was needed to meet the challenges posed by the crisis of COVID-19. The Polish Government is responding to the growing expectations of society regarding the recovery of economic activity in sectors most affected by the crisis caused by COVID-19, further growth in income and social development. The Polish Load is an extensive plan, in which the objectives and proposals concerning many areas of social and economic life are presented. Among the elements of the Polish Load there is a family and a house in the center of life. Family policy is one of the most important areas of government action. The foundations of this policy are traditional and important values for Poland, among which the family belongs to the most important and most durable ones. The planned and consistently implemented family policy by the government assumes that it is the family that is the foundation of a strong state, and any initiative which strengthens this foundation also strengthens the state. Family care is therefore one of the greatest values around which the current government unites. In view of the many development challenges already identified in the National Strategy Papers, as well as the new challenges arising from the short-term and long-term effects of the COVID-19 crisis, which has a bearing on the global economy as a whole, one of the most serious risks is the negative demographic trends. The current demographic situation in the country is very difficult. The continuing decline in births and childhood below generation replacement levels for almost 30 years has led to Poland becoming one of Europe's most debilitating and ageing countries in the coming years. The average age in Poland in 2070 will be 52.1 years and will be lower than the average age in Italy, which will be 52.6 years. As I said at the beginning, Eurostat forecasts show that Poland's population will decrease by almost 1 million in the next decade, and this trend will continue in the next decades. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, I fully share the government's views that active family policy should mitigate negative demographic trends and include a number of activities of a financial, institutional and legal nature. It should take into account areas such as health, childcare, taxation, access to housing, reconciliation of professional and family roles, labour market flexibility, measures promoting family values and procreational health. Effective implementation of this policy requires coordinated and long-term action. I am pleased that as part of the Polish Order, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki continues to support Polish families. For the first time in six years, we have a government that pursues a comprehensive and broad family-friendly policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u336	Thank you very much, Senator. I would particularly like to thank you for reminding me, perhaps for the fourth time, of the objectives of this good programme. Senator Tobiszowska, former legal opinion, spoke to the Minister. I've gotten so fixed up, I'm gonna know how to vote now. There are no more speakers, which is why I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, pleno titulo senators Mammoths, Golba, Swede, Pop... The Swede isn't anymore. Sorry, he's out. ... Bubbles, Gromko, Gorgon-Komor, Durlak, Szejnfeld, Kochan, Majer and Gazwada have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. You have made proposals of a legislative nature in writing, Senator Magdalena Kochan. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you, Minister, for coming along with the crew. I would like to inform you that today we will consider the 18th and 19th agenda items, and the next items will be discussed tomorrow at a later date to be announced to you at the end of the day. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes. The text of the Act is contained in print No 508, and the Commission's reports In the forms Nos 508 A and 508 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u337	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at its meeting on 19 October 2021 examined the Law amending the Law on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes. The aim of the Act is to improve the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes. The Act is intended to implement the European Parliament Directive of 2010. The provisions of the Act also meet the audit requests of the Supreme Audit Chamber of 2017. The Act also adapts its provisions to the Law on Higher Education adopted in 2018. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, we considered the amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau. 5 of these amendments were supported by the committee and supported by the Ministry. There was no broadened discussion on this point at the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. I think this is related to the fact that the subject is more relevant to the science committee. I therefore request, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, that this law be adopted together with the proposed 5 amendments. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u338	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Józef Zając, to present a report to the committee remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u339	Good evening. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on 26 October this year. on the draft law amending the Law on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes, contained in Senate print No 508. The project submitted is a government project. The need for legislative work was the result of proceedings initiated by the European Commission against Poland in connection with the failure to implement into national law the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. The aim of the contested law, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum, is to improve the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes, as well as to improve the functioning of the system of regulation of activities involving the use of animals for those purposes, including the acquisition of an entry in the register of breeders, suppliers and users and the consent to carry out experiments on animals. The proposed amendments are intended to extend the scope of the 3R principle: replacement, possibly, of an animal in an experiment by testing models; reduction of the number of animals used for testing and improvement of the method for reducing animal suffering in experiments. In addition, the Act, first of all, clarifies matters concerning experts cooperating with district veterinarians in carrying out checks, specifying the requirements to be met by such an expert and the conditions for its inclusion in and deletion from the list of experts. Secondly, it complements and clarifies the provisions concerning the register of breeders, suppliers and users, in particular as regards species used by users of animals outside the centre and the establishment of a body competent to issue a decision on the finding of a gross infringement in relation to their activities. Thirdly, it provides for the possibility of increasing the number of local ethics committees from 11 to 18. The proposed date of entry into force of the Act was fixed at 14 days from the date of its publication. The Commission recommends 7 amendments to the Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u340	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. I don't see any questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Education and Science has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. At this point I would like to welcome our fellow senator, the Secretary of State, Prof. Vladimir Bernacki. I ask: does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to add after this presentation by the rapporteurs of the committee, both agriculture and the Committee on Education, Science and Sport... Well, on the one hand, it can only be added that this law is a law implementing or perfecting the implementation of EU law into the Polish legal order, and on the other hand it is worth mentioning that in the Sejm, both in committee meetings and consequently in plenary and in votes thanks to this, I would say, very intensive work has been done to work on this project. So that today we are getting legislation and we are debating a law that I think is pretty complete. So I am asking the High House to adopt a resolution on the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u342	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u343	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, it is stated here, in the impact assessment of the regulation, that in the draft article. 2 (2) Point 12 of the Act introduces such a definition of a self-sufficient colony. Does the Minister know what a self-sufficient colony is? As far as I know. If you don't...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u344	Well, here you can ask specialists, but certainly the intention of the changes was to bring about such a situation that this space, which is a breeding area, would be a space of similar protection in terms of animal welfare, such as the one concerning the experiments carried out. So that... I know that I'm not full of definition or all aspects of definition here, but I hope I've satisfied curiosity to some extent.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u345	Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u346	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The draft amendment of the Law of 15 January 2015 on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes is a response to the formal procedure initiated by the European Commission in relation to Poland in relation to the way in which the provisions of the European Parliament Directive of September 2010 on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes are transposed into national law. I would like to stress very strongly at this point that it is very good that this project has appeared. And thank you to everyone involved in his preparation. However, this proposal, in addition to the amendments resulting from the need to implement the Directive, contains proposals that violate the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland in order to limit the transparency of the work of the committees issuing consent to experience, which is incompatible with the provisions of other laws, including those relating to veterinary care of animals, and reduce the possibility of controlling the experience carried out on live animals and thus limit this effective protection, which is the purpose of the Act. It is worth noting here that about 100,000 animals are used every year in the experience in Poland. In 2020, approximately 40,000 animals were used in procedures with the highest severity. The protection of laboratory animals is a particularly important issue because it concerns the suffering that we expose these animals to in order to develop science in order to have an ever better treatment. During experiments, the suffering of animals is often significant, often impossible to alleviate, the more important it is for the protection system to work effectively. During the work on the Law in the Sejm, amendments were tabled to the draft, prepared on the basis of numerous comments made during the public consultation, including. by the National Veterinary and Medical Chamber or by social organizations. Unfortunately, some of them have not been taken into account. These amendments aimed at sealing the system of testing of experience by the State Veterinary Inspection, increasing the transparency of the work of ethical committees granting consent to experience, ensuring appropriate veterinary care for animals used in experiments. These problems were addressed in the report published in 2017 by the Supreme Audit Chamber on the use of animals in scientific research and it was extremely important to me that I could announce this report as President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Allow me to quote a brief passage from this report. The main objective of the NIK control was to examine whether the new regulations had an impact on the protection of animals used for research purposes. According to NIKO, the new law has not, for the time being, had the expected impact on the improvement of animal protection. Full implementation of these regulations requires further improvement of the activities of both surveillance and animal research operators. And this is what I am proposing to amend the above mentioned law, thanking here representatives of social organisations involved in animal protection and veterinary services involved in the preparation of these amendments. After long discussions with the representatives of the organisation, we limited the original list of amendments to the most important ones. I formally submit 14 amendments. But let me just talk about one thing right now. I propose that point 34 be deleted in Article. 1 because proposed by the Ministry of Science adding an article to the Mother's Law. 38a will unwarrantedly secretise the work of the ethics committees granting permission to experience. Ethics committees operate on the basis of a code of administrative procedure and should therefore, like any other body, provide information to the public as their work is public funding. The minutes, like the resolutions of the authorities, are official documents. The proposed provision will be incompatible with Article. Article 61 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution, as the Senate Legislative Office has pointed out. As regards the protection of the interests of users, there are provisions to protect the secrets of the company, copyright or patent, as well as issues relating to the unlawful disclosure of information by the person who is obliged not to disclose it, as set out in Article. 266 criminal code and applicable to members of national ethics committees or local committees. The information in question is not and should not be a secret, for example a description of the conditions for keeping animals, a description of the methods of anestheticizing animals or pain management, a description of the application of the 3R principle or the humanitarian method of euthanasia. This information should be available to the public. As regards the parts of the proposal that must be protected, both the Act on access to public information and the provisions on the protection of personal data or business secrecy allow public authorities to assess which information the authority may and may not make available. The Authority may also anonymize the application, make available non-protected parts and exclude those protected. The legislator must not restrict the constitutional right of citizens to information because of their interest in the subject. I will quote the answer of the Ministry of Science to the attention of the Senate Legislative Office, where we can read that this matter would cause a huge increase in the burden on ethical committees. This is absolutely not an argument to make access to such information difficult or impossible. Using the Senate Legislative Bureau's opinion and following it, I am proposing amendments to the bill. I hope you're a minister and a resort. 'Cause I have no doubt about the intention of drafting the bill, which is where I started, thanking you for this job. They will take a favourable look at the proposals submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u347	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Halina Bieda, Ryszard Śvilski, Alexander Szwed and Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor have submitted their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. The discussion is closed. In the discussion... [[Senator's voice:]] Yeah, yeah, I know everything. [[Voice from the room:... wasn't on the list.]] Who? [[Senator Janusz Błucherz.]] Did Senator Bladder apply? [[Yeah, I made all the applications yesterday, all the speeches.]] But as a statement to the record, right? [[For protocol, yes.]] Okay, I'll take note of that. Thank you so much for this information. [[Voice from the room: There is no conclusion.]] Well, then we'll have to look. If the senator says he's made it up, he's probably not making it up. Legislative proposals were put forward in the discussion, so I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this issue will take place tomorrow at the end of the Senate meeting. I have a question. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo. I would like to point out two very important points. First of all, I'd like to refer to the article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which says that in certain situations there may be a limitation of what we call freedom. And here, referring to the matter that Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski referred to, I will say that we do indeed have a very delicate and subtle situation in terms of scientific research carried out and, at the same time, access to information resulting from scientific research carried out. Well, these studies are research not only on the pharmaceutical sphere but also on other areas. And even if we take into account what is related to pharmacy, the expenditures incurred by laboratories, and in fact by investors, are inputs directed directly at the effect of scientific research. So not all the data... Well, in any case, the amount of this data must be limited. Well, here's the bill, this amendment we're proposing, is agreed directly with the EU directive. Moreover, it is precisely EU law that does not allow us to go any further, because that would be simple... That is to say, it would be an act directly leading to the violation of other people's property, including copyright, which is related to the very specific financial effects of research. So that this is a very important and important issue when it comes to restrictions on access to information. I thank you for the amendments tabled, but I am pleased that the senator has limited the number of these amendments, limited them only to those which were not, as a matter of fact, consummated at the stage of proceedings or the legislative procedure in the Sejm. Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u349	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you again that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law on Specific Support Instruments in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The text of the act is contained in print No 509, and the report of the committee In print No 509 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to submit a report to the committee It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I will divide my speech on behalf of the committee into very short parts due to the lateness of time. A very short comment will be my personal. In short, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport recommended that the High Senate reject this proposal in its entirety without proposing amendments. Let me add that this decision, this opinion was not unanimous, was the advantage of one vote. We had doubts about one part, part related to the article. 2, where the possibility of transferring expenditure from 2020 to 2022 has also been added to this law, forgetting 2021. Unfortunately, due to the poor composition of this passage, we felt that it would be better, in short, to reject the whole project and mobilise the government to make the latter part presented in a different form, in a legislative manner. As far as the first part is concerned, in such a nutshell, the intention has generally been written out loudly. That's what I'd call it. The aim of the Act was to ensure that academic teachers could express their thoughts and words freely, and under the Act the rector would be burdened with the additional task of ensuring that the university respects the freedom of education, freedom of expression, research and the publication of its results. In addition, the amendment would assume that the provision would guarantee the free expression of religious, worldview or philosophical beliefs, of course, by academic teachers. However, as a result of the discussion, we considered that these records conceal a slightly different intention, an intention which boils down to building a separate procedure of disciplinary proceedings, which, in short, the committee considered unfortunate. So much for the committee. Once again, the committee recommends rejecting this law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u351	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I would like you to clarify whether you want to reject this law because of the article. I understand that the committee considers that it does not fall within the scope of this law. or for some other reason, e.g. due to the wording of Article. 1. And now like this: if this were to be rejected only by virtue of the article. 2, it would suffice simply to exclude this provision from the wording of the law, to make an amendment. That's the first question. And as for art. 1, I would ask you to clarify what the charge against this article would be. You were talking about a separate disciplinary mode, but that's not in the bill. These are changes to the mode that already exists at the moment. Didn't the committee try to apply in practice these exactly, I would call it, the restrictions against which this law is supposed to defend scientists at universities?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u353	Thank you very much. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u354	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! It was the other way around. We were willing to support this article. 2 because he is needed, but he was entered into the wrong bill, and he also had this additional disadvantage that he no longer took into account 2021. It would be good for the government in this case. I am talking about the non-extinguishable spending of universities, and it was decided before the end of the year, including 2020 and 2021. Colleges will be thrilled with this. This will also solve certain problems that always occur at the turn of individual years. That is why I am calling for this problem to actually be resolved. Nevertheless, the senator is fully aware that these changes are not so much to defend the autonomy of universities and the right of scientists, academics to express their views. It is even stated here that it is a matter of worldview, religious, philosophical, etc. How much to put in place a certain procedure whereby certain disciplinary decisions could, in short, be repealed or wiped out by a special decision of the Minister. At the committee meeting there was a very interesting discussion, which I listened to with some horror, because it mixed various cases and figures from the history of our science with contemporary problems, which have nothing to do with political persecutions, and I would stress this strongly: persecutions of the 1950s and 1960s. So Prof. Tatarkiewicz and Prof. Banaszak were mentioned, Prof. Kołakowski and Prof. Migalski were mentioned together with the case. I believe that the best place to defend the autonomy and autonomy of the university, and the rights of lecturers, scientists, academics, is by the university itself. And I don't think the transfer of these competences outside is for the autonomy of the university. I'll add that too. Perhaps this will cause me no longer to take part in the discussion that will begin in a moment. That there was such a belief that the so-called. Political correctness is detrimental to American universities. And there were such voices of outrage that, as a result of this correctness, American universities are in crisis. Well, I wish our universities were in such a crisis as universities in the UK or in the United States. But, in general, I will stress once again: the most important thing is to ensure freedom of expression, but not to violate the factual sphere. I spoke about this very strongly, in a clear, undisputed way. I can't imagine there's any appeal that's gonna repeal disciplinary decisions from someone who's gonna say that the Earth is flat, coronavirus isn't or isn't Holocaust. It's just that, and that's all it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u355	Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Education and Science, represented by Professor Włodzimierz Bernacki, was authorised to present the position of the government. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think there's been a terrible misunderstanding here. I thank Senator Czerwiński for asking this very important and fundamental question about the reasons why this draft amendment met with such an astonishing reaction. I'll refer to the article. 2 because here there is a charge about why from 2020 and not from 2021... Perhaps the memory of us, politicians or the memory of us as inhabitants of this part of the world is unreliable, but I will remind you that the lockdown that took place in 2020 has brought incredibly serious material consequences, including in terms of the functioning of the university. But above all, we are talking about the financial resources for investment. Practically speaking, in 2020 most of the funds allocated to investments in part of Therefore, both the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Finance agreed to the amendment tabled by Members at the committee meeting during the second reading and this proposal was accepted. So once again, there is a fundamental difference between the possibilities of spending funds from the 2020 financial year and those of 2021. As far as this fundamental part of the amendment is concerned, Senator Zdrojewski has slightly abused his role and function as rapporteur, because I in no place and at no time have combined Leszek Kołakowski with Mark Migalski. However, I have respect for the scientific achievements of Leszek Kołakowski. I highly appreciate all his works, even those from earlier times, i.e. those concerning the English philosophy of the 17th century, as well as his fundamental thing concerning the main trends of Marxism. It was in student times my basic book for debate and discussion. It was a philosopher who finally broke out beyond this pattern and canon of revisionism, finally embarked on an intellectual path and such a fundamental criticism of Marxism-Leninism. So please don't impute me here that I put Marek Migalski and Leszek Kołakowski together. If I was talking about cases of such dramatic or very inappropriate Polish order, as far as universities are concerned, i.e. the situation in which freedom of scholars, individual scholars were violated and violated, then I was only talking about Leszek Kołakowski as a young man who, infatuated with Marxism, attacked Prof. Tatarkiewicz. But in no way did I transfer it to modern times. I will remind you, Senator, that when I talked about this conflict and this tension between Leszek Kołakowski and Prof. Władysław Tatarkiewicz, I only meant the category, the concept that emerged during the debate and during the discussion. This can be verified on the basis of a transcript, and I think that the chairman of the committee will confirm that it only referred to the category of scientific belief. I have been, I am, and I will oppose defining what is called the scientific worldview, while we can have a discussion and debate within one discipline or another in terms of methodological issues, so we can consider certain procedures as procedures that are scientific in nature and thus lead us to what we call the truth. The truth in the sense, in this case, scientific. I absolutely disagree with the fact that one of many... or a certain methodological trend is considered the only scientific one and called it a scientific worldview. Hence my reference to Prof. Tatarkiewicz and then probably only to the adherent of the philosophical teachings of Leszek Kołakowski. So don't abuse it. If I was talking about cases, I was referring to British or American cases, then I allowed myself to say only that when it comes to the place of Polish science and Polish universities on the European map or the world map, when it comes to the United States and when it comes to Europe, we are dealing with an offensive of what we call the dictatorship of political correctness. That's all. I wanted to be polite, I wanted to be polite, and I pointed out that our universities are in exactly the same cultural space, because the processes we're dealing with are connected with the so-called. the internationalization process, except that our texts are published willingly, but if accepted by the editors of foreign scientific journals. I mean those journals that function in the space of science, applied sciences, but I also mean those magazines and publications that function in the space of humanities and social sciences and which are particularly exposed to some popular worldview trends. If we're talking about the bill, And here I am addressing Mr Czerwinski, but also the High House. It's... [[Senator.]] Senator... I said "message," right? I'm sorry, of course. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Tough times would be... I just wanted to say that Law 2.0 is so-called. The constitution for science is a law that introduced a situation such that the rector of the university can say, as Louis XIV once did, the state is me. The Rector under Law 2.0, the Constitution for Science, has really complete power. Yes, there are complementary, complementary sounds, but it is the rector who actually has this very broad power and competence, also in the part that Senator Czerwiński asked about, which is the discipline part. Yes, the rector appoints either a spokesperson of discipline or other games that deal with disciplinary matters. And something completely understandable was At a time when this constitution for science and earlier law on science and higher education was in force The Ministry decided to create an instance or an appeal institution in the form of a committee at the Minister's office, then at the Minister of Science and Higher Education, and today it was renamed as a committee at the Minister of Education and Science. Something completely natural is the possibility of appealing. I gave examples at the committee meeting of cases such as this, which were indeed cases strongly described... Well, I was gonna say that in literature, but they were really upped by the media. There were reported cases of professors who, because they presented one or another view which was not considered acceptable, were suspended in the performance of their duties, and the reason for this was e.g. the wording or statement relating to the recognition of the definition of a family or marriage as a relationship between a woman and a man, and thus the definition of a family as a community based on such an assumption. There have also been cases of problems of some professors of legal sciences, who because of the fact that e.g. They agreed to find themselves in either the Constitutional Court or in other important and important bodies from the point of view of the functioning of the State, were exposed to very serious consequences in the community of their universities. Here I gave examples of Professor Banaszak or Professor Lech Moravian, but also Professor Cioch, but such examples can be given very much. These cases concerned not only those professors who were treated unchosenly by the environment, but also PhD students of these professors, for example Prof. Wojciech Polak. There are really many examples here. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, this amendment is an amendment aimed at making everyone, whether he is a professor or a worker or working in any other profession, not only have the right to be part of a community, one or another religious community, but also to have the right to admit it publicly, in the space in which he operates, e.g. that he is Catholic, that he is Orthodox, to one or another perspective of the worldview. But as a result, it is also that everyone should have the right to participate actively in public life. It's not like the professor isn't supposed to be a part of public, political life. I am attached to the Krakow tradition of this Krakow tradition maybe for some completely archaic and ancient And there's a very famous text... I apologize to Senator Zdrojewski because I will again collide with the accusation that I quote, but... Michał Bobrzyński once wrote such a very important text for the Krakow environment, in which he pointed out to what was previously important to Józef Szujski, and to Stanisław Tarnowski, and to many others. It is the responsibility of the professor not only to follow and read documents, in sources, but it is also the responsibility of the university professor to take responsibility for this academic space in which he functions, and consequently for the space to which this academic space affects, i.e. for the community in which he lives, in which he operates. So it is not the professor's duty to close himself in this space that we associate with the idea of an ivory tower, but it is the professor's duty to enter this space and to feel this space. Of course, we are also talking about research, scientific work, and I agree that these standards are, of course, very different here. I am outraged by the analysis of this and the statement that here we are opening universities for flatworms or anti-vaccines or anyone else. No, we're just talking about what's involved in attracting professors or lecturers, assistants, assistants to disciplinary responsibility for the world view. We're talking about the academic community here, we're talking about moving in the scientific space. As far as I know, but I am addressing Senator Zdrojewski here, theories concerning the flatness of the Earth or revisionist theories, in terms of Holocaust or revisionist theories, in terms of treating Poles during World War II and assigning Poles a role in the suffering of other nations... I don't think such views are contrary to scientific knowledge, Senator, so please don't raise such arguments in this case. I am of the generation of students who were students in the 1980s, and for me it is completely incomprehensible that whoever is trying to treat the rector today as someone who is overtired, someone who should not take on the responsibility and duty to fight to guarantee the freedom of the students to debate academically. I'm surprised someone thinks that the duties imposed on the rector are to support and organise debate at the level of whether it's employees or... This is also considered an additional burden. I remember the moment perfectly. It was exactly the years 2011 and 2015 when the rector of the Jagiellonian University refused to discuss or debate with the NSZZ.Solidarity on issues related to science and higher education. I remember the actions related to Professor Andrzej Nowak and his master, now I think he was a doctor, Mr Zyzak, when the Ministry of Science and Higher Education intervened on how the work was prepared and whether it had scientific status. Do we really want the power we gave the rectors to go back to the point where the autonomy of the university, yes, will be preserved, but the freedom of scholars will be reduced? I don't think so. And this amendment of the law is heading in this direction to guarantee constitutional autonomy of universities, while guaranteeing constitutional freedoms of scholars, as well as freedom and political rights for those who are scientific employees of Polish universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u357	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I diametrically disagree with the motion to reject the law in its entirety. Unfortunately, I think it is a shame that we have to make such a bill. In a country that boasts freedom of speech, views, etc., we have come to a situation where we have to legally guarantee this freedom where it should be exemplary, or at universities. That's the question I'm asking you. Is it complete to mention here as this model of religious, worldview or philosophical beliefs? Shouldn't science be added here, too? After all, we are also talking about the development of science. In the section 2, we are talking about respect for freedom of speech, teaching, scientific research, publishing their results. All of this focuses on science. Perhaps I am wrong, but I would like to confirm that I am wrong that this criterion should not be added.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u359	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u360	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, thank you very much for this question. The answer will allow me to present not only intentions but also the meaning of the amendment. In fact, everyone who has functioned or functioned in the university space, both someone who apologizes, Mr. Marshal, who is a professor of medical sciences and someone... All the more so is someone who works in humanities. Because value is at the heart of every research process. This is about a system of values that we share, which we receive from outside or in which we are raised. He's making certain choices. Axiology, but also deontology, that is, what is related to learning about duties, all this causes us to have one, not another system of values, but also define our obligations. This also means that some theories are chosen by us as theories which, at our discretion, may be in line with our system of values, and on the other hand, they are theories that are in harmony with our idea of seeking to know the truth. I most often give here an example of 2 perspectives. The first one, the main one, is this. If we are on the basis of a system of values, which is connected with Christianity as such, we make a simple assumption that human nature is the unchanging nature. And if we make the assumption that the nature of man is unchangeable, then in the same layer we assume that there is something called the first law, the fundamental law, the unchangeable law, the eternal law, the rational law. And so on this foundation we begin to build a concept or a theory, through which, taking these basic assumptions, we begin to describe the reality in which we function. This is important, important in humanities, in social sciences, not to mention theology, but it is also important from the point of view of science. Here we could refer to Albert Einstein or Heisenberg or many scholars who, however, always referred to this system of values as something important, something important. I, too, refer to Professor Sztompka, retired professor of Jagiellonian University, who once wrote such a wonderful, in my opinion a good book, a very good book for me, a book that taught me a lot, this is a book p.o.b. Theory and explanation. You could refer to the name Senator Zdrojewski mentioned recently at the committee meeting, Karl Raimund Popper. These are the works that show very strongly how a system of values, like this layer of axiology and deontology, has a big impact on the construction by us as scientific concepts that allow not only to describe but also to understand the surrounding reality, whether in the humanities, social, legal or any other dimension. So, going back to the question you asked the senator, I'm going to say that it is precisely that we are limited in this amendment to pointing out the worldview, the system of values, as the first and the basic one, which is the foundation for every next step that we are going to be doing, whether being students or later, being representatives of a higher level of intellectual commitment to scientific considerations.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u361	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions to ask. Thank you very much, Professor. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the Senators of Sweden, Poor, Bubbles, Matecka and Jazłowiec have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Please. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u362	Ladies and gentlemen, I present communications on committee meetings. The meeting of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee on the examination of applications for the Family Welfare Capital Act will be held tomorrow at 8.30 p.m. in room 182. The joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the examination of the applications submitted at the Senate meeting to the Law on the Protection of Animals Used for Scientific or Educational Purposes will take place on 29 October at 8.30 a.m. in room 176/179. The meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on the examination of the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic will take place tomorrow at 8.30 in room 217. The joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure on the examination of requests submitted to the Act on Guaranteed Housing Credit will take place tomorrow at 8.40 in room 217. The joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of the requests submitted at the meeting to the Act amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production will take place tomorrow at 8.15 in room 176. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of applications submitted at the 30th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forest Land will take place tomorrow at 8.25 p.m. in room 176/179.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-senat-32-2.u363	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. Tomorrow, we begin with the following: information from the Minister for European Union Affairs for the Sejm and the Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of January 2021 ( Portugal's presidency in the Council of the European Union). [[Meeting adjourned at 22 minutes 32]]
