ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u1	I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 11, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 12, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 12, - Public Finance together with the Health Commission - h.m. 13, - Culture and Media - hour 13, - Infrastructure - hour 14, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - Economy and Development - h.m. 15, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 17, - Health-- hour. 17, - Public Finance - hour. 5:30 p.m., - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - hours 19, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 20. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Parliamentary Group will also be meeting today. Mountain Rescue - at 3 p.m. 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not remember such a Sejm, where in practically every session we would worship the memory of the dead parliamentarians with a minute's silence. Today we have a similar situation. I ask you to stand up and Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski to approach the speaker. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 17 September 2021, at the age of 65, Michał Turkiewicz, Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on behalf of the Democratic Left Alliance, died, teacher, self-government officer, bachelor of the Golden Cross of Merit, longtime councilman of the Luban district, well-known and well-liked self-governmentman, for many years president of the Euroregion Nysa. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u4	Thank you very much. We have formal requests. The number of persons submitted to formal applications is longer than the list of formal applications themselves, but let's try. Mr Marek Sawicki, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition of Poland has asked for a recess, a convening of the Seniors Convention and a supplement to the agenda for the information of the Prime Minister, why the European Council has not yet completed the legislative process on changing time from summer to winter and vice versa. Let me remind you that, as a club, we have introduced draft laws to the Sejm many times. At the initiative of Mr Andrzej Grzyb, the European Parliament has adopted an appropriate directive, which the European Council still has and should approve. The Prime Minister is an outstanding member of the Council, so we would like to see the Prime Minister explain why the European Council - and he accepts 80% of Poles and more than 90% of citizens of the European Union, so from various surveys - has not yet completed the legislative process (the bell). Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u6	Thank you, sir. Of course, we will pass the request for a recess, but I will not call the Convention because we had just discussed this at the Convention meeting. As a formal request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For - 203, 230 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Another formal proposal, Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u7	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a formal request for the adjournment of the Sejm until the item on the agenda of the Sejm is: information by Prime Minister Morawiecki on corruption, co-motery [[Applause]] and mass-scale employment of politicians, law and justice activists and their families in State Treasury companies. [[Thieves!]] Three editors, 50 journalists showed the scale of the pathology of the PiS state. Instead of law and justice we have an organized group, we have an octopus that affects every place and institution where PiS rules, and there are law and justice activists who make millions of dollars with their tentacles. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, have organized this country, the pathological state of PiS, and you should stand here today, on the platform, and tell us why you treat this country this way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u8	Thank you. Mr President, we will not vote on this proposal at all because I am drawing up the agenda and you cannot direct this proposal. Here you go, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. [[Why, ma'am?]] That is because I am setting an order, sir, and here was a request for a deferral in order to change order. [[And we'll hire each other as we please.]] I will not change order, sir. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Privatisation or liquidation - Grodzki's doctrine in practice. Yesterday, the Civic Platform, the German Minority and the Polish People's Party closed down a 40-bed branch of psychiatry in the Opole region. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] That's how you rule the Opole Voivodeship. I appeal to the Minister of Health to stop the liquidation of further healthcare facilities in the Opole Voivodeship. You destroyed the Jarnołtówka Sanatorium, you shut down the Opolskie County sanatorium, in Suchy Bora, you thoroughly leveled it. That's exactly how you rule. From this point on, you're always calling for an agreement on health care, so look what you're doing - you're eliminating health care. I call on the Minister of Health to stop the Civil Platform, Donald Tusk, from taking out further healthcare facilities. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u10	Thank you. Since this was not a formal proposal, Mr President, I will not put it to the vote. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This morning, Minister Niedzielski and Minister Kraska reported more than 1,200 cases of COVID, while saying that the fourth wave is beginning. I think it's a good time for us to stop covering our eyes and say that the COVID in Poland is over. We should listen to Minister Niedzielski's information about the preparation for the fourth wave, talk about how to prepare Polish health services reliably, so as not to fall into the crisis of autumn and spring this year, start talking about how a well-organized network of hospitals should look like, and finally talk about increases for medical rescuers, nurses, nurses, and medical services. That's what's missing in Parliament, even though the white town at KPRM is still camping. Prime Minister! Mrs. Marshal! Formal request for adjournment until Minister Niedzielski provides such information. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u12	Mr President, the same again: you cannot expect a break until the Minister presents it. There was a meeting of the Convention, there was a Bureau meeting, you know the order. Therefore, really, sir, please - if you are already making a formal application, then at least yes... [[Masks.]] ...so that it contains any logical justification, Mr. President. Please, Mr Konrad Berkowicz, the Confederation, a formal proposal. [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, masks.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u13	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, a bunch of four, from the godless left to the left, supposedly pious, united under one banner of totalitarian practices... [[Voice from the room: Mask!]] ...and it's totalitarian practices of an exceptionally bad authorage, i.e. consisting in the segregation of people - the segregation of people once again in history, but this time in medical, sanitary terms. The Confederation submitted a draft law on sanitary segregation in June, and the authorities have so far pretended that this project does not exist. The project was not brought into session. Question: "What are you afraid of, and why are the democrats here, constitutional defenders not shouting that this is not fair?" Are you afraid it'll pass? No, you have voting machines. You're afraid to talk about it at all, because it's a new crime to say that you can't separate people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. That's why I'm asking you to take a break so you can get some courage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It wasn't very good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u14	Thank you very much, sir. It wasn't a formal conclusion. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u15	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The state has fallen into a network of cognition, nepotism, political corruption. You're taking every chance to own state property... [[The statements are at the end.]] ...and then use these resources to strengthen your power. [[Formal conclusion!]] Mr. President! You were supposed to fight nepotism. Where's the fight? The Treasury companies have ceased to be a tool for the provision of high-quality public services and have become a place of employment for party officers, from whom loyalty is required instead of competence. [[The statements are at the end.]] I request that you adjourn or close, as your marshal will, this sitting so that Prime Minister Morawiecki can prepare for the citizens a report on who and for what financed his election campaign. Citizens have the right to know what to buy places and work in companies of the Treasury. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President, but please leave me no choice but to postpone or close the sitting because this is ridiculous. We are not voting on this proposal because I do not know what it was about. We proceed with the consideration of items 1 and 2 of the agenda: I would very much like to ask those of you who will not attend this point to leave the Chamber as quickly as possible. And Minister Sebastian Skuza, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, please provide justification for the draft laws contained in prints 1585, 1585-A and 1586 respectively. Minister, we will wait just a moment for the Members who are not taking part in the deliberations at this point to leave the room. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal once again - we have a serious budget law, so if anyone is not interested or has other activities to leave the Chamber as quickly as possible so that the Minister can present the projects. Minister, please, we're good to go. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]] All right. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, here we go. There's always a moment in the beginning, we'll try to shorten it. The Minister has the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u17	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to present to you a draft law amending the budget law for 2021. The original draft budget law for 2021 was drawn up in the middle of last year, i.e. in a situation of high uncertainty not only with regard to the projected trends in the economy in the current year, but also with regard to the macroeconomic situation and expected trends in the following quarters of 2020. At that time, it was extremely difficult to predict the final scale and structure of the collapse of economic activity caused by the outbreak of the COVID pandemic. This made it difficult to predict the level of real gross domestic product in the second half of 2020, especially as there was a large uncertainty about the continuation of the pandemic. This high uncertainty has translated into a very cautious preparation of forecasts, especially with regard to the dynamics of economic activity in 2020. However, economic performance in the second half of 2020 and in the first half of 2021, including Thanks to stronger fiscal support, they have proved to be much better than expectations, despite the fact that during this period there have been two more waves of pandemics, which have temporarily led to stronger administrative restrictions aimed at reducing the spread of pandemics. In the fourth quarter of 2020, GDP fell by a quarter to a quarter of 0,3%, but already in the first quarter of 2021 the quarter by a quarter increased by 1.3%. Today, we already know that only in the first half of 2021, GDP has increased by 5% in real terms by one year to one year. Real GDP is projected to increase by 4.9% throughout 2021 as compared to an increase of 4% planned in the draft budget law and budget law for 2021. The macroeconomic situation presented this year is much more favourable from the point of view of the budgetary revenue collection process. The positive impact of economic recovery is particularly evident in tax revenues. This category of revenue of the state budget can ultimately be higher by up to PLN 55.7 billion, i.e. by more than 15% , from the originally planned amounts. In view of the above, given the better macro-economic situation in Poland and the increased budgetary revenue, it is crucial that our budgetary policy can also serve as a tool to further support and stimulate economic growth. The main figures in the revision of the State budget for the current year would be as follows. Following the implementation of the amendment, which I am presenting herein, the projected total revenue of the state budget in 2021 would amount to PLN 483 billion, i.e. by PLN 78,5 billion more than was foreseen in the original budget law. It is worth noting that tax revenues in this year can amount to up to PLN 424.8 billion. In addition to tax revenues there will also be higher revenues from CO2 auctions. There was also a higher contribution from the profit of NBP as well as dividends. The increased revenue generated by the State is planned to be used not only to significantly reduce the maximum deficit planned in the Budget Act, but also to increase expenditure in specific expenditure areas. Therefore, the limit set in the draft amendment to the Budget Act for the year 2021 is PLN 523.5 billion, which means that it will be higher than that planned in the original Budget Act by more than PLN 36.7 billion. What would be the main expenditure groups in the revision of the budget law? This is primarily the support of local government units in carrying out their own tasks as part of a comprehensive mechanism to stabilise and strengthen the finances of local government units in connection with the implementation of the Polish Load programme; to increase the expenditure on support for local authorities in the implementation of investments mainly on municipal and district roads; to allocate additional funds to the development of modern and ecological forms of rail and transport; additional funds for the continuation of the process of modernising and increasing the operational capacity of the Armed Forces, for the ongoing functioning and investment tasks of police, Border Guard and State Fire Departments; to transfer additional funds to the incentive fund for employees of the budgetary sphere; additional support for people with disabilities through the power of RARS and PFRON; to increase resources for higher education and science institutions to carry out investment tasks; to increase expenditure on financing of cultural, agricultural and hard coal mining tasks. The proposed project found that the deficit at 31 December 2021 would be no more than PLN 40.5 billion, i.e. as much as PLN 41.8 billion less than the budget law for 2021. Ladies and gentlemen! Given the current macroeconomic situation and the possible negative situation for the economy, the consequences of the ongoing COVID pandemic, the Council of Ministers decided to adopt a proposal to amend this year's budget. This would allow additional funding to be provided, inter alia. on investment and development tasks in order to further stimulate the economy and mitigate the negative effects of the pandemic. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's meeting, together with the draft amendment to the budget law and the self-correction, will also consider the so-called draft. a budget law. The main solutions contained in this project relate to changes in remuneration in the public finance sector. In place of institutional maintenance of the level of remuneration, it is proposed to introduce a mechanism to increase remuneration after obtaining the approval of the Minister or another supervisory authority and the approval of the Minister responsible for public finances. The Around Budget Act also provides for the creation of an additional 6-percent incentive fund for employees of budgetary units. Here I must say that in 2021 the so-called was not planned. The 3 per cent prize fund and these actions in some way compensate for what was not granted to employees due to the very prudent approach at the beginning of this year in the Budget Act. It is also necessary to refer to the situation of 2020 when administrative decisions were blocked by measures, including wage appropriations. The draft law also proposes solutions that implement government announcements in the area of local government units and their investment tasks. This mainly concerns the support of local government units with additional resources of PLN 4 billion, it is a kind of investment subsidy for water and sewerage tasks. So in addition to PLN 8 billion, which I already had the honour to inform here in this Chamber when discussing the income law of local government units, local government units in this year would receive PLN 4 billion for investment tasks in the area of water and sewers. In order to stimulate and further maintain the country's dynamic economic development and improve the state of the road network, including local infrastructure, it is also appropriate to increase the flow of funds from the state budget to the government road fund. One of the government's priorities is pro-family policy and, within the framework of it, action to develop a childcare system for children up to 3 years of age, including through the "Milch+" programme. It is therefore proposed to extend until 30 November 2022 the deadline for the use of expenditure incurred by the Labour Fund for the "Milch+' programme. The project also provides for additional support from the state budget of special funds and other entities to carry out health, public safety, fire protection, national defence, antiquities, as well as initiatives for people with disabilities. In addition, support is envisaged for railway infrastructure managers to maintain railway infrastructure renovations and capital investments. Support for the implementation of investment processes would also be provided through the Around Budget Act and the provisions of the Budgetary Act of universities and institutes operating in the Research Network of Łukasiewicz. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the provisions presented in the draft budget law, the self amendment and the around budget law, I ask the High House to accept them in the proposed wording. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u18	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 7-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and 3-minute statements on behalf of the circles in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to make a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the budget law for 2021, print No 1585, including the self-correction, print No 1585-A, and around budget law, print No 1586. We are in a situation, one can say, unique, because we are updating the budget after a very difficult period, and it is a budget of surprisingly good implementation. Let me put it this way: this scale of budget implementation and this flow of revenue probably did not dream of anyone, not even the finance minister, not to mention the governing coalition. Probably also the opposition did not think that the implementation of the budget during the first six months of 2021 could be so excellent. In fact, it is very good. This is a nominal increase of over PLN 40 billion year by year. Although, as always to be remembered, this 2020 base was, of course, the basis of the pandemic period, these growths exceeded the wildest expectations. Economic growth was very significant and significant in 2021. In the initial budget for 2021, we assumed that economic growth would be 4%. Now we're updating it, and it turns out it's 4.9%. Few of this, the expected drop in economic income in 2020 was 4.9% , and as a result of good economic policy, this decrease was only 2,7%. We have over 3 percent GDP growth, as if in the stock we're distributing now. This is, of course, the result of an excellent economic policy and an appropriate transition through the pandemic period. Hence, these two factors, which overlap, allow to increase revenue by more than PLN 75 billion. This is really an extraordinary result. I think that they will be even higher, even higher than those envisaged in the revision of the budget. The Ministry of Finance should always predict carefully and I believe that in this case this forecast is also very cautious and that there is a margin of security left here. Thanks to the fact that, as we predict, revenue growth will be higher than planned by over PLN 75 billion, one can reduce the planned deficit by half, which is more than PLN 40 billion, which is an extraordinary phenomenon. I remember how many, many years ago, in the days of our predecessors, when we revised the budget, the deficit was increased, not reduced, so here is the event. In addition to the fact that we are reducing the deficit, we are also increasing spending to stimulate the economy and increase investment opportunities. We increase expenditure in this budget by over PLN 36 billion. Is that where the income comes from? The main source of revenue and the increase in these revenues are above all the significantly increased VAT receipts. By 55 billion, VAT revenues are rising to 214 billion. And recently, because a few years ago, VAT revenues did not exceed PLN 100 billion. This is, of course, the effect of many factors: firstly, economic development, but also one must remember with VAT sealing system, because more than 100 percent increase in VAT for several years This is not an accidental action or an accidental phenomenon. VAT is rising by PLN 33 billion this year, so this is indeed the main position of revenue growth. Thanks to the fact that there's an excellent increase in income... But one more income I'd like to draw attention to. The income from CIT, i.e. corporation tax, is expected to increase by PLN 12 billion. What does that say? This demonstrates the excellent condition of the economy, because the CIT tax is actually the most visible element of growth and growth. It's the most visible thing here. The increase in CIT tax by more than 12 billion proves the excellent condition of the Polish economy. What, then, are the expenses that can be made? Well, as the Minister mentioned, in defence of the national 7 billion - I think it is never too much money here, because we know the situation in the international arena, which we have neighbours, and here the increase in expenditure on national defence is our duty - for science and education higher 1 billion PLN, for transport of more than 10 billion, including for railways about 6 billion, for roads about 4 billion PLN. So these are the next expenses, the most important investment expenditure. For internal affairs, too, over 3 billion. I think it's also connected, among others. with the enormous tasks that these services face, including those related to illegal immigration. But also from the budget - I stress: from the budget only - over PLN 1 billion goes to health care because I ignore that... [[And 2 billion for TVP.]] ...health service is financed mainly from the National Health Fund. There, these revenues are in the National Health Fund and they are of course growing well. It is worth noting that for local governments already this year, first of all, this subsidy compensates for the losses in the tax of PIT 8 billion, but there will also be 4 billion (the bell) for expenditure related to water and sewage investments. Of course, the around budget law, which I will not pay any attention to here, is a natural consequence of changes in the budget. She allows you to realize these increased expenditures, including - I am very happy - also spending on the administration, which over the previous year had frozen expenditure and now receives 6% more financial resources. Therefore, I strongly stress: Law and Justice will support this budget, which is very much needed for Poles, very much needed for the Polish economy, is a forward-looking and developmental budget after the pandemic period. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u20	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Dariusz Rosati, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u21	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Minister, last week the government came to this House with a draft tax bill, which raises tribute to all Poles by 9% due to the elimination of the possibility of deduction of health contributions. [[That's not true!]] This is justified by the statement on the first page of the explanatory memorandum of the bill that budgetary revenues are falling due to the pandemic and that new solutions are needed to stabilise and increase budgetary revenues. In short, you presented the situation so that you simply have no money and you need to raise these fees. Today, after a week, you come here and on behalf of the Prime Minister and the entire government you say: it is great, we have plenty of money, we have almost 80 billion extra income. Minister! When did you cheat us? A week ago or now? [[Applause]] A week ago, when you came up with this bill that raises the burden of deduction of health contributions, didn't you know that you had an amendment already prepared at that time? You knew that. Minister, why didn't you tell this House? Nobody knew. [[Applause]] The fact that the opposition didn't know is understandable, but you guys didn't know that after a week there would be 80 billion people who didn't know from where. [[That's next year, and that's this year, that's what this is about.]] You're just really miracle workers. That's all I'm gonna say, Minister, is that you cheated on us and a week ago, and now. [[The bill next year will be.]] A week ago, just because you knew, the Prime Minister already had an 80 billion-dollar revision project on his desk and you didn't tell us, and you're cheating now because it's not true that this 80 billion is the result of some wonderful economic policy project. President Kowalczyk tried to convince us that this is the result of a great government policy. I'm going to explain that it's the other way around. All these amounts, 80 billion, etc., are mainly due to two factors: the decline in income last year and the previous year... This was fully aware of the activity, because tax revenues were understated by more than PLN 12 billion in the 2020 amendment, precisely because you predicted that nominal GDP would fall by 1.2%. and a drop in tax revenues by more than 4%. More importantly, the same maneuver also applied to the draft budget for the current year, which you now want to update. You predicted the nominal GDP growth this year by more than 6%, and at the same time you predicted that taxes would fall by 1%. I do not know if this was the result of conscious action so that Prime Minister Morawiecki could come here in the company of ministers, pull the rabbit out of the hat and say: we are in great control, you see, dear fellow countrymen, as we are economy, we have 80 billion extra money. Or was it rather the result of misconceptions, Minister, misconceptions and manipulations? You have a choice. Answer me. It's either like this or it's like this. Anyway, it's embarrassing, [[Applause]] I'll be honest with you. Because if one fifth of the budget revenue can be wrong within six months, then I must say that the inability to construct the country's most important financial document, which is the budget, is simply shocking. [[Applause]] Let me recap. The decline in tax revenues in the 2020 novel amounted to around 12 billion, the decline in tax revenues in the budget for this year - over 15 billion, i.e. 27 billion. Let's keep counting. You assumed inflation would be 1.8%. You've already assumed it's going to be 4.3%. That's an extra 13 billion, 12 And finally, you included a sack in it, and you put a one-off income in it. Thanks to the upside of ETS prices in Europe, you have 13 or 14 billion more in the budget. So this is not some wonderful policy, Mr Kowalczyk, dear Mr Kowalczyk, unless you have such influence in Europe that you have raised the prices of emission permits to such a level. Maybe you also influenced copper prices, because this will increase the fossil tax by PLN 2 billion. If you're so perverse, congratulations. But I think all of this was out of your control. As a result we had as a result of these discounts, as I said, a total of over PLN 27 billion, as a result of inflation - PLN 13 billion and as a result of additional one-off influences... In total, this amounts to 62 billion, ladies and gentlemen. As far as the projected budget growth is concerned, we have 62 billion in 77 billion with a cut, which result from factors that are completely independent or from your inability, as I said, and from the missed forecasts. [[What about the other 15?]] Now it's a matter of expenses. We are happy that there is an increase in spending for local governments by 12 billion, but actually our joy ends here. Because we cannot understand why when 485 thousand died in Poland last year. people when we have 140,000. excess deaths, when health care protests continue, only PLN 1 billion go to health care. We can't figure it out. Either you don't see it, or you're not interested in it at all. You should be ashamed of yourselves. You have so much money in the budget and you want to spend on the army. Where's the war, I'm sorry? There's a war going on in hospitals, in S.R.s. [[Applause]] There's a real war because Poles die there. And you only give 1 billion zloty. Another area of crisis - education. Teachers quit by profession, they've gone over 12,000 in the last six months. This is due to various factors, but they lose hope of any future in this profession due to the policies of the Ministry of Education and Minister Czarnek. You do not give anything for education - 14 million PLN. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who, on the other hand, is gaining? The law firm of the Prime Minister - an increase of 60%, two hundred and several million zlotys. I have an offer at the end, Minister. Give this to the Prime Minister. The 200 million for which the Prime Minister's budget is to be increased, put aside the special reserve to pay the penalties imposed by the TSUE in relation to Turov. You're probably gonna have to pay those penalties, so I'm gonna give you an amendment right away. I would like to say that the Civic Coalition Club will not vote against this project. We want to work on it. We are, as I said, satisfied with a whole range of solutions. There's money for local governments, there's money for the budget sphere to raise salaries. But we will make amendments that will change the fundamental structure of the proposed expenditure. Health care, education, housing, energy, clean air - these are priorities, Minister, and not at the moment additional expenditure on the army or on the service. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u22	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, when debating this bill, you can say this: David Copperfield should come here and learn from you when it comes to mysterious tricks. 'Cause even he can't come up with that kind of thing. The great budgetary magic is all about itself. What you're proposing today is obviously a lot of manipulation. The question is, when indeed, Minister, you were telling the truth - whether at the moment when we approved the budget bill for this year or at the moment. We note that the control of NIK has shown that 290 billion PLN is outside the budget. You're not talking about the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund, about BGK, about the financial resources hidden there, which are the real debt of the budget. You're talking about GDP growth, you're talking about inflation rates, you're talking about revenue that's going up to 80 billion zlotys. Question: "How do they grow by 80 billion?" Let's combine this with your bill that says there's going to be a tax-free amount of $30,000. zł. 18 million Poles and Poles will benefit from this. Let us also tell the Poles and Poles that, unfortunately, they will benefit nothing from this. 'Cause what, the VAT increase? We say: great, VAT increases... 30 billion PLN... But just to be clear, this VAT we pay, we all pay. This increase in VAT revenues by 18% is the real inflation that we are dealing with today. This is what today also charges each of those 18 million Poles who earn up to 30,000. or 45,000. per year. We are talking about an increase in excise duty - we pay for electricity, we pay for fuel, of course excise duty must increase. We are talking about the increase in CIT tax, Mr President says that companies are developing well - costs are rising, prices are rising, so today the final product is costing more and we all have to pay more for it again. Of course, there are 8 billion from NBP, and the question is: did you not know how you planned the budget for this year that there would be 8 billion? You are talking about the influences from CO2 certificates at the level of 13 billion PLN, the price of electricity is rising by 30%, we are selling certificates now, we have 13 billion ahead, and all Poles will pay for it of course. As far as expenditure is concerned, there are indeed a number of elements here that can be accepted, but there are several elements that are absolutely unacceptable. Minister Rosati has already talked about matters relating to military expenditure. In such a situation, military spending is an absolutely sick idea. Today we need to spend most of our time on health care. But this is what we will be presenting during committee meetings and during second reading. The Left Club is in favour of continuing to debate this project. As for the labour issue, Mr Adrian Zandberg. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u24	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u25	High Izbo! A few months ago, I heard in this hysterical room that supposedly there was no money and there will be no money, only this time this hysterical sounded out of the benches of Law and Justice and that you justified the savings in the budget, the cuts at the expense of employees. Today you can see that this hysteria was simply unnecessary, because the money in the budget is and you admit it today. So there is nothing to wait for, you have to finally give the Polish budget a decent raise, because the cost of living, energy costs, gas prices also increase for them and people who work for the Polish country should not wonder if they have anything to pay the bills from. When the government was freezing wages in the budget, I also warned from this speaker that this is weakening the Polish state. Unfortunately, you didn't listen, you jumped into Tusk's shoes willingly, and the effects can be seen with the naked eye today, because experienced professionals are fleeing the budget, the number of vacancies increases, employees of key public institutions work on the streets. Clamping this belt on the belly of workers, many of whom still earn pennies, was a really embarrassing act of populism and a decision which from the budget point of view was simply unnecessary. Well, it's a good thing that a terrible wage choking rule disappears from the bill, but it's a shame you had to protest in the streets, in the demonstrations, in the strike wards in the next sectors and institutions to force you to do so. Unfortunately, it is not enough to remove this provision that freezes the salary. The increases for the budget cannot be discretionary and must cover all. And in this bill, instead of a general increase, you put in discretionary incentives. The union reps are talking out loud about where it's gonna end. They say the bosses will give raises to the chosen ones, and the people who fought for higher salaries for everyone, they organized protests, they'll stay with bare wages. Is this how it's supposed to look? Ladies and gentlemen, a one-time award, given out by grace, after consideration, will not solve the problem of miserable wages in the Polish budget. Here you need a system raise that covers everyone. That's what protesting probation officers demand, that's what inspectors demand, that's what a number of officials want, and that's what a coalition club of the Left wants to bring in a raise like this. That is why we will make an amendment to this law, an amendment in line with the expectations of trade unions, whose expectations are really modest. Minister Kowalczyk, a few weeks ago you raised your own salaries by several thousand zlotys. You didn't regret the money for the ministers, you didn't regret the money for the prime minister, you didn't regret the money for the president. Budget workers really don't want much, they just want a modest, 12-percent raise for everyone. You can afford to raise those salaries. And I hope that this amendment to the coalition club of the Left will be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the budget law presented by the Government for 2021 is very optimistic. The following questions arise, comments. In the initial budget law for 2021, the government has lowered a number of indicators. As regards VAT revenue in 2020 when the recession was, minus 2,8% GDP, this decreased, these VAT revenues amounted to PLN 184 billion. And for 2021, the government in the budget law planned VAT revenues for 181 billion, which is lower, although it assumed a 4% increase in GDP. and 1.8% inflation. The actual VAT revenue should be set at around 195 and 197 billion, which means that about 15 billion have been hidden, which has now been shown. Another element is the increase in inflation. In the original budget, only 1.8% of prices were assumed to increase. Now it's changed to 4.3, there's going to be more. This is another 15 billion, 16 billion surplus, which is due to inflation, which, of course, is beneficial for the government, for the budget, there are also lower public debt costs, while the public pays for it. It's the end of September, the end of the third quarter. We've got an increasing incidence. We do not know the scale, the consequences for the economy as a whole. Are we prepared for this, or should we put certain safeguards in this revised budget? The improved performance of the economy in the second half of 2020 and in the first half of 2021 are the result of significant state financial support, namely the anti-crisis shields, which took place at the expense of debt growth, mainly outside the budget. The Polish Development Fund, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and 51 new funds, which have been created since 2016, are indebted on behalf of the State to finance government programmes, excluding the parliamentary and national definition of state public debt. This leads to an uncontrolled increase in non-budget debt. We actually have a second budget out of the budget. Of course, it is important to highlight the very high activity of companies, both in terms of maintaining production and in terms of maintaining employment, for which they should be thanked. The projected reduction in the budget deficit in 2021 is the result of the projected increase in budgetary revenue compared to that planned in the original budget law for 2021. The increase in state income is due to the rise in taxes, CO2 auction revenues and dividends and payments by NBP, ZBP. The government, when presenting an amendment to the budget, does not adequately address the impact of inflation on budgetary revenues, but also on the negative consequences for the economy, as I said. Secondly, the proceeds from the CO2 auction should be allocated to the modernisation of the energy sector and, mostly, were transferred to the ongoing financing of budgetary needs, probably within a limit of PLN 15.17 billion. NBP's monetary policy does not serve the basic objective of maintaining the value of money and more the budgetary objectives of government policy. As far as expenditure is concerned, it is, of course, appropriate to increase the expenditure and supply of local authorities for various purposes. One might wonder if more resources should be directed here. It is right to increase the resources for the investments of the fire department - although only state-owned and not voluntary - of the police, the Border Guard, while spending on the Armed Forces is already high, and it should therefore be considered whether there is a need to increase them. We're talking a little bit about this threat. I don't think we're talking about a war threat. The scale of the proposed growth in other areas is a little funny. If in such a situation we spend PLN 1 billion on health, when we have protesters, when we know what the debt of county hospitals is, this shows a disrespectful approach to this professional group. We do not spend anything on education, spending on financing threats in agriculture is very small, but the problems of energy transformation, climate change or environmental issues are ignored at all. Finally, a few minor comments. Economic support should take into account the situation in which it is located. There are hijacked supply chains, we have a supply problem, and therefore certain intervention measures should be taken to link these chains, fix them. I was talking about inflation. Of course, in the short term, it's convenient for the budget, for the government, but it's dangerous when it comes to the longer term. This is an extra tax that will pay the public. Finally, please note that the investment rate has fallen dramatically below 17%, and yet Prime Minister Morawiecki announced in his strategy for responsible development that it will reach 25%. Investments are a developmental element, they are the basis of the economy. Finally, when it comes to debt problems, I was talking about debt problems. Finally, I would like to say that this budget is just such a sham budget. and that the state budget lost its rank. Many things happen outside the state budget, apart from news and informing the Sejm, which is detrimental to the economy and the state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u28	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today in the Seym an unusual situation. The government is proposing a revision of the budget, and as rarely happens, it turns out that it is surprised that the situation in the country is better than the government itself expected. What does that show us? Firstly, the situation does not correspond to the black scenarios that were drawn by the media. The Pandemic did not cut the roots of the Polish economy, the government failed to destroy this economy, you can say, because it was the Confederation that protested against lockdowns and the government wanted to push them. Had it not been for our protests, perhaps we would have been in a much worse situation if it had not been for the protests of Polish entrepreneurs, if it had not been for the protests of grassroots social movements against the politics that you thoughtlessly copied from abroad. Today, after more than a year of experiments in different countries around the world, it is clear that this policy does not have the results that you intended to achieve. Luckily, black scripts, which, as you can see, you believed didn't work out. The question is whether in other cases you are also copying bad solutions from abroad and leading to unpredictable results for you. The second thing that's worth pointing out is numbers. 78 billion zlotys more in the budget than the government predicted. What's the government planning to do about it? If we really gave up on extra expenses, and here we see that there will be increased expenditure for very different purposes, both wise and needed and debatable, we would hardly have a deficit. Turns out the tax increases we've been criticizing over the last few years weren't really necessary. Every time we argued that, for example. You don't need to introduce double taxation of limited companies, you don't need to tighten the tax screw in dozens of different increases, you said: you have to, this is the necessary money. Today, you admit the Confederacy's point. You have tens of billions you've never seen before. You could have let people live, run their businesses, not turn their lives and working conditions upside down. And today you're admitting it by bringing in this revision of the budget. Next thing you know, it's worth talking about. The value of the money you discover today in the budget, and you haven't shown it before, is almost as much as we're going to get from the European Union in those grants they're calculating for you. And it's time to ask a question. If we have the money, why did you sell Polish sovereignty at the EU summit last July? Why are you bringing us into the debt system? Why are you putting us in Euro taxes in exchange for the money we have? [[Applause]] Because we are going to get an equivalent of about PLN 100 billion from the Union, you show that there is PLN 78 billion, and the rest of this amount is loans that we will be paying back by 2058. Next case and last case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you don't mind, I'll finish. The question of raising money for your own expenses. I'll just give you one example. Budget of the Prime Minister's Office: 2015 - PLN 147 million, 2018 - more than twice as much as PLN 342 million. This year it will be PLN 594 million, and next year you planned more than four times more - PLN 800 million. Maybe you need that money, maybe you spend it wisely. I'm having second thoughts. But ask yourself, " What does it look like from the perspective of all the other public sector workers who see that the budgets of their individuals are standing still, and you do four or five times yourself, you don't know how many times? As much as you need, that's what you take from the state money for yourselves. And you wonder later that people are protesting? There's no reason to be surprised. Any predictable scenario is needed, a strategy for increasing the wages of people who work in the public sector. You're glad you've done a lot of inflation, so respond to what you've generated, and at least try to make sure that the purchasing power of wages is kept at the same level. Difficult? You're presenting an amendment to the budget, and the finance minister didn't care about it, and that's what we'd expect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The higher revenue to the state budget is unfortunately not a result of the economy of the government, it is a result of ordinary extortion. There's high inflation. Price increases, we pay more for electricity, food, fuel, all kinds of services. And the government? What's the government doing? It deletes more revenue to the state budget, even with VAT. Yes, Mr President, it is inflation, which frightens citizens today, that the drastic rise in prices for products that meet the basic needs of life is the main driving force behind the increase in revenue to the state budget. In the original draft budget, the planned inflation rate for this year was 1.8%. In the revision of the budget, inflation is expected to reach 4.3% on average, and we know that it is in fact even higher. So the effect is exactly what I said. Citizens pay more for shopping, for maintaining their apartment, for transporting their children to work or for transporting them to school. They also lose their savings because interest rates do not reflect inflation. And the government wipes their hands and deletes the money. There is no reason to limit price increases somehow. The amendment of the budget is also intended to give a higher profit to the National Bank of Poland. So President Glapiński instead of leaning on the problem, think about how to control inflation and drastic price increases, what does he do? He's playing speculation transactions on gold to make a higher profit for NBP and save the budget, contribute money to the budget. The role of the National Bank of Poland, ladies and gentlemen, is to stabilise the monetary policy of the state, to ensure the economic stability of citizens, not to play with speculators. The amendment also takes account of higher revenues from the sale of CO2 rights. Originally, the sale of greenhouse gas emission allowances was expected to result in a little more than PLN 10 billion in the budget. Now you estimate that it will be as much as PLN 24 billion, that is close to PLN 14 billion more. This money should be spent, as recommended by the European Union, on building new, clean, cheap energy sources to protect us from the drastic rise in electricity prices. Guess if the amendment increases energy expenditure in Poland. It's $1400,000. zł. Are you guys crazy? Aren't you really going to protect Poles from rising electricity prices, from energy poverty, from the uncompetitiveness of our economy? When are you guys gonna get to work? We're all scared. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a drastic increase in electricity prices. Enea requested a 40% increase in electricity prices, and the government simply enjoys higher revenues from emission rights, instead of considering how to invest this money in order to provide us with new, clean and cheaper energy sources, how to protect Poles from energy poverty. 1,400 thousand. zł is really not enough for Polish and Polish wallets to be protected from. It's not enough to support our economy in the transformation process. Mrs... Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done. The clubs had seven minutes, we have just as long a bill to discuss. Just like the energy problem, you underestimate the health care problem. You increase the MON budget by nearly PLN 7 billion and spend PLN 1 billion on health. Education - it has already been mentioned. Mrs... Teachers are quitting their jobs, the government of prescriptions is gone. This amendment is a simple feeding on Polish and Polish wallets. Citizens pay more, as I said, for shopping, they lose their savings, and the government wipes their hands and erases their revenue to the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u32	Thank you. Mr Richard Galla, not associated. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will use the example of my previous speaker, who said that there is PLN 7 billion for national defence, and only PLN 1 billion for health protection. I subscribe to Mr Rosati's request: more for health. And I will use today's example when, at the beginning of the Sejm, Mr Janusz Kowalski made an appeal to the Minister of Health to intervene in the Opole Voivodeship because one of the psychiatric departments is closing there. That is correct, in order to secure access to medical services, to properly secure these medical services, for the rational functioning of the hospital, we make such a difficult decision there: we close, or rather, I would say, we suspend the operation of this branch, because there is no financial means for the operation of the three branches that are there, and there is no medical staff - first of all, we lack staff - and in return for this suspended psychiatric unit we open the psychiatric ZOL. Specialists know what's going on. I think this is a good solution, although I would also like to see more psychiatric units not only in the Opole Voivodeship, but also in Poland as a whole. There are two reasons for the difficult situation in Polish psychiatry. The first is the number of medical staff that is constantly declining in these hospitals - it goes to private institutions or clinics - the second, more important, connected with today's debate, is a matter of financial resources. The Ministry was tempted to calculate how much psychiatry really costs. When they saw what the amount was - silence. You don't talk about it until today. I would therefore like to appeal: let's sit at the table, let's look at how much health care really costs, and let's make sure that the right resources are provided. I would therefore like to appeal to the Minister to point out how he will lean on the issue of this psychiatric unit, for the very reason of such a decision rather than another one. Ladies and gentlemen! As a member of the Committee on Public Finance for many years interested in the protection of national heritage and religious beliefs, national minorities, I would like, Mr President, to speak on this subject and call for the measures proposed in part 24 to be used as best as possible. And Mr President knows that money is best used locally. I would therefore like to appeal: more money from the budget for monument conservationists. I'm saying it again. Once, the imbalance, and two, indeed, this amount of resources is really insufficient. What about the situation in the field? Historic conservationists put very harsh conditions, I understand, you have to take care of the monuments, but if that's the case, they must also be able to obtain financial support. I could give many examples of private investors who spend tens of millions of zlotys, and to this day they have not even received a zloty from the state budget. Let us note that really the resources that are hitting and which are quite substantial, quite, I would say, visible, in the most rational way they are used. And, of course, part of it. 43: Religious confessions and national and ethnic minorities. Thank you so much for the amount that came out there. When I saw that this amount was over PLN 16 million, I said: Jesus, what will national minorities do with this money? But this is the money that goes to the Church Fund. Of course, I also recognise these needs, but, Mr President, Minister of Home Affairs responsible for the issue of national and ethnic minorities, would it not be worthwhile to add some resources every year, increasing this pool for national and ethnic minorities? I can say with full responsibility that the situation is that the needs are several times greater than the amount of money that is being offered to us. However, it is not about securing all these needs in some way, but about systematically, from year to year, but increasing this amount, according to the tradition of what it was. So on this point, my appeal to increase these resources. The last thing I want to bring up - I have more than a minute - is the voivodeship budget. I will say this: I know that Opolskie voivodship is the smallest voivodship, but that does not mean that the amount must always be the smallest. You can look at this in the context of monument conservationists and the resources we have there, and somehow increase this amount. And finally, out of budget, Mr. Marshal, I have a favor to ask of you. Today I joined the general debate only because there is a new custom in the Seym. I experienced this in the previous sitting when you were conducting the deliberations of Marshal Terlecki. I was enrolled in the question, and at the same time it turned out that I had no right. Could there be such situations that a Member of the Republic of Poland representing national and ethnic minorities, a German minority, may not have the right to ask a question? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u34	You must speak when I am in session. You won't have any problems. [[Yeah, but it can't be Terlecki's problem for the Sejm.]] Ladies and gentlemen, am I addressing the Platform's messengers, or do any of the ladies want to scream something else? [[Applause, joy in the hall]] What's with the tone? Really, you don't have to scream, you can talk to each other normally. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Mr. Marshal, you don't need a comment, really.]] Well, an unnecessary comment in response to unnecessary behavior. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. I have the following... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Do you want to come here, Mrs. Messenger? [[Of course.]] Come on in. You're welcome. I'm listening. [[Mr. Marshal's statement in such a tone was unnecessary. You're making it smaller. You weren't there when it happened. If the marshal benefits from his chair and speaks, so does Marshal Terlecki. How are we supposed to react? Why don't you tell us? We're being very cultural. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much for your explanation. As you can see, we can talk calmly without yelling at each other. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a warm request for you. The votes will probably be held at the end of the day. 12.15. I'd like you to allow us to make it by then. 44 people are asked for questions. Then there's the response from the ministry. I'm setting time for one minute. If you don't mind, I'm gonna stick with this pretty rigorously, because we still have 45 minutes left to debate this. You're welcome. [[Voice from the Chamber: But this is a budget debate.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Budget debate, Marshal.]] [[The voice in the courtroom:...says nothing, the marshal will find his answer.]] You don't have to attack me. I'm not attacking you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we agreed today in the Seym Hall that, as far as clubs are concerned, they have 7 minutes for wheels - 3 and, as far as questions are concerned, there is a minute for them. I don't want to change that. I'm closing the list of people who have been put to the discussion. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go. Are you an MP? I can't see. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we've exceeded 1 000. COVID disease. There is a shortage of COVID wards, branch blockades are starting, which will block diagnostics and problems when it comes to treatment of diseases other than COVID. There are ongoing protests from the medical community. How will the government negotiate with them if only PLN 1 billion is foreseen in heading 46 for the National Health Fund, and for the Minister of Health PLN 27 million is foreseen? How will it increase, for example, the valuation of benefits? This is an urgent need. The average wage from the perspective of health workers - this is not their interest, this applies to all Poles and Poles especially during the period of the worsening epidemic - is expected to increase in the economy by 7.4% (Bell) with 3.4% assumed... consumption of 4.3%, and inflation will of course not be 4% It's just gonna be taller. The president of our central bank does nothing, cynically speaking for political reasons... Thank you very much, sir. ...that because inflation is rising, but wages are also rising, nothing is happening. This is a dramatic situation for our country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u36	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome. Marek Sawicki asked the question whether there would be a vote, because during the club speeches there was no request. If there was such a situation that such a proposal was made during the course of the questions, Mr President, that is what we have generally recognised, and I am therefore unable to say whether there will be a vote or not. So I stick to the hour. 12.15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The fact that health is seven times less important than the army is already known. We see this in the changes to the state budget for 2021. I wanted to ask you about the self-correction reported yesterday by the Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport. It is an additional PLN 120 million for archival and research activities of the Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude. Witold Pilecki. That's a question directly to the Minister. As Prime Minister Gliński is not here, I would ask for a written reply. Why aren't these measures designed to nurture traces of history in the form of Polish monuments? Why aren't they dedicated directly to competitions, grants, renovations and maintenance of these monuments? Why weren't they handed over directly to the provincial monument conservators? I would like to emphasize in particular how (the bell) few funds were transferred to the Silesian provincial monument conservator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Inefficient negotiations and protests of medical services have been in progress for several months, even though the government has money. There are inefficient negotiations with teachers, even though the government has money. It has led to a psychic situation in Turów, even though the government has the means to remedy it. The government is in charge of pumping their polls, dealing with raises for politicians and distribution of prizes. For those who have achieved GDP, however, there are increases in gas, electricity, fuel and food prices, increases in health insurance and tightening of the fiscal control system. I have a question: What actions is the government planning to complete the protest of health care services, to ensure that teachers are well paid and to counteract inflation and increases which (the bell) are to be in Poland? I'll ask you kindly to answer me in writing. Thank you. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Szopiński received a raise? He's hit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I would like to invite you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is, of course, scandalous that during the debate on amending the budget for almost PLN 80 billion there is no Minister of Finance. Since the Members of the PiS still do not seem to understand where the extra money is from in the budget, I will tell you. Well, my fellow countrymen, this 78 billion PLN is additional revenue in the budget for PiS. For us, this is your money that the PiS government took out of your pocket. And now, if you've already taken away nearly 80 billion zlotys from people in inflation tax, because they are the result of the cost that eats pensions and salaries, and some accounting tricks of the finance minister, then at least use them for what is most important, namely health protection, not the invented war by Błaszczak and Kaminski. Because I will repeat after Prof. Rosatim: there is no war on the eastern border (the bell); the war is in hospitals and SORs. And there the PiS government is losing this war, or actually losing patients who are dying, and it's your fault. Just like you're responsible for those who die at the border. Thank you very much. But most of all, for those who die in the E.R. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The budget was once the state's financial plan. He was, because the PiS state is no longer, because more and more tasks are being financed outside the budget, and the budget has lost its importance. The Prime Minister's absence, the Minister of Finance's absence, that's proof of that. PFR bonds, BGK you sell like hot buns and spend money as you like. The scale of waste is gigantic, shocking. An example of the State Renationalization Fund, because that would probably be the way to read this acronym PFR... From PKO SA to Pesa in Ostrołęka - as examples only. But these actions lead to a huge increase in debt and it is worth remembering that (The bell) the profitability of BGK or PFR bonds is much higher than the treasury securities. This is a debt-handling trap. We could borrow cheaper, borrow more expensive to avoid control, and we pay billions for it. The world of low interest rates ends. I ask what the consequences will be in the longer term. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u44	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. I would like to invite you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister without Minister of Finance when we talk about budget! Over 5.5 percent of the cost. The 19th day of the strike of health workers. We'll extend the state of emergency by 60 days. A thousand - not the end of the list - guys from PiS in companies of the State Treasury. $500,000. Euros a day we pay for Tauron. The fourth wave of COVID - this is state information. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] To the Turs. I would like to say that the Prime Minister, when he arrived in Podkarpath and in Mielec, stood back to an unfinished station, he stood back to the farmers. For 6 years, you have failed to fight ASF in the Mielecki district: in the last 2 weeks (The Bell) from 30 to 61 fires. There is no support for farmers. You are now offering PLN 230 million to support farmers. Where have you been for the last six years, where have you been for the last six years when you forgot the farmers? Where have you been for the last six years, when the Prime Minister boasts of the railroad that you haven't seen the station in Mielec? Farmers are waiting, and farmers will not forget it, because the army is twenty times more, and agriculture for farmers has no money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u46	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Finally, the government acknowledged that the degree of satisfaction of the rehabilitation needs of people with disabilities is very low. Well, it's a good thing he admitted it, but what's next? He decided to transfer PLN 200 million to the government's Material Reserve Agency so that this agency would purchase items, means and equipment for rehabilitation and create a system for making them available, i.e. renting or returning. Should the agency deal with such matters? She didn't meet the requirements of the pandemic when she bought the masks without the approval. Why isn't this money directed directly where it's most needed? So to local governments, let it be even to voivodships when it comes to more complex equipment. There is a need for real help, not fictitious money to the Agency (Bingle) Material Reserves. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u48	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! President Kowalczyk asked me to say that there is an excellent implementation of the budget. When you do creative accounting, you can have such a good feeling and you can brag about it, but you can't enchant reality. And the reality is what the NIK president was talking about, and what your government's deputy prime minister, Mr.Jarosław Gowin, was talking about until recently, hidden outside the budget of 300 billion debt. Hence my question. What is the real budget of the Republic of Poland and what is the real debt of the Republic of Poland? And an ancillary question. I think he's gonna help us find out the truth. This is about the information I am calling for once again, which I asked for when discussing the implementation of the budget for 2021. Namely, I uphold my request (the bell) for written information about all funds of Matthew Morawiecki, because only this information will allow us to decipher your creative accounting and get to the truth. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u50	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u51	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft amendment to the Budgetary Act increased the remuneration and derivatives appropriations in connection with the Law on the remuneration of public managers and the creation of an additional incentive fund of 6%. For the latter professional group, this is stated in the justification of the project, special allowances will be discretionary and will be granted in particular for the high level of commitment to work, efficient performance of tasks and high quality of the work carried out. So they all got theirs, and they all got theirs at their own discretion. Even if you accept this solution as a good coin, although of course it hurts that it is not a systemic solution and this wage increase is only for the selected, please note that only the employees of the state budget sphere will receive remuneration. What about the employees of the local government that you've taken huge money from? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In this amendment, you give them only 8 billion, and you take 12 billion. In the following years, you will also take 12 billion, and you will pay back 3 billion. Local workers, because of your policy, will not have the chance to receive such a raise. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? There isn't. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] I'm so sorry. You hid behind the mask so much that I didn't recognize you. You're welcome, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u53	Thank you, Marshal. Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You said you found extra money in the budget, that it was the result of an excellent economic policy. But that's not true. This is the effect of your accounting tricks. That's one thing. Secondly, only because we have such high inflation, about PLN 13 billion more has been paid to the state budget, because if citizens pay more for products and services, then also the VAT receipts at the disposal of the government are higher. The permit for CO2 emissions also 13 billion PLN. This is what power plants pay for, and ultimately consumers will pay for it in their bills. The worst part is that you don't see real challenges and needs. When in Poland we have 140 thousand. excess deaths, almost the most in Europe, you spend 10 times as much money on the army as on health care. It's sick, isn't it? [[ringtone]] [[How embarrassing are you?]] When medical practitioners protest in a white town, you spend PLN 214 million on the Prime Minister's office across the street. That's sick too. Begin to see the real needs, take care of the health care. That's the most important thing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u54	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u55	Prime Minister Morawiecki boasts of an 80-billion-dollar surplus in the budget, but forgets to add that this success consists of creative accounting, i.e. budgetary fraud, and galloping cost. About 14 billion zlotys were taken out of their wallets by Poles and Poles. Records are beating the prices of carbon dioxide allowances that the government sells. Neither does any of the rulers remind us of the record budget hole. Health is changed by all cases, applauding medical professionals who have been at war with COVID for over a year. Today you are pleased to say that 1 billion of these 80 billion will be spent on health. It's a scandal. It's a drop in the sea of needs. This 1 billion will quickly consume the fourth wave of corrhoid. This 1 billion will consume crazy inflation, the cost of security measures, oxygen, medicines, infrastructure or media. 1 billion is the annual cost of increasing the minimum wage of specialist doctors in public hospitals to 1.7 average salary. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And where's the raises for nurses, where are the raises for rescuers or non-medical workers? After all, it is a multiple of 1 billion, which is no response to the protest of medical practitioners that has been going on for many days. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! But you're ashamed of this budget. And there's nothing to be ashamed of. The most important financial bill and once again there is no Prime Minister, once again there is no Minister of Finance. [[Applause]] It is something to be ashamed of because you say: we have 78 billion, it is great, we are doing brilliantly, everything is going well, and a week ago you came here and said: there is a crisis, there is a COVID, there is a pandemic, we need to raise taxes, but we will call it Polish Load and we will tell people that we are lowering taxes. When you saw that people believed that you were lowering taxes by raising them, you even pushed through the amendment on Thursday to eliminate the relief for single mothers raising children and single fathers raising children. [[Scandal!]] The old saying says the paper will take it all. But I have this feeling that the card is eating out of pain, and the pen is ashamed of what it does. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, near Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u59	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Until recently, a few weeks ago, the PiS government brought to the Sejm a bill that raises taxes. Law and Justice officials lamented in the media that there was no money. Here today the same government comes to the Sejm with an amendment of the budget and boasts that there is a surplus of PLN 78 billion. And now, Minister, the first question is, when are you telling the truth? Is it when you say there's no money when you're whining in the media or when you're bringing that surplus, like today? Because only one of these two statements can be true. Either there's no money, or there is. When do you lie? And second question. It is worth asking how this authority received an additional PLN 78 billion in the amendment. The bad news is it's not the result of brilliant governments. But there's even worse news. This is the fact that PiS pulled this money out of the pockets of Poles and Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This money is the result of the ubiquitous cost of bread, vegetables, energy, gas, it is the result of high inflation, which is cynically conquered by the current power. And questions for the Minister. Would there even be an amendment if it weren't for this expensive and inflation? It doesn't seem like it. Minister, why are you fooling people?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unlike the parliamentarians of the Civic Platform, I am very pleased that we are very clearly increasing the funds and spending on citizens' safety. More than PLN 10 billion will go to Part 29: National Defense and Part 42: Home Affairs. Indeed, as a Civic Platform, you have repeatedly advocated a weak army, you have eliminated police stations. What we have been doing for many years is, above all, increasing citizens' sense of security. In this amendment we increase the resources for internal affairs by over PLN 3 billion, that is over PLN 2 billion for the Police Support Fund, the Border Guard Support Fund, the Fire Support Fund. It is also very important and necessary for construction investments, investment purchases. Here we plan to spend an additional 317 million PLN. But it is very exciting to increase by more than PLN 6 billion in national defence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think it's good news for the armored troops, because thanks to this money, we will be able to significantly support the acquisition of modern Abrams tanks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u62	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Nolas, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's a very good bill. In this project, there is a provision that the staff of the budgetary sphere have a special incentive allowance of 6%. , and I want to assure, on the example of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, that this incentive fund has been working for years. My question is why, Minister, this proposed change does not include employees of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, who also demonstrated their competence during the pandemic period, but also a great deal of time devoted to helping farmers, including technical assistance that they actually did after hours of work. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u64	Thank you. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, near the Confederation. I invite you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u65	Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry said that the turmoil in the economy caused a pandemic. That is obviously not true, because it was not the virus that illegally and senselessly locked all Poles in house arrest at some point. It wasn't a bandit virus that shut down restaurants, hotels and other industries, it wasn't the virus that introduced terror by imposing illegal penalties, which the court is now dying over and over again, admitting to us the truth of that time. It's not the virus that's responsible for breaking the supply chains, it's not the virus that's responsible for the crazy inflation. You're responsible for this, and that's why the prosecution is investigating you, not the virus. One more note. Speaking of which, more revenue for the budget. The government is happy that it has more revenue for the budget, and Poles who understand what is happening cry that the government has taken more from their wallets, which by inflation means even less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u67	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I think you still have time to think about what you wrote in this project. And as today, the debate about the fact that the Abrams tanks and many billions of zlotys devoted to arming are more important than regulating the situation in health care, so that today a resident and a resident of powiats, many counties in our Poland, like her long and wide, do not find, when they need help, cards that we invite you to another hospital, because there is no cast, you will really regret it. It's time to think. You're saying you're strengthening the service. Why did you forget about the volunteer firefighters? Wherever there has been a natural disaster in recent weeks (the bell), wherever there is an accident in Poland, it is the first subject... Mr... There's a volunteer fire brigade on the scene. [[What are you talking about? How many guards did they get?]] Think about this bill, or you're gonna lose on it for now. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Szarama, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There isn't. Is he coming? I'm sorry. I didn't see you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u69	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask you about some of the things that were most common here. Of course, I do not see a limit to the deception and hypocrisy of the opposition, which asks questions only and only politically lined. I would therefore like to ask how much expenditure on health care was made in 2021. Is it true that it was PLN 120 billion according to the law, and at the moment it is an increase of PLN 1 billion, because you say that PLN 1 billion for health, and PLN 1 billion for growth to the level of PLN 121 billion? Is it true that in 2015 the opposition spent only PLN 75 billion on health protection, or nearly half of it? At the time, I didn't see you pouring crocodile tears over nurses who hadn't been getting raises for many years, over teachers who didn't get raises either. Minister, is it true that the salaries of health professionals, depending on the group of workers (The Bell), have increased from 40 to 70% ? And is it true that for agriculture it will be added to this amendment PLN 700 million for ASF and over PLN 371 million for the Veterinary Inspection to combat infectious diseases? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u70	Thank you, Member. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u71	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In some statements of the opposition representatives there were evidently elements of manipulation of information concerning the finances of the Polish state, and the political game of human life is an ordinary wickedness. Putting people's deaths into the budget is really a situation that should not take place in the Polish Parliament. Minister, is the comparison of budgetary changes in the Budget Act 2021 with the draft Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act relating to 2022 - Professor, not this year - i.e. the transfer of the effects of the Law on 2022 to this Act really is not a misunderstanding? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The opposition really has to work hard to find such arguments to criticize what is good for Poles. We thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki very much that he has really carried us through this difficult period, that he has managed to obtain the resources that will be directed at the most important and most necessary things. Minister, I wanted to ask you how much money will be available for local governments, health services and other services, for workers who work hard, including the revised budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I hear these questions and these lies a lot, such as: You raise taxes in Poland, I ask where in the taxpayers' pockets there are more than 16 billion zlotys left. Is it because you raise taxes that taxpayers gain? So, really, how many of these stupid things can you listen to? NFZ - why you don't give health care. 30 billion PLN more from the COVID fund. This 1 billion PLN is really a small supplement, but we forgot about 30 billion PLN. That's another lie. Indeed, some say: it is not true that the economy is growing, that we have a system that economic growth is. They say all this is, I don't know, some miracle, happiness, that these tax receipts are that it's a coincidence. Indeed, there is one thing that is hard to enjoy - an increase in CO2 sales revenue, but this ETS is your government has negotiated in the European Union. Now we're hurting that this money is unfortunately [[ringtone]] [[It's like this.]] But I have a question, because there was also asking for a raise for the budget, and they asked why 6% This year. Minister, is there a planned increase in the budget for 2022? Because the budget, I hope, has already been properly adopted by the government, because it's the end of September. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In my question, I would like to return to the problems of agriculture and the countryside. Farmers have fulfilled all their obligations towards society during the pandemic period, the crisis. There were no interruptions in the supply processes, which is extremely important because food security has been preserved, but we know that food supply chains have been interrupted, and as a result of the increase in raw materials costs, the costs of inputs, including fertilisers, plant protection products, fuels, on such a scale that farmers have actually reduced the expenditure on purchasing inputs for production under the current autumn sowings. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are there any additional possibilities for support in the budgetary reserve or other than those referred to here? Because actually the financial situation in agriculture... Thank you, sir. ... endangers the maintenance of production.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u78	I invite Mrs Teresa Wargocka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The debate on the opposition side looks really pathetic. You are in a very difficult situation and you must say that this budget revenue is the result of some accounting tricks. The facts are completely different. You know very well that today Law and Justice, that the government is successful because we have managed to maintain the potential of the economy during COVID. And this is the fulfillment of these predictions two years ago. First of all, VAT sealing - a huge success of the government, the main reason for the impact on the state budget of larger resources. I am very pleased that this amendment raises the issue of further support for people with disabilities. I would like to ask the Minister to explain (The Bell) why the expenses of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers are increasing to such an extent and for what purpose this money will be allocated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Patrick Wicher, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? [[I'm here, I'm here.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u81	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to start with one fundamental fact. Sustainable development is the basis for the proper functioning of the State. Such sustainable development is the development of large cities, smaller towns, but also rural areas. And the government of law and justice, since it rules the country, has been able to maintain this balance. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a great deal of local investment done. There are special funds that we have just dedicated to local governments, and we support them. We compensate them for all their losses, possibly pandemic ones. Minister, there are also new regulations, more billions of zlotys. Due to the very sensitive point we are facing, i.e. the new water directive or the development of sewerage, the development of the water network system, the next billions are directed in subsidies to local governments. Minister, what amounts are now foreseen in these revised regulations, and how much have we done in this regard? Because these are important questions (the bell) and it is also important that everyone knows the answer. Sewerage and water is one of the priorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, parliamentary club Lefta. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I've been to a meeting with farmers lately. We talked a lot about bread prices. This bread, ladies and gentlemen, in my bakery, is already 5 zlotys. He's getting more expensive, he's getting more expensive every week. But this bread is only such a sure symbol of how galloping prices are in Poland. And you have instruments today to prevent this inflation, because a large part of the money that we pay for clothes, for shoes, is generated by rising fuel prices. A at the fuel price 51% these are various types of taxes, including excise duty and VAT. I understand that it is difficult for us to change VAT at the moment, but you can halve the excise duty (the bell) so that there is cheaper fuel and cheaper bread in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u85	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The government claims that there will be almost 80 billion more in the budget bill. And in the new order you take out the same amount from Polish taxpayers' pockets. Same thing. [[You're lying.]] What about a higher health premium? What about the minimum tax? You know perfectly well that this will hit Polish business, small businesses, small entrepreneurs. [[Man, what are you saying? To school!]] This will, of course, reduce the investment motivation of Polish companies. This is another hit on Polish entrepreneurs along with what you did with the tax on limited companies - double taxation of limited companies. You are destroying Polish business, Polish capital built for 30 years. [[Applause]] Why, Minister? Why are you hitting Polish companies? [[Applause]] [[He's gonna thank us for that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Farmers and agricultural chambers already in the middle of this year signalled insufficient financial resources for subsidies for compulsory crop and livestock insurance from the state budget. Does this amendment provide for additional measures for this purpose, for the payment of crop and livestock insurance? Secondly, the Act provides for additional measures - PLN 1 billion for water supply and PLN 3 billion for sewage in municipalities which meet certain statutory criteria. Yes, access to sewage, to water is a requirement of civilization in the 21st century, but we must also remember that many Polish municipalities do not have at least half of their localities. And this help is of course important. The question is: Under what conditions will the municipalities be able to use it? Will they also have to have an adequate amount of own resources (the bell) when they implement programmes involving these funds from the State budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u88	I understand that you expect an answer to this question in writing, sir? [[Maybe it'll work today.]] I don't know. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the government is carrying out two major social campaigns. The first of the billions of zlotys you have blocked by your inability in Brussels, and the second of the vaccinations. Although we are at the gray end when it comes to vaccinations in Europe, you say you are on the last line. This is all reflected in the state budget. The expenditure of the Prime Minister's office will reach almost PLN 600 million this year. In 2015, it was less than 150. [[That's manipulative.]] That's four times the amount. This is over PLN 1 million per employee of the Prime Minister's firm. This is what Matthew Morawiecki costs, who is faithful to one doctrine, the one he spoke to Zbigniew Jagiełła about: people are so stupid that it works. Amazing (The Bell), he still believes that people will buy everything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u90	Thank you very much. Miss... [[200 million for disabled persons from the provision of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. And you guys are standing up...]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I have a request for you. Why don't you meet with Mr Owl, you're sitting nearby, talk to each other. [[In the famous restaurant Owl and Friends.]] [[Morawiecki went there, too.]] Please, Mrs Agnieszka, go after her.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u91	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since the 80 billion, which the very proud government is now boasting, says that it has it in its budget, all Poles contributed - because that was what all Poles made up of, paying higher prices for everything; that's what inflation took away from them - why now, out of gratitude, you will not make such gestures towards all Poles, for example. We lower fuel prices, lower energy prices, lower water or sewage prices? Everyone's gonna pay for that, too. It'll be more expensive next year. How is it that we all make up, and in fact only a few get from this budget? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u92	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there will be no vote at noon. 12.15, because the appropriate conclusion is an excuse has not been received. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Sebastian Skuza to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u93	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In answer to questions according to their order - the first one concerned health care - I would like to point out that this year the expenditure on health care will exceed PLN 121 billion in terms of the NFZ and the state budget, while the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund is planned to amount to PLN 30 billion. Next year, the National Health Fund and the state budget are expected to spend 5,75% on health care. GDP. There's an acceleration here. That's PLN 133 billion. If the solutions of the Polish Order are voted out, this amount will increase by 7 billion more. As far as inflation issues are concerned, this is not only a Polish phenomenon. There are countries that do better with inflation, but much worse with economic growth, with budget, with debt. The country where inflation is now relatively low is, the High Sejm, Greece. Regarding the issue of Polish Governance and Taxation - here was the slogan: pulling out the pocket - every public tribute is paid by whether it's natural persons or legal persons. On the other hand, I ask you to take a look at the impact assessment of the Polish Order regulation. There, indeed, the public finance side is at a disadvantage, so these funds remain in the pockets of citizens and companies. There were also questions about the profitability of the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego bonds. I note that the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund is financed by bonds guaranteed by the State Treasury, but these are bonds of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. On the issue of profitability, I would like to point out one more thing: this higher profitability is, to a large extent, a bank tax. Let's just count off this tax, and these ineffectivenesss are gonna get really close. There were also questions about agriculture. I must say that yesterday I signed a decision to increase by PLN 0.5 billion crop insurance funds, up to PLN 900 million, before the amendment. This year, before the amendment. These are extra resources. This is what Mrs Butterwska was talking about. For agriculture there is an additional PLN 700 million in the amendment, but about PLN 1 billion as a result of the change in the allocation of reserves, including insurance funds of PLN 0.5 billion, has been transferred to agriculture. The question of increasing the expenses of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, this is where we need an explanation. At this amount, which we are talking about here, 200 million is a grant to the RARS for the disabled. It is simply the agency under the supervision of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister and therefore these measures were planned in part 16. Further growth is the transfer of European affairs and the issue of digitalisation to the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. So you can't talk about any increase and calculation of the amount per firm employee. The issue of public debt. I have said many times that the general government debt is planned to be around 57%. GDP. It's about the entire debt, not just the debt of the Treasury. As far as the issue of local government units is concerned, here we have draft budget law and around budget law, in which the revenue of local government units increases by PLN 12 billion. 8 billion is a general reserve. Local government units will decide at their discretion to use these funds. 4 billion will also be divided in a statutory, algorithmic manner. It will reach the local government units, which have the biggest deficiencies in water and sewage infrastructure. It will only have to be used for this purpose, for this infrastructure, at its own discretion. There is no need for any own contribution, the funds will be passed on by law. There was also a question about prizes in the local budgetary sphere. This 8 billion PLN could be earmarked for any purpose by local government units, but this incentive fund was rebuilt because it was the staff of the budgetary sphere in 2020 that had blocked the prize funds, and in 2021 this fund was not created. The situation has improved so much that we can rebuild this fund. As regards the issue of government agencies, because there was also a question about ARiMR, the draft around budget law also allows for an increase in the funds for remuneration. These funds were not blocked, there were no funds created for the 3 percent prize fund, there was another blockade. There's a proposal in the budget bill to get this block off. I think it is a good indicator, as regards the economic situation in our economy, that, in addition to VAT revenues, as Mr Kowalczyk pointed out, CIT revenues are also growing. I'm thinking what were the more detailed questions. What funds will be provided for key groups and how will citizens or institutions benefit from amending the budget law? As I said, 12 billion will go to local government units, and for this additional incentive fund, that is about 2 billion... 702/800 - in this order, the funds will be in this 6% incentive fund. Is there a planned increase in the wage fund in the Budget Act next year? Yeah, it's planned to be 4.4%. , and I have to say that next year will be a normal, 3-percent prize fund plus still to be used in this and next year this 6-percent fund I was talking about. I told you about insurance. Agricultural insurance funds are allocated, this year an increase from the planned 400 million to 900 million, even before the amendment. And in conclusion, I would just like to add that solutions in the Polish Łada reduce the burden, which can be seen by reading the impact assessment of the regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u94	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft laws: amending the budget law for 2021, contained in print 1585 and 1585-A respectively, amending the Law on special arrangements for the implementation of the budget law for 2021, contained in print No 1586, to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity about the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament (prints No 1587 and 1593). I ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the draft resolution in the law amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, print No 1587. Marshal of the Sejm, on the basis of art. 37 and subsequent Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 24 September this year. the above draft resolution to the Rules of Procedure Committee for first reading. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee, following its first reading and examination of the draft at its meeting on 28 September 2021, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft resolution. Rules of Procedure shall be adopted in accordance with Article. 43 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall, at the request of the applicant, present three minority requests made by Mr Wojciech Maximowicz concerning the following points: in Article. 1, that is the amendment of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 2, making a new sound. Another amendment: in the article. 1 in point 1, delete Article. 117c and Art. 1 in point 1 in Article. 117d paragraph. 3 - also make a new wording on the issues of the majority when adopting an emergency. I will briefly inform the High House that there was a debate in the committee, in particular, on the matter of the ordinary majority, which the Rules of Procedure introduce as regards the extension of the state of emergency. Here I would like to present some information to the High Sejm that was on the committee. It began with a dispute about the interpretation of the Article. 230 and 231 Constitutions which require voting on the President's regulation on the introduction of an emergency state, namely that the Sejm may repeal this regulation by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. In contrast, in the article. 230 The Constitution provides that an extension of the state of emergency may take place only once with the approval of the Sejm and for a period of not more than 60 days. Therefore, the Constitution does not specify the majority to be voted on on the issue of extending the state of emergency. And since that's not there, we're referring to the article. 120 Constitution, which provides that the Sejm shall adopt laws by simple majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members, unless the Constitution provides for a different majority or resolution or the Sejm Act provides otherwise. So in this case, the amendment is designed to regulate the introduction of emergency conditions at all and how the vote on the extension of the emergency status is to be held. And there is a proposal made by Members and adopted by the committee that this extension is to be voted by a simple majority, which is in line with the principles set out in the Constitution. In this respect, there was a dispute in the committee and the committee decided that we were on this project, which was proposed by a group of Members. In fact, the issue was still concerned with repealing or extending the emergency situation during the debate. There is a proposal to exclude the possibility of submitting or to exclude the possibility of submitting formal applications. There was also a discussion and a dispute in the committee in this regard. However, the Commission has decided to adopt this solution, which is proposed by the applicants, in order to exclude the possibility of submitting formal applications in this respect. One of the arguments which I also put forward in this regard and which was raised by the applicants is that an extension of the state of emergency or emergency may take place, for example. on the last day of this state, and then the submission of formal applications could lead to the Sejm not being able to give its consent to the extension and that would have ended. Then it is no longer possible to extend the condition that is completed. The renewal procedure should therefore be re-launched. The Commission accepted such an argument and accepted this solution, which the Commission is asking the High Sejm to accept. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u96	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, prints no 1587 and 1593. The essence of this amendment is the addition of Chapter 7a: Procedure in emergency cases. As the rapporteur, the chairman of the committee, Kazimierz Smolinski, with legal precision, outlined the most important assumptions of this amendment, let me put forward a broader context that accompanies this change, because of course it concerns all cases that may be taking place in the future. However, it is, of course, difficult to hide that this is primarily about the situation that we have today. This also dominated the committee meeting yesterday. The most important thing that I think should be clear and clear to all Members and understood is that this concerns our security. We have an emergency situation at the Polish-Belarusian border and all reasonable Poles know that this is not a humanitarian crisis, but it is a hybrid operation, probably invented in Moscow, carried out by the Lukashenka regime. We should really thank all the services that make sure that there is no illegal crossing of the Polish border. And this pressure on the Polish border, from week to week, continues to grow overnight. Security issues should be excluded from the current political dispute. During the Second Republic of Poland there were also severe conflicts between political parties, but there was consensus. on the fact that, in matters of state security, everyone speaks with one voice. Of course, few Communist MEPs, the Communist Workers' Party of Poland, later the Communist Party of Poland broke out of this consensus, but it was an absolute margin. Today, unfortunately, we had the dubious pleasure of observing how some opposition politicians embarrassed our services in carrying out their duties. Unfortunately, also part of the media was involved in this scenario, which was written in Moscow and was implemented by Lukashenka. It was really embarrassing and most Poles judged these performances as unworthy of Members. The state of emergency, which was introduced in the Belt near the border with Belarus, led to our officers finally being able to perform their duties in a way effective and without exposing themselves to such additional situations, because some of these politicians, these journalists, as I said, were involved in this scenario written outside our country and supported this hybrid operation. It's hard to say for what reasons. I'm sure they acted as useful idiots. This must be stopped and, therefore, it is necessary to extend the state of emergency, and for this to happen, it is necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. It is worth saying that the Lukashenka regime, including Moscow, is testing our responses to these events, government reactions, service reactions, public reactions, opposition reactions as well. The government and society (The Bell) passed the exam, while the opposition failed the exam. Therefore, I ask the opposition to support this draft amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, unless it wants to perform a function similar to that of the Communist Party of Poland in the Second Republic. I hope, however, that this will be a reflection that will bring sobriety, and that we will not repeat these embarrassing stories that we have seen until recently. I ask the High House to support the proposed changes, and I am making one amendment to Mr Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u98	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Głogowski will now present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u99	Dear Marshal, High Seym! The contested amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm bears witness to one thing: The Law and Justice are aware that they do not have a majority of 231 Members in the Sejm. Thus adopted in a hurry, probably in order to vote in accordance with these rules on Friday, regulations according to which a simple majority will suffice to agree to the extension of the state of emergency, and not absolute as in the case of such a state, although the effect will be the same: in a specific area of the Polish Republic there will be a state of emergency. The loss of absolute majority by law and justice is not accidental. The PiS was committed to working for it. Threatening to break the rule of law standards, to fund a society of rampant increases or to maximize nepotism and to extort money from state assets in an impudent way must have had such an effect. Thus, the number of parliamentarians of the PiS was decreasing, and support for the governing parties was also decreasing. When it looked like the disaster was near, the refugees suddenly appeared. Last chance to rebuild the support of the PiS, show, with what dedication of Polish weapons. It can be said that the refugees fell from the sky to the PiS or, to be strict, they sent them to the Polish border of Lukashenka with Putin. It is clear that people from Iraq or Syria were cynically drawn to Belarus and then sent to the border of the European Union, first for many weeks to Lithuania, later to Poland. Everyone could predict what the effect of the arrival of refugees on the Polish border would be. The potential external threat always consolidates society around the rulers. Everyone can see, PiS politicians also, how great, maybe the last chance to rebuild their support is refugees trying to cross the eastern border of Poland. Did Lukashenka, when deciding to send refugees to the Polish border, probably in consultation with Moscow, in which I agree with the previous speaker, not know that in this way he would support the governing party, a party consistently implementing anti-European policy, so welcome in the East? Anyone can answer that. This draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure applies, of course, to any possible introduction of an emergency in Poland, but the regulation is introduced in a specific situation. It is intended to allow easier extension of the current state of emergency for another 60 days. The narrative of the fact that a state of emergency is necessary to protect the border is absurd. What does the Border Guard and the military have to do with the lack of a state of emergency? If the Minister responsible for border protection says he can't do without a state of emergency, it's a dramatic admission of failure. The state of emergency is primarily preventing journalists from accessing the crisis area and journalists informing the public in an independent manner are essential guarantees of democratic standards. Even in war areas there are currently accredited journalists. They are accepted there by the fighting parties. Meanwhile, they cannot be on the Polish-Belarusian border. Why? Are they supposed to show that the border is not tight, that border on which, according to the European institutions, the number of illegal migrants has steadily increased over recent years and, as reports show, even after the introduction of the emergency state, nothing changes in this area? An article from Virtual Poland from the end of September, after the introduction of a state of emergency, describes the situation from the municipality of Narewka, where residents see groups of refugees leaving the forest, entering the shop, shopping, ordering a taxi and taking a taxi to Poland. Is it supposed to be a state of emergency so that journalists can't observe it or that they can't verify very disturbing information about the tragic events that happen in the border strip, perhaps not to verify the number of cases of preventing border crossings, to verify whether the same people are counted many times, whether the people who are exported to the forest and then come out of the forest, because they are not going to build a village or a village there, are not stopped again and once again included in the statistics? Such questions will probably be asked by Members the day after tomorrow when discussing the President's request for an extension of the state of emergency. Of course, if there is no provision in the Rules of Procedure for voting in connection with the introduction of emergency conditions, they should be introduced, but not such as to extend the state of emergency by a simple majority. Minor governments can, of course, function. In many countries, e.g. Scandinavian, they operate as a whole term, but extraordinary states, as the name suggests, are not trivialities, which can be extended by a simple majority of the Sejm. This is not the only option given by the draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure. The proposal also prohibits the submission of formal proposals during the debate on the Emergency Regulation. It's a psychic that shows intent to push through the president's motion as soon as possible, which will probably enter the Sejm tomorrow. The Civic Coalition will vote in favour of minority proposals submitted in the course of its work in the Rules of Procedure and Members' cases, according to which an absolute majority will be required in order to accept the President's request for an extension of the emergency, and also in favour of a proposal which removes the prohibition to submit formal applications during the procedure for such requests. If these proposals are not accepted, which is, as is apparent from arithmetic, very likely, we will be against the amendment (the bell) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u100	Thank you very much to Mr Tomasz Głogowski. Now I ask Katarzyna Kotula to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u101	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left with regard to the resolution proposing amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The proposal involves voting on the extension of the emergency situation by a simple majority voting by an absolute majority in the event of the repeal of the Regulation on the introduction of an emergency, while in the debate on the extension of the emergency situation the proposal completely eliminates the possibility of submitting requests for interruption, deferral or closure of the sitting. To date, an absolute majority was needed to vote on any emergency regulation. Consequently, the state of emergency should be extended on the same basis as it was introduced, i.e. by an absolute majority. The truth is, the government doesn't have a majority to prolong the state of emergency. Therefore, he wants to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm in such a way as to facilitate and guarantee himself, with a rather fragile majority, a vote over it, looking at it rather short-sightedly, as this rule will later apply to all emergency situations. We are debating the extension of the state of emergency and the inclusion of these procedures in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, although today, one month after the introduction of the state of emergency, your arguments are no longer valid. On September 6, you said that one of the arguments for introducing a state of emergency was the Russian-Belarusian military exercises of Zapad. Let me remind you that the maneuvers are over. You weren't able to convince us or anyone else in opposition to the fact that a state of emergency was needed. And when we asked if it was according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The 1st Constitution was exhausted by ordinary constitutional measures before the decision You want to limit the debate on extending the state of emergency, and that is without discussion. You want to push him through despite the opposition of most of the opposition. This is the only real explanation for the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which we are currently investigating. Following this lead, we can propose to include in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm a ban on speaking to Members in the Seym or gagging the mouths of Members of the opposition. We can also, of course, put in such a voting procedure that Law and Justice always wins the vote. I'm sure you'll figure it out sooner or later. If all decisions in the area of emergency conditions have so far been taken by an absolute majority of votes, we are of the opinion that this procedure should be maintained, all the more so because - as the name suggests - this is an emergency state, an emergency state, and as a result of its conduct there is a limitation of certain civil rights and freedoms, e.g. those relating to the principle of economic freedom. Back to the motivations and arguments behind the introduction, and consistently - I understand - for extending the state of emergency and including it in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I will quote the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 of the Constitution: The actions taken as a result of the introduction of the emergency state must correspond to the degree of threat and should aim to restore the normal functioning of the State as soon as possible. So I am asking here today, from the Parliamentary Speaker: What measures have you taken to restore the normal functioning of the state as soon as possible? What's your plan? What happens when the magical 60 days pass? Lukashenka will disappear, borders will be sealed, will you build a Chinese wall? What have you done? We'd like to hear the arguments. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Minister of Home Affairs Mariusz Kaminski convinced us on 6 September that the arguments were two, and one of them is the Lukashenka regime - as for this, we all agree - the other are military maneuvers that have already ended. Today we hear that the head of MON Mariusz Błaszczak says that the migratory pressure on the border has not stopped, and Minister Kaminski says that there is a series of insolent and aggressive provocations on the part of Belarus at the border. I quote: For me, the most drastic example is that a man in a uniform of Belarusian service with long weapons measures in our officer, deflects the weapon and then pulls the trigger. Luckily, there's no bullet. These are serious charges. We already know that there have been secret committee meetings, but in that case, if that's true, we would like to see the secret Sejm sitting, we would like to know the evidence and check its truthfulness. Because looking at the media releases of the last few days, what you presented at the conference three days ago is just manipulations that you just found on the Internet. By introducing a state of emergency, you really wanted to get rid of the border areas of journalists and organizations that have been helping refugees, immigrants for years. You just wanted no one to look at your hands so that the camera lights would go out, so that the only message coming from the border area would be your message. You are masters of manipulation and management of fear. You cynically use the dramatic situation of people at the border to play politics and bounce back in the polls. You're trying to create fear, fear, and a sense of danger in your citizens. I feel like you don't read the constitution with understanding. Limitation of individual freedoms and rights during emergency situations - Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1: A law determining the scope of restrictions on human and civil liberties and rights during martial law and exceptional law (the Bell) must not restrict the freedoms and rights referred to in Article. 30, i.e. the principles of protection of human dignity, the principles of protection of life, the principles of prohibition of torture, the principles of personal immunity and the principles of the welfare of the child. Mr Dolat from Law and Justice, who appeared before me, inspired me to show pictures that I wasn't going to show. Mr President, you said that Members of the opposition did not pass the test. I would like to ask what exam the Members of the Law and Justice passed, how the government passed the exam, how Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki passed, when these people die at the border. Thank you very much. The Left parliamentary club will not support the amendments proposed in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u102	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jan Łopata will now present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u103	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives to present our position on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. High Seym! The very intention of amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm in this respect, as is apparent from the justification and discussion that we held at the meeting of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs, is dictated by the need to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm with the provisions governing the proceedings before the Sejm in matters relating to emergency situations. In fact, according to the wording of the article. 237 of the Constitution of the Sejm examines the regulations of the President of the Republic of Poland on the introduction of the state of emergency and war and the Sejm may repeal such regulation by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. In accordance with the provisions in the article. Point (b) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council The lack of these provisions in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm may create problems in the application of the Constitution, as we all know. Well, High Sejm, you could agree with this suggestion or with this proposal if not for the experience of a few weeks ago. After all, the Sejm effectively conducted the procedure of discussion and voting on the regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland about the introduction of a state of emergency, first of all. Secondly, the discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity - this meeting took place yesterday - clearly indicated that the proposed provisions of the amendments or additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are clearly moving towards building a stronger and more complete position for today's governing coalition, rather than establishing provisions, timeless regulations, as one might think. Unfortunately, that's what it looks like, which is why we, with this concept of law-building, changing the law, breaking the law, disagree. Therefore, in the near future, we will bring to the Marshal's staff a comprehensive draft of amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, which will go, if possible, in a completely different direction. Since the draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm restores the freedom of parliament and then proposes reforms aimed at ensuring a high standard of legislation, the implementation of parliamentary control and the participation of the Sejm in the policy on Polish membership in the European Union. The aim is to repeal the rules enabling discriminatory practices, to restore parliamentary and constitutional powers of the Sejm in the field of control, to restore the condition of a fair and transparent legislative process, to open the Sejm to social dialogue, to apply the principle of subsidiarity in practice and to respect the rights of self-government in the legislative process, to increase the participation of the Sejm in European policy and to treat as a policy requiring special cooperation between constitutional authorities. With regard to the regulations themselves, we have in these provisions a resolution repeal of the rules facilitating the application of sanctions to Members and the restriction of freedom of expression, the re-introduction of provisions guaranteeing the pluralist composition of the Commission for Special Services and its rotating leadership, the right of representatives of clubs to ask questions before voting, and not as at the moment, when there is no such possibility, the right of club presidents, all clubs to make additional speeches at each point, the transition to the remote sitting of the Sejm. After all, an important limitation of freedom in Parliament will be possible on the basis of a resolution of the House, expressed by a majority of 2/3 of votes, and when the Sejm cannot meet, the Bureau, but also by a majority of 2/3 of votes, will decide. These are the ideas for a fair and transparent legislative process in the Seym. We also want to exclude the arbitrary use of express legislation. Correction of Article 51 The introduction of this path on the basis of records is, in our view, undemocratic. Those are our ideas for changing the rules. However, with this amendment of the Rules of Procedure, we will support the amendments or (The Bell) minority proposals. However, if these minority proposals do not pass, we will not be in favour of changing the rules of procedure of the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u104	Thank you very much for your position. He is aware that he is permanently failing to comply with the order of the Marshal of the Sejm on special order arrangements for the sitting of the Sejm and he is in violation of order because he is in a Parliament hall without a mask, without having a certificate to allow him to stay without a mask. Your clubmate has this certificate, and he's not wearing a mask. [[Voice from the room: May I, Mr. Marshal?]] What can I do? [[Voice from the Chamber: Speak.]] [[Voice from the room: You can wear a mask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for your comments to me. I assure you, Mr. Marshal, I am acting in accordance with the law in force in the Republic of Poland. Ad rem. [[Gregory, where is God's happiness?]] I have here amendments to this draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure, which I place on the hands of the Marshal in the hope that perhaps there will be an autoreflexion and a violent parliamentary majority will give up gmeraning in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Do not create specializations where reasonable results can be found in an ordinary path. This ordinary path is a sensible argument, not nonsense happenings, like the one performed by the Minister of Security and his sidekicks in recent days. These are events that must undermine faith, trust that the government knows what it's doing, setting up a state of emergency on the east wall. At this moment God's greetings to all Border Guard officers, police officers, soldiers of the Polish Army who do their job there. We are thinking this state of emergency, limited, supported without any reservations, declaring a complete, of course, lack of trust in the reorganized criminal group of Mateusz Morawiecki, but at the same time declaring confidence in professionals in the army, police and security. We are not afraid to see the uniform of a Polish soldier, we are happy to see the Polish Army in public space. Therefore, near the Confederacy there will not be any special theories for this situation. Sure thing, we're building this extension of the state of emergency. You have our votes on this. But don't play by the rules, don't do it. Because if (the bell) in such serious matters you conjure up the right to your needs, if you are afraid that in a case so serious and so evident, so clear to the security of the state you may not have enough votes, then what will be in other matters? Mr... Don't let him tempt you. Mr Wojciech Maximowicz. If anything, make amends. Let's make up for the seym freezer while we're at it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u106	Mr Wojciech Maximowicz will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our still democratic parliament operates thanks to the protest of Poles against the murder of communist authorities of the Polish People's Republic. The most painful experience was the introduction of martial law. Rulers should keep this in mind whenever they think of reaching for a legal instrument, such as any emergency state. [[Applause]] Our democracy must be based on the disapproval of taking the risk of human rights violations, the right to life, the right to health, the right to respect for every human being. The state of emergency introduced on 2 September clearly limits these rights significantly. The greater need to defend borders is to be a completely unique justification. However, Members must be convinced that all other possibilities of action by state services have been exhausted. We know that it was not exhausted that the voivodeship's order could have put in place similar mechanisms without reaching for the institution of the state of emergency. A risky solution has been used, whose main asset for the rulers is the influence of fear on human emotions and PR use of this mechanism. We must be sure that, despite restrictions, respect for human rights has been fully ensured. We're not sure. We must be sure that even in the war, representatives of the Red Cross and Doctors without Borders are allowed into the closed zone. We know they weren't allowed in. We must be sure that properly trained journalists from all accredited magazines, radio stations and television stations provide reliable information to the public from the closed zone. We know that time for their training and accreditation was enough, but no one was trained and no one was allowed in. We need to know what's going on out there and what's the real reason for the next month's extension of the state of emergency. In order to make this possible, it is necessary to provide comprehensive information as a justification for the introduction or extension of an emergency in this case. The discussion and the possibility to request adjournment and closure of the sitting should not be restricted. It is necessary to give high priority to the decision of Members to extend the state of emergency by obtaining an absolute majority with at least half of the statutory number of Members. That is why Poland 2050, as the only representative of Members, submitted amendments to the resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm yesterday at the sitting of the Rules of Procedure Committee by my own person. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u108	Thank you very much, sir. I am now asking Mr Michał to drink to present the position of the parliamentary circle of the Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The party of power is brutally and determinedly trying to change the rules of the game so as to achieve its political goal, because it is not true that we have not been able to repeat effectively the procedure that we have effectively done together before. Only in order to make a responsible decision, responsible people need reliable information, honest information, the feeling that the only player in this difficult situation at the border, who uses cynically human misfortune, is Alexander Lukashenka. We don't know that for sure today. Journalists who should be accredited, carry out their mission and provide reliable information are not allowed, and instead, instead of a fair, honest discussion, you prefer to change the rules of the game. Changing the game rules during the game spoils the game. This is taking out another state fuse that might come back to us in a while. either as a caricature or in a very dangerous way. This is a dangerous game that prostates and patriots who believed that once in the United Right Camp... All those who have this kind of reflection will never be able to pull out these other fuses of yours. Instead of having a fair discussion, we have a party dictatorship that aims to achieve a political goal. Therefore, my political environment cannot agree to support this presentation in this situation. Therefore, we will not support this presentation as it stands and appeal to all prostates and patriots of the Law and Justice so that they do not take shortcuts so that they do not take out the fuses and spoil the state. We can do this in a responsible way, and Poles hope that we will make difficult decisions in a responsible and reliable way. This decision is very difficult. I hope we can do this together without changing the rules of the game. Let's be responsible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u110	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Szramka will now present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but I'm going to address mostly this part of the room because you're the champions in breaking the law and ridiculing parliamentary work. What you're trying to do is you're the only ones who could come up with this idea. At all, I'm surprised you didn't go much further, and you didn't put in a record that the party president would decide whether or not we were prolonging the emergency. After all, you could do it, you have the majority, you can vote it out. Ladies and gentlemen! This project doesn't deserve any attention. It's a waste of your time and my time, which is why I'm gonna end my speech: let's drop this bullshit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u112	Thank you very much. That's where we ended the club performances and the wheels. Let's get to the questions. Mr Wojciech Maximowicz was the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am sorry that I am speaking, perhaps not in addition to that statement, but rather in relation to the situation in the Chamber. I'd like to make a statement. I think right in front of us... We're dealing with a violation of the Marshal's decision. Mr Braun is passing by without a mask. Of course, he has the right to ignorance because he is not a professional in medical matters, about which he often speaks. On the other hand, if he has knowledge, he should know that wearing a mask in a growing pandemic situation does not so much protect Mr Braun himself, so his demonstration act does not speak of his courage, how much - if he had a mask - protects me in more than 98%, e.g. passing next to Mr Braun, who may at any given moment be infected by COVID. So if he knows that, that's it. It's just low. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u114	Thank you very much, sir. I fully agree with Mr Braun's statement and again address Mr Braun. Since you're failing to comply with the order of the Marshal of the Sejm on special order arrangements for the meeting of the Sejm, you're violating the order of this kind of demonstration... [[My name was mentioned.]] ...on the basis of Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order and ask you to obey the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[I'm warning you, Marshal.]] Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm refer you to order and I find that you are preventing the proceedings from being held. Please comply with the rules of procedure... [[My name has been mentioned, please apply...]] Please comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If you do not wish to comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, then I ask you to leave the pulpit and leave the Chamber because both myself and the Members... [[I have every right to do that, Mr. Marshal.]] ...who follow these rules, we have exactly the same opinion. You demonstrate your position in this way, which is contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[Give me the floor.]] I'm gonna apply the final formula in a minute, which means I'm gonna call on you to say that you're preventing the proceedings from being held and on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 5... [[My name was mentioned.]] ...I'm making a decision to exclude you from the Sejm. [[My name was mentioned.]] In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, leave the sitting room. [[Applause]] [[My name has been mentioned, Mr. Marshal, let me...]] Now please take the floor of Mr Michael Szczerba. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I would like to ask Katarzyna Kretkowska. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are to be amended in order to extend the state of emergency smoothly so that the PiS government can continue to carry out acts that violate international law and the Polish Constitution, so as to continue to bully people who stand on the Polish border and seek rescue in Poland, so as to continue to apply violence to them with impunity, to continue to inflict suffering, pain, death from cold, hunger, exhaustion, to continue to campaign with impunity against these misdemeanor misfortunes, because they are weak, poor, others to continue to scare them, to publish their fakes about their alleged paedophilia, or Zoofil, to continue dehumanizing them, to represent them as subhumans, and thus to prevent potential social compassion or greater humanitarian movements. The point is not to allow free media to expose the truth about this mystification, about this pseudo-bombastic threat (The Bell) of the proclaimed necessity to defend Polish borders, to continue to unpunishedly rub it, to stifle and fool the Polish public opinion, to lie about the actual state at the border, to deceive the public opinion. And all this is to pump falling PiS polls and distract the public from the real problem of drastic price increases, inflation, the collapse of health services. This state, extension or amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, as well as the state of emergency itself, have no basis in fact. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u116	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen... High Izbo! I repeat, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 5 I have decided to exclude Mr Braun from the sitting of the Sejm and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I ask you to leave the sitting room. [[Applause]] Now, please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A state of emergency, every emergency state deserves a very deep debate. It is a debate in a parliament that will show citizens what is the basis for such a decision rather than another one. Instead, we have on your part an attempt to close our mouths in parliament, an attempt to sweep this discussion under the carpet, or we have what ministers Błaszczak and Kaminski did two days ago, or rather a political theatre, a propaganda theater, which is intended to distract attention from the core of the problem. I have a question for the Member, the representative of the applicants. This discussion, if one thinks about the interests of the state, if one thinks about categories of state goods and citizens' interests, should be very broad and show citizens what it really looks like and what is the basis for referring (the bell) to such a parliament rather than another proposal. Why are you taking Parliament's space for discussion? Why do you want to make it impossible to show the real reasons for such a solution rather than other regulations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u118	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Franciszek Sterczewski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u119	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We all know why you need this state of emergency. You want to stop activists and activists from helping people with refugee experience. You censor the media so they can't report this nightmare. So far, five people have died there, a 16-year-old boy at the beginning of this week. Border Guard's bragging about push-backs every day. Yesterday, guards took 473 people out of Poland. How many people in this group didn't survive another night? That's why you're in this state so we don't find out. With this maneuver, you want to hide the faces of the people locked up by you in Usnarz Górny, so you can make their mouths full of degenerates and justify your cruelty. Minister Kaminski, Joseph Goebbels would be proud of you. Now you want to prolong this state of emergency, and you can't even do it legally. This is a state of despicableness (the bell) and a disgrace to this country. Last sentence. Instead of prolonging this vileness and this sadism, this must be stopped immediately. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u120	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mrs Claudia Jachira to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u121	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're changing the rules of the Sejm because you're afraid otherwise you won't be able to prolong the state of emergency. But what is the balance of these 30 days of suspension of democratic freedoms at the border? We know about six dead victims. And how many we don't know if we don't have any information? Journalists aren't allowed in, and you're publishing some people with horses. Why do you need this state of emergency? Are you going to continue to rape the international agreements that Poland has signed? You're not gonna let lawyers in, not give humanitarian aid despite the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights? Poles, who so many times in their history fled as refugees and benefited from the help of other countries, now that they have a chance to repay their debt, turn their backs to other people's suffering and cry for help so that there are no traces. You will be the ones who will be the ones who will be the ones making the films and your inhuman methods used in the woods and in the swamps at the border. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't fool yourselves, the world will know everything you're trying to hide. Actions and conversations will be filmed. And all you had to do was behave. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u122	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Magdalena Filiks to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have such a reflection: at the same time that on our eastern border activists are actually carrying out the Polish state's compliance with international treaties, simply saving people's lives in Poland, just as Ela Podlesna did yesterday, we here in the Sejm are simply making shameful attempts to rape and rape the Polish constitution. Art. 23 and Article 23 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are important, but it must not conflict with the Constitution or beyond the Constitution. It's like you've come up with the idea that if you change the manual of the car, you'll change all the general traffic regulations in Poland. It's pretty much the same thing. I don't really have any questions. In your language, I would ask you whether God has forsaken you. In my language, the question is, have you lost your minds? And the most important question is this: Has anyone made you aware of the particular paragraphs that threaten you for what is here today, in the Seym (the bell), and what are the sentences that threaten you for this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piątkowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u125	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of this discussion, a representative of the Law and Justice Club referred to the solidarity of Members in the most important matters concerning Poland. He said that when we talk about security, we should be unanimous, and if we're not, just like pre-war communists, we're against the state. Well, what I'm trying to say is, no. Today, what you are doing is another proof of this, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice, that you want to destroy democracy in Poland. We are dealing with a fragment of the crawling attempt on democracy in Poland. I don't know what else you have in your heads, what's your next plan, what else you want to take from the Poles. Will it be now, in a moment, just a vote on security matters in Nowogrodzka, not in the Polish Sejm? Maybe you've got even sicker ideas. One day, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice Members, you will be brought to justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u126	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Mr Artur Łącki. [[Voice from the room: He'll be right there.]] Well, then it is Mr Arthur Dziambor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Confederation has tabled a number of amendments to the bill that we are investigating. The first relates to the fact that an absolute majority of votes must be obtained when introducing a state of emergency. This is a fairly obvious amendment. I think the Law and Justice should support it, too, especially since you're supposed to have an absolute majority in the courtroom. The second amendment concerns the deletion of the point that no formal proposal can be introduced. I think that with the absolute majority also the formal proposal of the opposition should not bother you in any way, so you should support this. And the third, most important, amendment proposed during the revision of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure concerns something such as a seym freezer that exists. This freezer allows you not to introduce certain things, the uncomfortable ones, to the deliberations. That is why we have a proposal to allow every bill - this is your 2015 project, and after 6 months of submission in committee a second reading - this is the Civic Platform project (The Bell). We are counting on the amendment on the closure of the Seym freezer by all Members in the Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u128	Thank you very much. I see that Mr Łącki has arrived. [[Excuse me, committee.]] So please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, for a few... No, three terrible things happened in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship in recent times. In one week, three young people were killed during police intervention. You could say that they were killed by the police, because at least in one case, those cops who intervened turned off the surveillance cameras. If they've turned off the spare cameras, it's a scandal that affects those cops who did it and their commanders. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs was attended by the parents of these young people who were killed, MEPs and MEPs, there were not only ministers and vice-ministers, nor the commander of the Voivodeship of Lower Silesia, nor the commander of the National Police. It's just a scandal. [[Scandal!]] You want to change the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, so I'm inclined to change the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I'm inclined to make sure there's no such thing as yesterday. So there's no scandal like yesterday. And I'm asking your marshal and all marshals to change these rules in such a way that they can be allowed to proceed in such committees remotely as they used to be. Not in such committees as we will proceed with new laws or amendments to laws, but in such committees, so that the Minister, the Deputy Minister and the Chief Police Commissioner do not say that they had more important matters and could not show up. It's remote, and I'm asking... [[But what more important things could they have?]] ...so we can start working on it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u130	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Changes in the rules must not be caused by incidents, and especially should not be caused by the problems of the governing coalition in collecting the right majority. The amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which aims to ensure that the extension of the state of emergency is possible by a simple majority, is clearly contrary to the provisions of the Constitution which require the establishment of such a state of absolute majority. And since we require an absolute majority to establish it, all the more so to extend it, it would seem that this absolute majority is necessary. I agree with you, Mr Law and Justice, that issues relating to emergency situations require consensus, only that the State rather than trying to convince the opposition to its point of view, trying to reach a common position, you prefer a forceful solution. Perhaps even this ordinary majority will not be possible (the bell), so I suggest: maybe when it is 10% O.R., we're prolonging this. You are making this debate and this House absurd. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u132	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You want to extend the state of emergency by 60 days. And what happens next? What happens after these 60 days when it turns out that the escalation of the migration process will increase? What do you want to change? Constitution? What rules do you want to change? What do you want to do so that society doesn't really know what's happening on our border? Since 2015, you have ruled and during this time you have done nothing really to secure the Polish borders, and the Polish borders, the borders of the European Union, should be fully secured. Don't tell me the fence where the stakes are stuck in the ground is that protection. The security should be strategically designed and strategically discussed also in the Sejm, presented to the public. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Meanwhile, one thing you want is silence - silence over the problem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u134	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the question of Mr Jarosław Urbaniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u135	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Instead of changing the Sejm's rules, the PiS is happy to discuss the crisis at the eastern border. That's not what this is about. If you really want to talk about a state of emergency on the Eastern border, I'll be brief. Until the state of emergency was there, no one was killed. When you put in a state of emergency, people die at the border. But back to the basics. By arguing and hiding in a disgraceful way, as we saw three days ago at a press conference, the situation at the eastern border, you are breaking the law. The border crisis will pass, and the law will be broken. It cannot be that an emergency, or exceptional, is introduced by an ordinary majority. The Constitution clearly states that such an extraordinary thing must be introduced (the bell) by an absolute majority of votes. Art. 230 shall be read in conjunction with Article. 231, and what you're doing is stretching the law. You're breaking the law, hiding yourself from a crisis that will pass. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u136	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask the floor of Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Category: you're breaking the law, sir, it's a little mystical. This is a power that has completely removed itself from democratic control. After all, an ordinary democratic majority is enough to turn democracy into a dictatorship. And that's the process we're dealing with today. The sovereign is the one who decides the state of emergency - that is the first sentence of the political theology of Carl Schmitt, led by Jarosław Kaczyński and Law and Justice. This dehumanization of suffering, which we are dealing with at the Polish-Belarusian border, is alarming. This religious state, this Catholic state is so consistently destroying, allows people to die at the Polish-Belarusian border. I'm pointing it out again. And I'm gonna say one more drastic sentence. It is not enough to wear a uniform of Border Guard, policeman or Polish Army - you need to know what case you are serving. The uniform does not slow down (the bell) from thinking, responsibility and humanity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u138	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Marek Dyduch.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Under the rule of the PiS, the state of emergency becomes ordinary. This is an amazing event, because this is an unusual situation in the country. Several dozen refugees appear at the border, blowing it all up to the size of a big case, a big threat. But we don't use an institution like the National Security Council, we don't tell the opposition what a threat it is. We are not talking with the European Union about how to share the experiences of the different countries of the Union, how to deal with it, but we are saying: this is our case, this is a great danger. You're doing this to make the nation believe it is. You're introducing a state of emergency at the border for now, but let's assume that's 10,000. more people every month. What other condition will you put in this situation? Special? A state of emergency all over the country? Law of war? Think about what you're doing, 'cause one day it's gonna be like this. [[PZPR.]] And get the hell out of the P.A.P.R. Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Ooh... that much?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u140	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Rafał Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with the change of regulations resulting from the parliamentary project, which was sent to the Sejm five days ago. After today's speeches, we all have one impression: there is no majority in this ruling room. Important decisions should be taken by a absolute majority. We all know that. We all know that. So the basic question arises: What other ideas will the rulers come up with or representatives of individual groups in order to limit speeches and the right to vote by Members of the Republic of Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u142	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Maciej Gdula.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I address the right side of the room, Members and Members of Law and Justice. [[There's no one to see because they didn't come.]] There's a couple of people in the O.R. You think you're tough and smart, that you're gonna push refugees abroad and it's gonna cut through the influx of new migrants, and by the way, you're gonna get it in the polls because this whole situation is political. You know who thinks the same thing? That's what Lukashenka thinks. Lukashenka's thinking shows a family resemblance to your thinking. He will gain from his, among the Belarusians, when he shows Poland as a country closed to visitors, Europe as an area where there is much talk about democratic standards, but they are not observed when a difficult situation comes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So stop pursuing this policy. Understand that you are helping Lukashenka, and start thinking about how to really solve the crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u144	Thank you very much. [[The voice from the room: did you mean it?]] [[For real. And to you.]] I would now like to ask Mrs Magdalena Beyat.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u145	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! You didn't convince us to extend the state of emergency. You can't justify it, because there's just no justification. The Polish state is able to cope with the situation on the eastern border without restricting civil rights and freedom of the media, without endangering health and life in a large part of innocent people who are at that border. Today, the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm - it is important that it is not necessary to obtain an absolute majority in order to prolong the state of emergency and to ban formal applications - would be absurd and ridiculous if they were not scandalous. Because I can't help but think that this change protects you from the surprises you weren't ready for during the vote in August, that you're treating some of your fears and traumas from the last resummation. And the fact that you're using the right to this, in a short-sighted way and according to the philosophy that after us even the flood is scandalous. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question for you applicants: What will your next projects be? Will the next idea, as you lose the majority, be to accept all government projects by acclamation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u146	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mr Zbigniew Babalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The introduction of any state of emergency described in the Constitution or in other laws among people probably my generation, but also a little younger, must arouse sad reflections. I may be wrong, but some people in their speeches have defined an attempt at any analogy between the martial law introduced by Jaruzelski and the present state of emergency at the border of Belarus as completely unauthorised. I have a question for both of you: the rapporteur and the representative of the applicants. During the discussion at the committee meeting, there were words that there was no clarification of the reasons for the introduction of the emergency state at all, and perhaps one of the amendments contained a more detailed provision. I have a question for both gentlemen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shouldn't there be any room for detailing the reasons for the introduction of the state, however, in the Act? After all, we are talking about a state of emergency within the meaning of the 2002 Act on a state of emergency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u148	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u149	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Sad reflection on today's position of parliamentarians, PiS Members, including lawyers. Very sad. You do not understand one thing: today, people who crossed the Belarusian border, who are at the border, are without access to doctors, humanitarian organizations, lawyers, without help. There is no such solution and there should not be such a solution, since the state of emergency has been introduced by a constitution, where there is a threat to the state's system, the security of citizens and public benefit. And if the state of emergency still defines constitutional regulation, then what is it that you're doing? A state of emergency light? A state of emergency for the PiS? A state of emergency for propaganda? It can't be like this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: But how?]] It can't be that simple law, and that's how you're going to change the constitution. This is normally outrageous. [[Voice from the room: But how should it be?]] I'm not discussing this with you. Goodbye. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u150	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: But how can it not be?]] Thank you very much, Mrs Krystina Skowronska. I would very much like to ask Members not to comment on the speech made by the Member and by any other Member who is on this speaker, because it simply interferes and is somewhat contrary to the principles of personal culture. [[Mr. Marshal, we don't expect anything from them. Thank you very much.]] [[Voice from the room: Nothing good.]] [[Nothing good.]] Please, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have heard many words here: at the border. Ladies and gentlemen, High Sejm, the border is a line, there may be another line on this line, i.e. the next border, the border of Poland and Belarus, the border of the European Union and Belarus. Nothing can happen and nothing can be on the border. Something's happening either on one side of the border or on the other side of the border. That's another line. Crossing the border between civilized states shall take place on a specific basis and in a specific place. In this case, I do not know, the delivery, as some say here, of humanitarian aid on this border, is being de facto abroad, i.e. a breach of the border (the bell) from the Polish side. I ask for a detailed explanation of this issue. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u152	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Darius Rosati.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u153	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Constitution does not prejudge, or at least does not explicitly, whether the extension of the state of emergency requires an absolute majority of votes, such as its introduction, or whether a simple majority is sufficient. Therefore, I have a question for the applicants whether and in what form they consulted the constitutionalists on this matter. Are there valid opinions on how to read the article? 230 and Article 230 231? I would like to thank you for explaining on the basis of which opinions you have determined that a simple majority will suffice. This would be strange because the introduction takes place for 30 days and requires an absolute majority. A 60-day extension wouldn't require a majority, so I have some doubts, but I don't want to speak. On this occasion, Mr. Marshal, I would like to ask you to consider that the role of the Sejm as an independent institution is gradually degraded. The majority of the parliament actually turns into an extension of the Council of Ministers, which is taking the main legislative initiatives and throwing them to Members in such a way that it can be done in a fast way. I have an indisputable impression that we - we and the country sitting here - have less and less influence as Members, even though you are in the majority of the government and we are in opposition, on the course of the legislative process in our country. Perhaps we should, Mr. Marshal, take care that this House's position is strengthened in relation to the small House that sits in this tram? [[And a dark living room.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President, for this vote. I would like to say that this is part of the initiative of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland, which presented solutions for improving or repairing this dwarfed essence of parliamentarianism that we are dealing with. We called her an open parliamentarian. We invite all Members, not only opposition members, but also members of the governing party. I would remind you that before the rule of law and justice was taken over, the so-called Law and Justice program had so-called. the democratic package which has been postponed ad Kalendas Graecas. [[Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm very happy for you.]] Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Maciej Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This change is about one fundamental thing, that the state of emergency should cease to be exceptional, that the state of emergency should cease to be extraordinary. After all, it is not about Friday's vote, in which the governing majority can count on the Confederation, it can count on nationalists - just like your predecessor, when it comes to this work, General Jaruzelski. It's not about Friday's vote, it's about another, another, and another state of emergency that you're going to be introducing. The point is that restrictions on civil rights, restrictions on the media, restrictions on movement become a new norm, because you will not run out of excuses. The hybrid war is the break-in of Minister Dworczyk's mailboxes, the hybrid war for Mr Kowalski is the European Union's actions, so the pretexts to introduce further states of emergency will not be lacking. You want to be able to do it with ease, you want to be able to make it possible to limit the media, to limit (the bell) civil rights, to limit the right to move a new standard. That's the whole point of changing the rules. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u156	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask the floor of Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u157	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A state of emergency is no small thing. The PiS of this bill, first of all, corrupts the law, spoils the state and de facto marginalizes the Sejm completely. The most sad thing is that the PiS for political interest, for party interest plays the security of the state and nation. The PiS state speaks beautifully of support for entrepreneurs, but when we vote on amendments in this Chamber, you are against support for entrepreneurs. It's about entrepreneurs in the tourism industry, those who run souvenir shops, they're doing culture. or widely understood entertainment. You forbade them from doing business. It's not about the welfare of the state, it's about the welfare of the part of the PiS. The point is, today you have internal friction and you're afraid you might just lose this vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u158	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask the floor of Mr Piotr Kaleta.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u159	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Let me begin by expressing my regret that the Marshal did not respond when insulting words came out of the Members' mouth. One of them said Goebbels would be proud of your minister. I think it would have to be said here that psychiatry is not proud of this Member. Here's another thing. You didn't react, Marshal, when one of the Members said the police were killing Poles. It is unworthy, it is shameful that such words should be spoken in this House and there was no Marshal's reaction in this way. [[Applause]] This isn't right. But to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, it came from Mr Urbaniak's mouth that the Constitution forbids us to take care of the security of Poles, perhaps shortcuts. Indeed, the constitution, when it was written, did not foresee that in 2021 we would have an opposition like you, who would not care about the safety of Poles, but would think about how to introduce people who - we saw - rape cows into our country. What other arguments are to be made from this pulpit? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What other arguments are to be made from this speaker so that you know what danger we are in? Are you saying we're working for Lukashenka? People, for God's sake, think about it, you are Members of the brightest Republic and take care of the interests of Poles, and only in the next place do you care about the interests of other nations. That's what you're here for. That's why you take the heavy money Poles pay with heavy taxes. [[It's getting taller.]] You're supposed to keep them safe, and you don't do clothes for anybody. This is your fucking duty. I'm still here for Mr Dyduch. Sir, I'm not gonna fuck off with the PZPR, I'm gonna fuck with this formation every time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u160	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Mr Peter Kalet, Even if it is what you say it is, you must also reflect on your own attitude in the Parliament's Chamber, when you regularly address all Members of Parliament. I'm even assuming you're with those messengers in such intimacy... [[That's a bad comparison, Marshal.]] ...but we are in the middle of a Parliamentary debate and a little bit of personal culture would require that we not shout to Members per you when they try to present their position from the Seymary, because this, you will agree, interferes with the presentation of such a position. That's it. That's it. [[The Marshal's office is also committed to something.]] Thank you for this comment, of course I accept it. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u161	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Messengers and Dear Members! The situation is unique because the state is unique, because we are dealing with an unpredictable neighbour and we know how difficult the Polish state is. But the Polish state is winning from every situation, it has to cope in every situation, also in the one that has to do with the Zapad exercises 2021. We know the scale of these exercises. This was reported by Minister Mariusz Kaminski and Deputy Minister of National Defence, Minister Skurkiewicz, at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. I would ask for a serious approach to this situation, because, as we know, there has also been a meeting of classified committees in this area, and we cannot talk here about what arguments have been made there, but the case is really serious. The most important thing I'd like to say is that there are a lot of tears here, also from this Seym Hall in front of the High House. I would ask you to distinguish between refugees who escape war activities, who protect themselves from the effects of war, from economic immigrants (the bell), because we know that. In Minsk, they land aircraft from Baghdad, and in Iraq... [[There's kids out there.]] ...Mr. Chairman, as we know, there has been no war for several good years, so that this is pure provocation of Lukashenka... [[You're taking the kids abroad.]] ...which is also supported by those who... [[Voice from the room: Your job is to support...]] Dear Member, economic immigrants, not refugees. Thank you very much. [[Children, children. You sent the kids to the cold.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u162	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Klimczak will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u163	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The subject that we are dealing with under this point is closely and necessarily related to one of the most important decisions, and perhaps some will say that the most important decision that this Sejm will make during this sitting. The turnout in government benches does not indicate this at all, although Law and Justice in media coverage raises the issue of extending the state of emergency as one of the most important today in Poland. In this case, you've just found a patent and you'll get a helping hand from the Confederation, your silent coalitioner, but tell me what you're going to do, how you're going to change the rules and how you're going to process the lack of majority over other cases. Can you still make difficult decisions in the country, or do you have an individual, independent majority? I don't think it's patriotic to play by the rules of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u164	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński closes the list of people who have been written to questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u165	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As proposed by the Sejm, the review of the President's regulation on the introduction and extension of martial law or the state of emergency will take place as soon as it has been sent to the Sejm. Under Polish law, the President is not obliged to consult such states with the National Security Council. Dear Mr. President, I appeal to you from this point of view to exercise this statutory right to reply to the Poles before sending your application to the Sejm, why it is impossible to accredit journalists at the border, and to answer to Poles why those who need help and are sick and dying cannot be given humanitarian aid. Dear Mr President of the Republic of Poland, I'm counting on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u166	Thank you very much. On this we closed the list of people who were enrolled in the question. I now ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Discussion, the debate in this House reflects exactly what was at the committee meeting. This dispute was presented to the same extent by representatives of individual clubs at a committee meeting. The Commission has taken such a decision, not another, to reject the proposed amendments and to adopt the original proposal. I still think there's some misunderstanding in spite of the applicants' intentions. I think that in a moment the representative of the applicants will explain some things. But here I think Mr Rosati has quite rightly drawn attention - mostly I do not agree with you, but here I do agree - that the Constitution does not, however, regulate this issue of extending the state of emergency or at all emergency states. This regulation is universal. I think there is no doubt that it does not apply only to the one state of emergency, which we will extend if the President makes an appropriate request. This is a universal solution. Undoubtedly, with regard to the emergency condition, as defined in the article. 230 and Article 230 233 of the Constitution, in parallel to the article. 120, we need to regulate this so that there is no doubt about what majority we are adopting a resolution on the extension of this state. The applicants took the view that since this is not regulated and Article. 120 of the Constitution states that in cases where no qualified majority is required - in this case it is an absolute majority, but the constitution states another qualified majority: 3/5, 2/3, etc. - you can do it with most of the usual. One of the arguments that have been made in the Chamber and which have convinced me is that it is not the introduction of another state of emergency, but the extension of the existing state of emergency on the basis of the majority or the vast majority of the proposals originally put forward. Sometimes new ones may arise - they may be the same - circumstances that convince the Sejm or do not convince the Sejm, first they must convince the President, then the Sejm, to keep such a state of emergency in force. Given that an extension of this condition may occur even at the last moment... There will be circumstances that convince the government, convince the president, at the last moment, there will be a motion. There cannot be such a situation that there will be a seismic obstruction - we know that it can occur for various reasons, substantive, but rather political - so that it does not happen before the end of this state. Then we could not, as I have already said, repeat this once again, prolong this state. We'd have to reinstate it. Perhaps it would take a day, 2 days, and such a day or 2 days may cause an irreversible increase in security risks at the border. [[Look what you're doing.]] These are the terms on my part absolutely and exclusively substantively, I do not judge this politically. Mr Grabczuk, perhaps by misunderstood, spoke of the fact that as a legislator, we have reduced the activities of economic operators in an emergency zone. There is no restriction on the activities of any economic operator. Their possible losses may be due to the fact that there are fewer people there. The outsiders aren't coming. There are only those who live or work in this zone and can reside there without any restrictions, while outsiders actually have restrictions, and this is generally absolute, they cannot enter this zone, but there is no restriction on the conduct of business itself. Any entity may carry out this business to the full extent. There are adjustments. I think it's time. The 14th meeting of the committee shall be convened. I think we'll settle these amendments at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u168	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for the committee. The applicant's representative, Mr Jarosław Zieliński, will also speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like, on behalf of the Members of the applicant, to address some of the points that have been raised in this debate. Besides, the rapporteur, Mr Smolinski, has already said this. Indeed, this course of discussion reflects yesterday's meeting of the Rules of Procedure Committee. There, too, despite some repeated questions being explained, these explanations were not accepted, but those who were discussing insisted on their own. There's some confusion here. Of course, it is intentional. We know for what political reasons this is for. So one at a time. First of all, High Sejm, there's a loophole in the Sejm's rules that we want to fill in. This gap is not completed on an ad hoc basis in connection with this case, since it is likely that a request for extension of the current state of emergency in the part of the territory of the Republic of Poland at the Polish-Belarusian border will soon be made in the Sejm. That's what we have, at least the media, announcements. The president hasn't sent the motion yet. It's not just about this situation. It is a permanent regulation of a procedure when one of the emergency states is introduced, and there are three emergency states: martial law, emergency state and natural disaster. This regulation concerns both how the Sejm is to proceed with the referral by the President of the Republic of Poland of a regulation which the Sejm is considering in accordance with the provision of the Constitution as well as how the Sejm should proceed in giving its consent to the extension of a given state. This applies to all three emergency states, not just one. Here to the left, this liberal-left side of the seym scene, I want to refer to this association. As we all remember, the opposition at one time proposed the introduction of a natural disaster near the date of the presidential election. After all, if such a condition had been introduced then, we would also have no regulation as to how the Sejm should deal with it, because so far there was no need to do so. [[The regulations are in the Constitution, please don't lie.]] Calm down, ma'am. Madame, I would very much like to ask you to allow me to speak to you. The sympathetic Member does not have such a voice of aggression. What's that for? Ladies and gentlemen! There's no regulation. Until now, there have been no extraordinary conditions under the current constitution, so maybe that's why there is this gap. Let us say that even if there were no amendment to the Rules of Procedure which we propose as a group of Members of the Law and Justice, if the President's request for an extension of the state of emergency had been received, the Sejm would have had to consider it, as he had considered the matter of the introductory regulation. On the other hand, it would be more difficult for the Sejm to act in a normal way if there were no such regulation. So we want to do it again, not for one state and not for an emergency, but for a lasting solution to this case. That's one thing. Two. There are a lot of emotions around this parliamentary majority to be applied if the Sejm agrees to extend the duration of a given emergency state. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the constitution, which has already been explained, but I will repeat once again, because I think it is never enough to repeat it, since you do not accept it, otherwise it regulates the matter concerning the examination by the Sejm of the President's regulation on the introduction of a state of emergency. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 231 It is clear that the President of the regulation on the introduction of martial law or exceptional law shall present it to the Sejm within 48 hours of the signature of the regulation. The Sejm shall immediately examine the regulation of the President of the Republic. The Sejm may repeal them by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. It may be repealed if such a request fails. Then an absolute majority of votes is required. That's what the article says. 231 constitutions. If the constitution required the same majority to agree to an extension of the state of emergency, of course such a provision would be in the constitution, but it is different. Why is he different? The constitution's creators predicted a difference. Art. Point (b) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2 reads: An extension of the state of emergency may take place only once with the approval of the Sejm and for a period of not more than 60 days. There is no absolute majority requirement here. If there was such a requirement, it would also be said. The Constitution, let us say it very clearly, does not require this absolute majority in the agreement of the Sejm to extend the state of emergency. Art. 120, which also requires a very calm quote, establishes the principle used by the Sejm. This principle is that the Sejm shall adopt the laws by a simple majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members, unless the Constitution provides for a different majority. In the same manner, the Sejm shall adopt resolutions unless otherwise provided for in the law or resolution of the Sejm. Neither the constitution nor the law nor the resolution on this matter provides otherwise. A simple majority shall therefore be required. And if today, let us imagine such a situation, without adopting this amendment in the Rules of Procedure, we dealt with the President of the Republic's request for an extension of the state of emergency so that we would vote by a simple majority. No one could challenge that, no one would have reason to challenge it, because art. 120 is the answer. Mr Rosati asked about the constitutionalists whether we consulted them. Yesterday, at the sitting of the Rules of Procedure Committee, the Bureau of Sejm Analysis was very clear in favour of our interpretation of the matter, quite obvious because it is logical and results directly from the provisions of the Constitution, saying, in relation to the article. 120 that the Sejm could raise this requirement by a resolution, here, in the Rules of Procedure, to an absolute majority, but this is not a constitutional requirement. If the Sejm would have thought so, he could have done so. Then the majority would be in force. But it's not in our submission. We do not think that it makes any sense to make such a need, all the more so because we read directly the constitution which requires that the President's regulation on the extraordinary state of the absolute majority be repealed, but does not require that when he consents to its extension. And that's the basic thing. And there's nothing to argue about, ladies and gentlemen, the High Sejm. These emotions aren't necessary at all. There are two visions, two ideas about this case. Some believe, we believe, that the ordinary majority that follows from the article. 120 Constitutions are enough to allow an extension of the emergency, but there is a part of the Members, so the opposition says, that is not enough. This should be voted out. The Sejm will decide by a majority whether this is the case or not. Why all the excitement around it? They're not entitled to such charges that we want to reduce the requirements. On the contrary, you want to raise them. Of course, you can imagine that, but it would require a majority in the Seym. The situation is the other way around. We don't lower anything. We retain the normal constitutional rule, which consists in voting by a simple majority, unless otherwise stated in the Constitution, in the laws or in the resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, another matter of confusion. We're talking about changing the rules of the Sejm. That is the subject, the subject of this submission. During the committee meetings, yesterday and today, also here in the plenary room, there were discussions about the state of emergency itself, whether it is justified, what it brought, what will be after the next 60 days, what are the assessments of what that party is doing, the assessments of our services. This is not part of the subject right now, but it will also need to be addressed. This is not the subject of our discussion, but, by the way, since this is being discussed, I would also like to say very clearly that I am surprised by those who ignore the state of emergency at the Polish-Belarusian border, which is at the same time the border of the European Union. I am a member representing the Podlaskie voivodship, this is my constituency. Believe me, I really have a lot of contacts, almost every day, with those who live close to the border. They really, all those who speak on this subject are grateful to the government and the Sejm that they did not repeal it, that the President's regulation is precisely that there is a state of emergency, because it has been safer since then. The state of emergency didn't solve all the problems, of course, we hear about it, but it's much safer. The Polish State made an effort that should have been done and took this decision at the request of the Council of Ministers. The President of the Republic... [[Then what did you do as Minister?]] I'll tell you right away, Member. Very good of you to cause this. At the time, there were no such threats for objective reasons, not because I was a minister, and now I am not, because the Lukashenka regime supported by Putin and the Russian Federation did not carry out those actions that are leading today towards Poland and the European Union, seeking to destabilise the situation at borders, but not only at borders, because it is about destabilizing the area of Poland and the European Union. We do not know in what dimension these intentions are made, but it certainly begins with this. But, honourable Member, although I am not used to responding to the fights from the Chamber, I will answer that. We have just done a lot: at the time when I was responsible for overseeing the MMA's uniform services, when there is the Government of Law and Justice since 2015, then and now, because it is thanks to both the strengthening of the Border Guard and the modernisation of the Border Guard, and of course thanks to the strengthening of the Polish Army and its modernisation that we have a much better situation. [[Applause]] than when you guys took down the Border Guard facilities. Krynki - such a good symbolic example - lies in a special condition zone at the moment. This is the Border Guard facility you wanted to liquidate. We defended this facility, we defended it because you were scared by the media that you'd get run over for it. We built there a new Border Guard facility, surveillance towers at the border, equipped the Guards. They limit the necessary equipment, and it is really very specialized, modern and not cheap - this was served by the modernisation programme for PLN 9200 million for 4 years, from 2017 to 2020. Thanks to this, the Border Guard is in better condition today, has more power and ability to act, and this makes it safer. The same applies to the army that has been strengthened. There was a fifth type of Armed Forces - the Territorial Defence Army, of which you have mocked, which you have questioned, and a very important role they play at the border at the moment, fulfills this formation, this fifth type of Armed Forces - the Territorial Defence Army. You also wanted to liquidate other facilities in that area, e.g. in Rutce-Tartak, in the Sejny - we also defended them. Those were your intentions, your intentions. [[We weren't supposed to talk about it anymore.]] Enough of that, you've wiped out entire troops, the Carpathian Border Guard unit you've wiped out. [[A voice from the hall: And you have created and cannot defend these limits.]] We brought him back. Thanks to this it is safe, our services are more mobile, they have better possibilities for action. You've also eliminated more than half the police stations. We've been playing and replaying these precincts. That's important too. The police are also involved in these activities for the security of the border area. [[But it's not in the rules.]] And that's what you want to talk about. You've started. We were talking about the rules of procedure, and you were on the committee and now on security issues. Don't underestimate it for real. Mr Marek Dyduch seems to have expressed his highest disregard for this. Of course, I am not surprised, knowing that you are politically motivated, that you see it that way, but you must not underestimate the threat at the Polish-Belarusian border. After all, this threat is supported by the Russian Federation, by the Putin authorities, and there is no doubt about it. If you start discussing this now, who is guilty of something tragic happening in that area, and you suggest that it is Poland that is guilty, then you bear witness to the one on whose side you are on. You are not on the side of Polish security, you are not on the side of the security of the European Union, and you have a mouthful of clichés about the European Union. [[Applause]] You're not. You are on the side of those who want to increase this threat in Poland. The Polish state is not a paper state under the rule of Law and Justice... [[You're overreacting, which isn't much.]] ...and does what he can, does what he can to ensure the safety of Poland and Poles. I hope that we will ensure this safety in the end. How can we even have doubts today about who is guilty of the death of a few people? Is Poland to blame? What did Poland do to these people? What did Poland do to them? [[She just didn't provide humanitarian aid.]] Not Lukashenka? Poland, right? [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are on Lukashenka's side, then, and on Putin's side. And what are we talking about? [[You always draw illogical conclusions.]] [[Voice from the room: But where: in Poland or Belarus?]] Mr Urbaniak has already outdone himself today. Yesterday he also discussed on the committee, nothing came to him, he was impregnated with all arguments. Today he proved this great impregnation and his immunity. It is not the PiS Members who are talking about security issues, the validity of the state of emergency and its effects, and what is going on, but this is what you have just started, going away from the rules, because we only wanted to regulate a certain chapter, to write down new in the rules that are missing. And today you're accusing us of it. Well, sir, hypocrisy is really reaching its limits. It's a shame to discuss it. It's a waste of time. Ladies and gentlemen! These issues need to be settled. The usual majority where the ordinary majority, the ruthless majority where its constitution requires it. And don't worry - and I will say last but not least - about our majority in the Seym as an option which at the moment exercises power thanks to the voters and the majority that we received in the parliamentary elections. That's not your concern. This is our concern (the bell) and leave it alone. That's not really your problem. [[Applause]] [[Room vote: for committees, bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u170	Thank you very much to the applicant's representative. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, amendments were tabled to the draft resolution tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity for the purpose of submitting a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science (Prints No. 1398 and 1430). I ask Mr Kazimierz Moskal to present a report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Education Committee, I would like to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science, print No. 1398. The draft law entered the Sejm on 8 July 2021. On 14 July 2021, this draft was sent to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for first reading. The first reading of the committee took place on 23 July 2021. This government bill on amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science concerns guaranteeing that the members of the university community can freely express their thoughts and words. The solution is related to reported violations of freedom of expression that occur at universities. The bill includes six articles. Art. 1 concerns amendments proposed in the Law of 20 July 2018 - Law on Higher Education and Science. Nine changes have been made here. On the other hand, the article. 2 and 6 are adaptation provisions. About an hour. The 12th session of the committee began. First, Deputy Minister Prof. Bernacki presented the project, then a discussion took place. The discussion was attended by 24 speakers: 17 Members, one MEP and six representatives of corporations associated with universities. The discussion was held, there were different opinions and views of Members. On the other hand, with regard to the speeches made by university corporations, there were only certain comments that this law should not enter into force. It was also presented by Barbara Nowacka, representing the Civic Platform, with a proposal to reject the project at first reading. [[The Civic Coalition.]] A request has also been made for a public hearing proposed by Mrs Dziemianowicz-Bak. As a result of the vote, the motion for rejection was voted negative. 17 Members were against this proposal, 10 Members voted in favour of Mrs Barbara Nowacka's proposal. With regard to the request for a public hearing made by Mrs Dziemianowicz-Bąk, 10 people voted in favour of this request, 17 people opposed and one abstention. The bill was later processed and a motion was made for it to be passed. The proposal was accepted: 17 Members were in favour, 10 Members were against it. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, I ask the High Sejm to adopt the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u172	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kazimierz Moskal will be the first to speak again, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice this time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the law - Law on Higher Education and Science, print no. 1398 and 1430. The bill provides for certain amendments to the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science. Work on the proposed changes has been initiated in connection with violations of freedom of expression at universities, resulting in highly undesirable phenomena of censorship of thoughts and words. Those risks are reflected, among others.: exerting psychological pressure, verbal aggression, preventing participation in scientific events, obstructing publicity activities or initiating disciplinary proceedings. The latter, the initiation of disciplinary proceedings, was often unjustified. There are a lot of cases like this. They are particularly acutely felt by academic teachers. They have serious consequences in their personal and professional lives. These undesirable phenomena also translate into the development and quality of Polish science. It should also be stressed here that respect for freedom of expression, including religious, worldview or philosophical beliefs, is already declared by the Constitution, especially in the provisions of the Article. 54 and Article 5 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council 73. Therefore, the proposal put forward by the Government of Law and Justice is an acceptable proposal. Law and Justice will vote in favour of this law. At this point, I would also like to make an amendment, Mr Marshal, to this bill. Please accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u174	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mrs Barbara Nowacka to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u175	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Civic Coalition is the guardian of freedom. Freedom of speech, freedom of science, freedom of research. Therefore, we apply for rejection at the second reading of this law on the amendment of the law. Why? This isn't a freedom of speech dispute. Art. 54th Constitution states: Everyone is given the freedom to express their views and to obtain and disseminate information. You don't need a bill for that. This is not a dispute over the right of expression at the university, because this law exists and is well regulated by the regulations of individual universities, as well as jointly established by universities of practice. It just works. This is a dispute about the truth, the right to preach the truth, the right to study at universities. The trend of centralization among PiS politicians is gigantic and uncontrollable. They were trying to centralize the media, the courts, restrict freedom of speech in schools, take away women's rights, now they're dealing with the right of science to remain a science. This is also a dispute about university autonomy, as far as universities can decide for themselves how to clear themselves of nonsense and stupidity. The universities are doing it well. You have this incredible tendency to tell stories, because here we have already discussed with the Minister at many committee meetings and subcommittees about some violations and examples of terrible repression against several people who have abused their position as a candidate and who have had various disputes with their university. Paradoxically, you are usually on the side of homophobes, aggressors, and those who have ruled people out because of their views on women's rights. [[Applause]] For individual examples, you introduce a dangerous law, a law that will make Hyde Park a university, a law that tells the rector at the end to defend a filmmaker or a negationist of the Holocaust, if this person says: these are my philosophical or religious beliefs. This is a violation of the right of students and students to reliable knowledge and the right of researchers to freedom of research. [[Applause]] The scientific debate assumes, ladies and gentlemen, the use of scientific arguments rather than referring to the belief of a worldviewer or a religious researcher. Otherwise, it's no longer science. This one works in search of the truth subject to the strict methodology appropriate to the discipline, the truth verifiable in scientific discourse, not ideologically colored, and the project is completely different. The notabene project has received a negative opinion from all major scientific bodies: the General Council of Science and Higher Education, the KRASP, the Scientific Policy Committee, the RPO protests about restricting freedom, in fact the freedom and autonomy of universities, and you call it the freedom package. I feel like whatever you call the truth is a lie, what you call the law, is lawlessness, [[Applause]] And what you call justice is injustice. The only thing that fits is nepotism in your way. And now the Civic Coalition will try to help you. We also make an amendment that changes your article. 275. However, we suggest that it does not constitute a violation of disciplinary expression of religious, worldview or philosophical beliefs, if you so desire, which are not contrary to the scientific criterion. If you are on the side of science and not on the side of superstition, let us assume that at universities this science has the right to exist, because freedom of scientific and artistic creation is art. 73 constitutions. It is also worth calling upon, talking about integrity. Mr. Marshal, I'm leaving an amendment. Good. And two more things you're doing there. You're setting up a special disciplinary committee at Minister Black. We know what Mr. Czarnek's people look like, and we know that this money will go mostly to various types of exorcists. The same will be true of this committee: party, benevolent, ideological. And besides, you put in place a mechanism to act backwards and you waive all disciplinary penalties for those who sow hatred, mischief, homophobia, just because you like such views. The Minister is denying it now. The Minister knows very well how important freedom of expression is for science, but also the scientific method. Otherwise, science is no longer science. You don't want science to be science and college to be college. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want everything to be like Minister Czarnek. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u176	Thank you very much, madam. I now ask the floor of Mr Marcin Kulask, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u177	Dear Marshal, Minister! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, High Izbo! It is rare that the High Chamber's deliberations are subject to a bill which is entirely redundant. Such a position was put forward, among others. Conference of Rectors of Polish Universities, Committee on ethics in science, Main Council of Science and Higher Education, Polish Academy of Sciences, Faculty of Polish and Classical Philology of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań, Council of Higher Education and Science of the Polish Teachers' Association, Academy of Young Scientists, Institute of Philosophy and Sociology of the Polish Academy of Sciences, Conference of Rectors of Academic Medical Universities, Scientific Policy Committee. The management of the Ministry of Education and Science has been promoting the idea that freedom of research and freedom of academic discussion at universities are at risk in Poland for several months. As you can see, this thesis is not shared by organisations bringing together academic teachers, scientists, trade unions. However, the Ministry of Science is making efforts to fight the threat that only the Ministry and radical groups around Ordo Iuris see in Poland. The aim of this project is to de facto focus disciplinary power on academic teachers in the hands of the Ministry. Any decision of the university disciplinary board can be repealed by the Ministry, which will make disciplinary proceedings at universities facade. This is a direct violation of the autonomy of universities in Poland. In addition, the project confuses two orders: scientific and publicist. As the Main Council of Science and Higher Education points out, the adoption of the following provisions does not constitute a violation of disciplinary expression of religious, worldview or philosophical beliefs without requiring the authors of such statements to comply with scientific criteria in the academic debate, both in scientific work and in the educational process, but would jeopardise the impunity of people with extreme or radical beliefs. The Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland notes that freedom of expression must be associated with respect for human dignity, and academic freedom must not consist in preaching opinions in the university space ignoring the knowledge and methodology of scientific research. Universities are and should become an area of freedom for scientific debate and politically neutral institutions. Also, the Polish Academy of Sciences in its adopted position considers the proposed amendment to the law to be incorrect. I wonder if the representatives of the Law and Justice have bothered to determine the consequences of the project by Minister Czarnek, who is so eager to support it. The key provision of the government's project is: It is not a violation of disciplinary expression of religious, worldview or philosophical beliefs. This raises the following doubts. First, what if the scientist decides to forge scientific research results so that the results are consistent with his world view and religion? [[That's what Anthony's doing in the report.]] Then will the Ministry also release him from disciplinary responsibility? Secondly, what if the academic teacher of the conservative version of Islam was in the class preaching views on the role of women in society in line with the conservative interpretation of the Koran? Will the Ministry of Science accept the permission to preach such views when such a lecturer is veiled by religious freedom? High Izbo! I propose that each Member, in his own mind, seek answers to these questions. If they are not satisfactory, I recommend not to vote for a law that will bring more harm than good. This is a legal bullshit whose place is in the basket. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u178	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Dariusz Klimczak to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u179	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Although I am not a academic at any university, I have very often close contacts with many of them, both public and private, with students, with PhD students, with academics and with university authorities. And I will tell you honestly that I hear from them many problems of Polish universities with money, infrastructure, dorms, issues concerning scholarships, scientific projects, but I have never heard of anyone regretting that there is a problem with freedom of speech at Polish universities. Behind the belt is the inauguration of the academic year. What do we do here? Are the real challenges facing Polish science? Or, for example, Minister Czarnek just before October 1st, he made sure that every student who needs it took place in the dorm? Ladies and gentlemen, do the Minister know the statistics at all, that only 10% students can count on accommodation in dorms? And I count both public and private ones, which are also in Poland. Did Minister Czarnek make sure that the price of the dorm space did not increase before 1 October? And it's increased by a few percent. Or did he take care of food subsidies in the cafeteria or about scientific and social scholarships? These challenges are really very many. Studying in a big city is the best training for the home budget, everyone knows that. Students complain most about the cost of accommodation. This is confirmed by the latest report on the cost of life of students and the study of the Polish Association of Personnel Management. The second issue that students complain about is the excess bureaucracy and formalities at Polish universities. Perhaps the Minister has proposed a solution in this regard. Maybe we'll see the time when there won't be long queues before the dean's office or the secretariats of the institutes. Unfortunately, there are still publications on the problems of science and higher education, and the solutions proposed in this respect by the Ministry in this House are a cure. And unfortunately, whether we like it or not, the theme and key to this debate is freedom of expression. I remember such comments when in 2016 Mr.Jarosław Kaczyński, PiS leader, was awarded the Human Freedom Prize and I saw especially in student cabarets that they were joking about the fact that they were not surprised that he received the prize of freedom because he was the only man who could do anything in Poland. Freedom of expression in Poland is guaranteed not only in the article. 54, but also in Article. 3, Article 49, Art. 14 and Article 14 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of This is very broad in our constitution. Besides, in Poland we have long traditions, after all Kazimierz Wielki already talked about freedom of speech in the Vistula statutes. There's no... With some problems, because we've had a lot of trouble in our complicated history, but we're dealing with it. But we need to get out of this more heroically. What is it? The Act introduced the possibility of bringing an appeal against the order of the rector to instruct the disciplinary officer to start the proceedings. The complaint is to be dealt with by the disciplinary committee at the Minister responsible for Higher Education and Science. The proposal also provides for the abolition of the possibility for the Rector of an academic teacher to suspend his duties in the course of his investigation. Then we're clear. The Minister will decide about freedom of speech, not the university, the rector or the academic community. This is another example of centralization of public authority in Poland, including the unlawful weakening of the autonomy of universities, and interference with the academic community, which has never happened before. In addition, I believe that the entry into force of the proposed rules poses numerous risks, which concern inter alia. the risk of introducing ideological themes in academic debates and imposing opinions on students and PhD students of their own academic teachers. The entry into force of these provisions, in my opinion, guarantees the possibility of transferring emotional disputes of non-academic style to universities and of using universities for political purposes by each party and, above all, by people who preach extreme views, because such are the ones who push towards universities most. When we look at academic opinions, we will see clearly that they are afraid of the situation in which the proposed amendment to the Act (The Bell) will be read as an incentive to present during classes, especially lectures, issues in no way related to the subject matter being pursued or to discuss these issues. Learning has always involved an open discussion. The only condition for this openness was and still is the use of arguments based on the results of reliable scientific research carried out in accordance with the relevant scientific methodology. Each of us knows that such a discussion no longer makes sense if, instead of factual arguments, ideological threads appear. or worldview, which is the nature of political or public debate. Unfortunately, I have the conviction that after the change of this law to universities, anti-vacciners, conspiracy theorists, PiS activists, Confederations, activists of various kinds of strange ointment, pseudo scientists from the Smolensk commission will immediately enter and the destruction of Polish science and academic life will begin. Freedom of speech and PiS - free jokes. Every day at hours. 19.30 we have a demonstration of how freedom of speech is treated by the ruling party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u180	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Arthur Dziambor to present the position of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u181	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I heard a lot of warm words here today. First, that some superstition is a competition for science, and now that the Confederate supporters will be the bad guys who will go to different universities. I wanted to say, ladies and gentlemen, that right now I'm standing in this magical place where there's no virus. But you all think the virus is there, it's right behind me, it's right here - it's all around here. And you think you're based on science, you think you're based on knowledge. In the meantime, the fact that this virus-free zone is here, you too have considered knowledge, while this, Madame, is superstition. Grzegorz Braun was excluded from the Sejm today because he didn't wear a mask. It was your minister who said these masks didn't protect you from anything. We're pretty clear about that. And the fact that the Sejm has introduced such rules and is being trained at this point in time is not based on knowledge, but on superstition, the Member. That's one thing. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of speech lies in the fact that there are professors of medicine who say that the problem of COVID should be dealt with as the government approaches and unfortunately the opposition, screaming that we are all about to die, it is necessary to limit ourselves, introduce lockdowns, sharpenings, closing companies, closing schools, closing hospitals and treating only one common disease. And there are some medical professors who say we should just live normal lives. But who wants to shut their mouths to those medical professors who say we should live normal lives? Well, you want to shut your mouth to those professors who say you should normally live with COVID because it's one of the many diseases that will stay with us. There's a lot of them, but you guys gag their mouths. You all gag their mouths, and especially this side that doesn't allow themselves to think that it might have been a mistake, and that unfortunately it will have to be normal at some point. 449 Members are against those 11 who defend the freedom of expression of those scientists who believe it to be different from the version set out in this very Seym. This bill will allow those people who preach such claims, with whom I happen to agree, not to be expelled from the university, not to be expelled for having a different opinion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that we can talk about this, Madam, in the future, when it comes to gagging mouths and superstitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u182	Dear Member, let me remind you that Mr Grzegorz Braun has been excluded from the Sejm's deliberations... [[For not wearing a mask.]] ...for failing to comply with the regulations that you have otherwise complied with by submitting an appropriate medical certificate... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[I know, but...]] ...that you're kind of freed from wearing that mask. [[Mr. Marshal, I wish you were also freed.]] So there's some inconsistency in your speech. I understand that she was publicist, political, but please also refer to the realities that are what I said. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, I wish you wouldn't wear that mask if you didn't want to. That's it, that's it. Thank you.]] I would now like to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 by Mr Michał Grammarka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u183	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! What's it to say, you're perfectionists. More specifically, there is one area in which you are perfectionists, and this area is about reversing the meaning of words. If you have any doubts As for this, I recommend the book by Katarzyna Kłosińska and Michał Rusinka, a pen by Katarzyna Kłosińska. That's a good change. So when Minister Czarnek uses the words "package of academic freedom," fear man, fear the dorm, for your fate is miserable, university! After all, the essence of this law is to remove disciplinary matters at universities from the hands of university committees and hand them over to the ministerial commission. And for years, academic freedom has been protected by government-independent authorities, with autonomy, elected in democratic elections by the academic community. And your committee, Minister, is to be appointed at your discretion and according to your judgment. And it is she who is the autocratic and anti-freedom tool of the state aimed at the autonomy of the university. Timothy Snyder in his work on tyranny recommends that we listen to dangerous words because they announce the collapse of a democratic rule of law. Yes, Minister, your words are dangerous because you are de facto trying to eliminate the autonomy of the university today. Autonomy is the right of some collective to settle their internal affairs on their own. This is independence and independence in deciding about itself, i.e. the right to have no sovereign State interference. After all, the right to study, which is guaranteed by the article. 70 constitutions are fiction without the autonomy of the university, which is guaranteed by the mouth. 5 of this article. You may, Minister, be a bonapartist and dream of a creation that was established in 1806 by the Imperial University, a state administration that was completely subordinate to the emperor, giving you, preferably, a monopoly in matters of education and full control of education and science. The problem is that such understanding of the university has nothing to do with Wilhelm von Humboldt's idea of universally and defining the university's mission to develop science and seek the truth, not just your legitimate truth with a penalty that threatens anyone who has a different opinion, but just the truth to which the desire implies dispute and tolerance for different views, and even acceptance that only the right truth may simply not be. Your bill carries dangerous words with it today. She is part of your consistently cultivated destruction of institutions and undermining authority. This bill is wrong. She's bad for Polish science. It's only suitable for basketball. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u184	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Michael to drink on behalf of the Agreement circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u185	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are debating today, now, at this moment, about a project that has gathered only negative opinions in the academic community. KRASP or the General Council of Science and Higher Education pay attention to the need for these regulations, but also to a questionable or defective legal structure that can lead to abuse. The academic community also points out that the submitted government project is unduly interfering with the autonomy of universities, which could lead to and de facto be a threat to the freedom of research, academic freedom. I would like to return to April 2009, to the rule of the Civic Platform and to the Minister Barbara Kudrycka, who, in April 2009, after publishing the famous work of young historian Paweł Zyzak, commissioned extraordinary control, completely outside the system. Then, after this information, the whole academic community was on the alert because it was the first such far-reaching attempt to interfere. The pressure of the academic community, but also of its own political background, led the Minister not to dare to carry out this extraordinary control completely outside the system. Today, this project of Law and Justice and the Ministry of Education and Science is implementing the dream of Minister Kudrycka. Therefore, my political environment will not put its hand on restricting freedom of research, freedom at Polish universities. We're not gonna put our hands together to interfere with the autonomy of the university. We consider the project unnecessary, completely unnecessary. Worst of all, it is another confirmation of the process of removing State institutions' fuses, which can turn against those researchers you allegedly want to defend today. For this lack of political imagination and for the wrong, wrong and completely unnecessary project... Of course, my political community won't put a hand in it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Girzyński on behalf of the Polish Case Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Higher education is a place where people with very different political views and different views of the social reality surrounding them work. They work there not because of their views, but because of their knowledge, their degrees or their academic title, which they have gained by their hard work. And that's all they need to be accounted for. I regret to note that for some time there has been a tendency to interfere in the statements of people working at universities, to interfere in speeches not during classes, not during scientific conferences which are subject to normal review procedures, but in statements that these people, scholars of various world views, make in the media or on various kinds of social networks. Let me give you an example - an example I witnessed. More than a year ago, during the presidential campaign, the professor of my university standing next to me at a press conference, a man of great respect, with great knowledge, respected by various sides of the political scene, Prof. Wojciech Polek said: President Duda is President of Poland, stable and normal. It rejects all unwise gender tendencies, LGBT. This statement became the subject of an attack on Professor Wojciech Polak and complaints to the rector... [[Voice from the room: Right.]] ... because someone didn't like it and was considered a homophobic attack against a large part of society - the very questioning of some other ideology. Ladies and gentlemen, ideologies are contradictory. In a natural way, someone supports one and someone supports the other. Demanding sanctions against anyone for having a different ideological view is the greatest totalitarianism that can be met. Because I would never agree with Professor Jan Hartman's opinions. In fact, I disagree with some in an extreme way, but I would go to prison if it were necessary for him to be able to preach. And although I've never agreed with many of his speeches, not only would I never file a complaint against him, but I would still defend him because he has the right to do so, because his knowledge comes from the scientific degrees and degrees he has gained. Therefore, it is important to introduce a mechanism whereby, if - at some university, unlike mine, where this procedure has not been initiated, someone would try to impose sanctions on a person employed in a higher education institution because of the views he preaches, regardless (the bell) or the left-wing or right-wing, he should have the right to appeal. Thank you very much. That's a good record. On the other hand - and this is the last sentence, Your Marshal, I ask only this possibility - it would be a bad thing, and I warn the Ministry to give such a mechanism to the Minister, because it can turn back sooner or later on the other way.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u188	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. Nearly 40 Members signed up for the question. I'm setting the time - one minute. I'm closing the list. Please hold on to your time. The first question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I shouldn't have said anything after the speech of the Member's Professor, because that's how I see it. In line with the draft amendment, the rector will have an additional task of ensuring that freedom of education, freedom of expression, research and the publication of results are respected in the university. This will also apply to the academic debate organised by the members of the university community, with respect to the principles of worldview pluralism and the regulations of the universities. The Rector will be able to carry out this task by monitoring respect for university freedom. It's freedom, isn't it? If there is no interference, that is the respect of universities, respect for both teaching staff and students. On the other hand, I am surprised that you believe that this is a restriction of freedom. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u190	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! Beware of the Greeks when they bring gifts - said the Trojans. Remember what happened when they brought the Trojan horse. And it's very similar about when Mr. Czarnek starts talking about freedom. If Mr. Czarnek wants any freedom, to present his autonomy to the universities, we should always be very careful. If we observe what happens in education, e.g. what is happening in Cracow when it comes to the freedom of certain directors to act against the law, e.g. In matters of religion at school, we realize that this freedom will also be the freedom to speak any nonsense provided that these nonsenses fit into the ideology and viewpoint of Minister Czarnek. A special committee at the Ministry, special actions that aim to ensure that people who have such a look as the Minister of Blacks on minorities, such as Minister Czarnek's view of the role of a woman, such a view as Minister Czarnek's view of the world, can speak any nonsense at any university. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's the academic freedom. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u192	Thank you. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u193	The amendment of the Law on Higher Education and Science is a scandalous and lying project. The project falsely uses the word "freedom" when it de facto leads to a reduction in university freedom and autonomy. The possibility of questioning and cancelling decisions taken by the statutory university authorities through a disciplinary committee attached to the Minister is introduced. Thus, the law introduces government control over universities. If this bill comes into force, the university's autonomy will be over. It's been like this before, but it wasn't a glorious period of our history. Moreover, this law departs from the basic function of the university, which is the transfer of scientific knowledge, from the rule of reason and rationalism towards the religiously motivated fair of all thought, where the strange people and movements of Ordo Iuris or anti-vacciners will preach their views as if they were scientific. According to the provisions of the Act, world-spectrum neutral universities are to become another exhibition (The Bell) of religious institutions and other fanaticisms. Religion and rational trends will prevail in universities, reason will go underground. Thank you kindly. I'm almost done, Marshal. Minister Czarnek, do you not have enough destruction, ideology of school education, promotion of the virtues of the women and giving children to victims of violence into the hands of exorcists? Thank you very much. Do you really want to write down... Thank you very much. ...to trample the autonomy of universities and their worldview neutrality? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister to bring up two or three substantive arguments to show why you need this committee at the Minister's office. [[Voice from the room: She's here.]] Please mention three arguments why the Minister will settle disciplinary matters better than the academic community, this institution over the years, and also the rector? I ask for three factual arguments, because it is difficult to find in the justification of this bill. And last but not least, what verdict will this infallible minister give when a young doctor at a medical school starts preaching his ideas or such ideologies about vaccination that they don't actually help that they're bad for our health, and you're gonna get a case like this? What's the minister's verdict? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation. Please ask me to ask you a question. At the same time, I remind you that we are over an hour behind schedule, and therefore I ask you to stick to the time set.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u197	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! During my studies, I had the pleasure of having a class in customs law with a professor who was also a Deputy Minister at that time. He dealt with the customs law of the European Union, and I was a young, teenage yet, corwinist who thought that Poland should not enter the European Union. We had a fight between these two elements in every class, but it wasn't like he was taking revenge on me, it was like he was arguing with me. I ended up getting this thing really good, because at least there was a lively discussion. And that's actually what freedom of speech is all about. One side will say that you should read Friedman, the free market is the most appropriate solution and there are two genders, and the other side will say that you have to read Marx, socialism is the most important, and gender is 56 or 58, depending on the situation. That's what it's all about. That's what we're trying to do (the bell) so we can argue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u199	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the art. 2, which provides that, after the entry into force of those provisions, decisions to suspend teachers in the performance of their duties previously undertaken will cease to be effective. This means that the state wants to enter very strongly into the autonomy of the university. This can be illustrated by such an example. If the Penal Code had been amended, all those who had a judgment under that code would suddenly have been voided. It seems, however, that this is too far-reaching interference into this power, into the independence that has taken place. Therefore, Minister, the question is: Why do you want to enter this independence of the university so badly? Why do you want to question the decisions of those bodies that have been taken in such a way as to ensure this independence? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u201	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! This bill is aimed at thinking. This law is aimed at something called the rationality of the education and education system in Poland, because at the head of the Ministry of Education and Higher Education is a fascism homophobic, an intolerant, irresponsible man, threatening in fact what is written in the article. 73 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, today the debate on the nuances contained in the Ministry's proposals is some surrealism. In fact, we should follow the lead of young people who are protesting under the Ministry of Education against Czarnek and his homophobia today. It is simply necessary to protest against such a person who really degrades Polish education, Polish teachers (The Bell) and teachers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u202	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Szejna, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u203	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the first question: What kind of beliefs, the worldview is to defend this law? Convince, the worldview of academic teachers, because certainly not those supported by science. They'll protect themselves. Lex Czarnek, called the amendment of the Law on Higher Education and Science, under the cloak of freedom of speech, religious and worldview or philosophical beliefs, is supposed to lead to the impunity of students of private beliefs and opinions of academic teachers related to PiS and Ordo Iuris; it is intended to allow you and obedient ideologists to unpunishedly present, like Prof. Budzyńska, the belief that contraception is abortion and anti-Semitic jokes are acceptable. The essence is to allow universities to present views supported by not scientific research, but fanatical or ignorant beliefs. Imagine that your academic teacher claims that homosexuality is a disease, virtues of a woman are more important than mathematics and foreign languages, the earth is flat, and the sun revolves around the Earth (the bell), as the Catholic Church said for centuries - and this will be considered a worldview. Is that what this is about? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Maximowicz, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Disciplinary Board of the Minister plays a key role in the draft law, commonly referred to as "freedom', in a specific court ignoring the autonomy of the university. That is why I am asking the Minister a question, asking kindly for a written reply, because there are several of them, and I would like to read the answer. Firstly, on the basis of which selection procedure - and was this done after consulting the home institutions or institutes - the Minister was presented for approval of candidates for the members of the disciplinary board? Did it happen that the only applicant was the minister's advisor, a well-known metaphysicist and current Rector of the Zamość Academy known for his speech on the virtues of the women? [[Applause]] Are there members of the committee who, at the time of their appointment, had unfinished disciplinary action at home institutions not for religious, ideological, philosophical reasons? Should it be established that the members of the committee have disciplinary proceedings or have been punished by universities, is it possible to appeal them from the composition of the committee? In the explanatory memorandum I state that I know (the bell) personally, directly three such persons. For these three people, one has current disciplinary proceedings, and the other has had to leave the university... Thank you very much. ...because of a breach of good repute. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u206	Mr President, time is up. Thank you. Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u207	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The main changes to this amendment are to ensure respect for freedom of speech, to ensure the possibility of expressing religious, worldview and philosophical beliefs at universities. At this point one should mention the situation that took place at the Jagiellonian University in Cracow, where Mrs Barbara Nowak, a Małopolska curator of education, wrongly and offensively referred to the students, claiming that the Jagiellonian University turns into a social agency. As if that were not enough, Minister Czarnek commented on this, claiming that your probation officer was doing his duties exemplaryly. I would therefore like to ask whether this is not contrary to what we are debating here today. How can young people have freedom of speech when it is pointed at every step of the way? How are they supposed to feel safe, expressing their views, such as LGBT people, when you say they're not normal people or healthy people? [[♪ The bell ♪]] So is this amendment just empty words? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u208	Thank you very much. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Let's ask what kind of freedom you want to defend: freedom for the anti-scientific voices of professors who spread anti-vaccine propaganda; freedom to preach nonsense that by giving the child to a nursery, his mother is doing him harm, as one of the professors at the University of Silesia, in which Minister Jarosław Gowin stood up; freedom to deny the theory of evolution; freedom to preach that children born through in vitro have furrows on their foreheads; freedom to deny the Holocaust. Because this bill is a protective umbrella that you want to spread over people who translate ideology over science and treat the scientific cathedral like pulpit. You want to let this become more important so that scientists can deny scientific knowledge and express their beliefs in contradiction with it. And support them in this will be who? Commission appointed by Minister Czarnek. That's not how science is done, and that's not how scientists are supported. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The composition of your mysterious disciplinary commission in front of the Minister has already been asked by Professor Maximowicz, and I will ask another question: Why do you choose to deal with complaints about the resolution of this mysterious committee? the Court of Appeal in Warsaw? Why is this not a court of appeal relevant locally to the university concerned? It is well known that there is a very large burden on the Court of Appeals in Warsaw, and it is also well known that if someone appeals against the ruling of this commission, he will have to arrive from the other end of Poland to this Warsaw. And another question: Why do you not provide for a second instance in the appeal path, i.e. why does the bill you are designing exclude the cassation path from legal proceedings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u213	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The package will be about freedom simply. We need full freedom at all universities. The academic freedom package introduces full freedom at all universities in Poland. We will be in Europe to the highest degree of scientific freedom that can be imagined. These are just selected quotes from Minister Czarnek's media statements. Freedom - the Minister's favourite word. And how does that actually apply to your minister's actions? Reducing the autonomy of universities, their authorities, scientific staff, setting up a committee to punish academic staff for their lack of obedience to the ideas of the Minister of Education and Science, and defending those who will preach absurd thesis imposed, erasing from history cards uncomfortable for the PiS topics, choosing mainly Catholic universities as those who can educate ethics - and further - an announcement that in 2 years ethics will be a mandatory subject. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u214	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have another amendment to the law - the Law on Higher Education and Science. According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill concerns and is intended to guarantee the freedom of the university members to express their thoughts and words. But is that true? We have here the impression, after this discussion today, that this is rather a restriction on the autonomy of the university. The question to the Minister: What really is the purpose of the changes being made? Because I'm sure it's not the release of thought and freedom of speech at universities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u216	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my opinion, the bill is absurd, it is a legal bubel and the destruction of Polish science. Minister Czarnek dreams of manually controlling higher education. This bill is unacceptable. Students want to learn in non-political universities, in good conditions and independent schools. Why are you centralizing universities in Poland? Is that supposed to be freedom in your interpretation? Why should disciplinary matters be settled outside the university? This is a misunderstanding to me. Colleges are doing great on their own. Academic environments have negatively assessed the interference in university autonomy. I wanted to ask: Were there extensive consultations on this law? You still have time to get out of this ridiculous idea. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u218	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u219	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Academic teachers must not be restricted either by political parties or by religious unions in the creation of academic discussions in places for this purpose and during discussion panels. However, the question remains: Is it appropriate for a lecturer to preach his political views and agitate students during lectures? Is the collection of signatures on pre-election letters of support still a right to freedom of expression, or is it a violation of that right? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u220	Thank you. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u221	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Education today presents its flagship project, a bill that is supposed to favour lecturers who are supposed to indoctrinate and chastise those who want to teach about equality and respect for another person. This is ridiculous. Of course, in the bill we read about all religious, worldview or philosophical beliefs, but we know well that Minister Czarnek wants to protect right-wing fanatics and haters even more. Minister! Why do you agree to the harassment of students and students for expressing support for the Women's Strike? Why do you first take rights away from LGBT+ people, and now you want such discrimination to be the basis for teaching? Thousands of young people suffer every day in schools where they are subjected to ideological indoctrination by the government, and under the pretext of protection, freedom wonders how to make them feel even worse. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Young people have no delusions and are waiting for only one thing, the date of the resignation of Minister Czarnek. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u222	Thank you. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club. You're welcome. There isn't. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u223	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Security Committee. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The school in the 19th century was to prepare for life in the world of that time and raise a criminal man. The school in the 21st century should respond to the current challenges. I dream of a school where a young man leaves with a driver's license and good physical fitness to learn how to swim or to ride a bicycle safely. I want the school to teach you how to buy or sell a car, an apartment, how to save money, if it starts to pay off again, or to take credit so that you don't fall into a debt spiral later, so that it gives you the basis for economics, prepares you to get a good job, so that you can find a graduate in the tax system. I dream of a school that releases a modern, courageous citizen who says what he thinks is ecologically sensitive, has respect for minorities, knows how important civil society, the rule of law and democracy are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does this reform of yours introduce at least one... Thank you very much. ...from these demands? No, because then you wouldn't have won... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...no more choices. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u224	Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I've been told twice today that I was operating in the previous system. True, but a man honest in one system or another is just honest, so I'm not afraid of that. On the other hand, I return to this system because I have seen many overzealous companions who wanted every part of public life to take over by law, who appointed special committees to destroy people who sent police on people, young people who thought differently. And in the end, they actually brought out the banner. I'm even glad you're going this way because you're going exactly the same way. You want to own every piece of public life by regulating it by law. I think this is going to end the same way as before, which means people are going to help you get your banner out, because this road is wrong. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u226	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is really only one reason why we need to discuss this ridiculous project here. Well, the minister who wants this project is simply a homophobic and ignorant scientist. His public statements are simply laughing at children in glass corridors, because if you don't laugh at someone who has no idea how many years homo sapiens have lived. And now just Minister Czarnek feels so alone in this ridiculousness that he decided to limit the autonomy of the university so that now it is possible to officially deny science, reason or scientific fact, so that first of all it is possible to officially express all homophobic views under the banner of education and science. And we are simply to agree to the opening of the university doors, to restrict their autonomy, so that Minister Czarnek can surround himself in Poland with people on his own intellectual level. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u228	Mrs Anita Sowińska, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u229	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Universities are set up to spread knowledge based on facts. There have been questions about the purpose of this bill. He's only one. It is an opportunity to spread disinformation and fake news. This bill is intended to cause conflicts. This is a dance on a line that can lead to polexit as a result. It's all connected together. Therefore, I have questions to the Minister: Whose business do you represent? What's a university supposed to do, whose academics are spreading disinformation about climate change, whose science worker, physicist, has lost his mind or is bribed, these things happen, and it's spreading misinformation about the plane crash? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's he gonna do? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left. There isn't. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In a moment, October 1st, the beginning of the academic year. You could say that the Ministry wants to start this academic year with quite a hug. It is clear to all of us that there is no freedom, because this is a contradiction, Minister Czarnek, this is a contradiction with freedom of opinion, with modern views, with the teaching of the 21st century. I understand we probably won't get an answer from the Minister, why we judge this bill, this project. It's obvious. But I would like to ask what is the position of the Ministry, because this is probably a very important thing, in relation to the Main Council of Science and Higher Education, the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, the Conference of Rectors of Polish Universities and the Academy of Young Scientists. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. They've all expressed themselves negatively. Does this mean that Minister Czarnek is right, and those entities I mentioned are wrong? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u233	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Free school - yes, indoctrinated school - no. Changes in laws on matters such as higher education are introduced only to take away the autonomy of higher education institutions. You have a policy to limit academic teachers to their decision-making, and the rectors against good rules, manners, anything in the past, to disenfranchise them. Such practice will make universities in Poland politically subordinate to PiS. This is not a reform. This is a deformity of higher education that you're introducing to have a greater impact on what's going on at universities. The problem is, you don't want to change for good, you just do everything you can to make sure that the content that doesn't suit you doesn't appear there. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u234	Thank you very much. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In another project prepared by the government and Minister Czarnka, you discipline teachers, threatening them with sanctions for - and I quote - exceeding powers or failing to fulfil their duties, giving the curators the opportunity to punish teachers for anything they can think of. And that's all under threat of imprisonment for up to three years. In turn, in today's bill you open the door to preaching views that have no reflection in science, thus causing harm to the new generations of Poles and Poles. Thus, Minister Czarnek's advisor, proclaiming that atheists are not fit for education, becomes the rector of the Zamoj Academy, the Małopolska curator of education calls the Jagiellonian University a social agency, and the minister calls it all the preaching of private views. And the question is, do you think universities are more important than education or indoctrination? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. Will it be possible to preach private ideas that have no relationship with science to prepare students for their chosen profession? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, this is a real assassination attempt on the autonomy of the university. Arthur Schopenhauer always had reservations about academic teachers, that they should be involved in science, not didactics, because they were either doing one or the other. If they're didactics, they don't do very well with scientific research, and if they're involved in science alone, they're successful. You, on the other hand, cross these two levels in which Schopenhauer argued with the professorship in his time, among others. For example, with Hegle, and you decide to allow an ideological level that has nothing to do with scientific research, you want to justify it, what's more, to protect it by the ministerial commission. And Schopenhauer said this: My philosophy does not give comfort. People prefer to hear that everything is okay and that everything is well invented by the Lord God. If so, go to the church (the bell) and leave the philosophers alone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u238	Okay, thank you very much. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me quote a quote: Let's stop listening to these idiots about human rights. These people are not equal to normal people. These are the words of the then Mr Przemysław Czarnek, who said on the government television on 13 June 2020. The next day I applied to the rector of the Catholic University of Lublin for disciplinary action against the Member. A year later, the Sejm is influenced by a bill designed to prevent such proceedings, which is intended to allow all fanatics such as Przemysław Czarnek to insult and humiliate other people. Moreover, it is intended to enable a man who is to teach students, a lecturer to speak e.g. That the Earth is flat because that's his world view. This is what Polish science will look like in a moment, Polish universities (The Bell) under the rule of this law and under the government of Minister Przemysław Czarnek. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u240	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Calling this project a package of academic freedom is a farce and has as much to do with the truth as Minister Czarnek's statement that people have lived on Earth for billions of years. The greatest threat to freedom, not just academic freedom, is, Minister, your lies and covering up these lies by changing the meaning of words. Unfortunately, this change in the meaning of the words was included by the rapporteur, saying that the academic community only made some comments on the project. No, sir, they criticized him. Professor Roman Cieślak of Krasp said, "Don't interfere with the autonomy of the university. This is a cry for you to leave an area of freedom that is essential to the functioning of science. And Prof. Zbigniew Marciniak (The Bell), President of the General Council of Science and Higher Education, said that this bill will probably pass, but he regrets because he thinks that at all... Thank you very much. ...shouldn't exist, those incidents that were the basis, too. That's the truth, and you guys are... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u242	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u243	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, How will Minister Czarnek, Minister Bernacki, say that the Earth is flat, will you make such a bill that the Earth is flat? After all, you are in conflict with this law. Minister Ziobro is in conflict with the justice system. Minister Czarnek wants to match him and causes conflict with the staff of science and education. Yet the primary principle and responsibility of the university in the civilization of knowledge, i.e. in conditions of formation of a society in which knowledge plays a key role, is concern for society rather than for its friends. It is nepotism of the Black and the PiS. I would like to say, Minister, that you should take care of the support of science. After all, at the University of Gdańsk there are studies (The Bell) that can solve the problem of Alzheimer's. That's what you do, not stupid stuff like that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u245	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Freedom of expression, freedom of expression is one of the fundamental constitutional guarantees and it seems that it should apply primarily to the academic community. Academic teachers, who have not only great knowledge but also life experience, have the right, even the obligation, to present their point of view, even if it is not accepted by someone. Freedom of expression, on the other hand, has its limits. She ends up where the freedom of another man begins, where his rights begin, respect for him. That is why disciplinary proceedings should remain in schools and not be transferred to the level of the ministry. The academic community will best solve these problems. The power given by society - even by the minister - is no better than the knowledge that academics have. I would very much ask you to look at the solutions you are proposing today and remember that someday you will stop ruling and that someone else will sit in these benches. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u246	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! There's been a lot of questions here. They asked why this bill, who it serves and why. Of course, even though the whole academic community has given it a negative opinion, Minister Czarnek and the government are supporting, they are pushing for a project to bring something important - unlimited authority over universities, academics and students. The Commission, which will be set up in the Ministry, will serve the Minister. The revision of the budget, which we have talked about so much today, does not provide any money for research for universities. Although we are in the European Union, the level of our research expenditure is very low. Why didn't the minister lean on it and make sure our universities had more money? Unless belief in superstition solves problems. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u248	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As it happens, you have to look at what the PiS government is doing in the context of what the PiS government is doing. If this government questions freedom of expression, if it questions democracy, if it questions the rule of law, then when its representative comes out and says: let us take care of academic freedom, then we treat it as an oxymoron, we read it as: let us take care of academic madness, let us take care of everything that will support the justification of the sausage documentation, not scientific documentation. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 and Article 3 2 it is stated that all disciplinary proceedings will be lifted. Please inform me in writing what categories of disciplinary proceedings are currently being conducted and what positions are presented against them by the Senate of individual universities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u251	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! How much resentment you must have due to a lack of trust in higher education institutions to undermine their autonomy guaranteed in the article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 5 Constitutions. The autonomy of universities, which operates all over the world, gives great freedom to every university that is its employees. Investigating the truth is guaranteed when everyone in their space can express their views. This expression of views and this area of freedom are primarily guaranteed by university staff who have a constitutional right to university autonomy. You're trying to undermine it. In this law, you want to cancel any disciplinary penalties that have been imposed in matters relating to religious, worldview or philosophical beliefs. Do you want to be some kind of hood court? [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no permission to do that, Minister. The autonomy of the university, remember, is a sacred thing for every professor and every person. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u252	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk, the Civic Coalition. There isn't. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science of Minister Włodzimierz Bernacki to answer his questions. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have such a fundamental doubt after what I have heard during this debate. It's not just about presented positions of clubs and circles, it's about questions. I have the impression that a large number of people who have read, even if they have read - actually these people have this document - this draft amendment of the law, have read it without a basic understanding of the content that is contained in this document. That's one thing. Secondly, a very important and important issue that needs to be said at the beginning of my speech is that I have not met such a number of speeches, invectives, allegations regarding what the Ministry of Education and Science has prepared in the form of so-called. the freedom package. I am really amazed and surprised because I am not - as was pointed out here or accused at the committee meeting - a proponent of a pessimistic view of the nature of man or a proponent of moral pessimism. No, it's the other way around. I assume that you are all looking with great enthusiasm at what we call university autonomy, and with great attachment you stand by what we call freedom - what I am convinced of - but perhaps for reasons of one or another, but mostly it seems that - this is my private - ideological opinion. You do not want to see a problem and a phenomenon that is present at Polish universities, Polish universities and universities. Please bear in mind that we are talking here about a freedom package that will apply not only to universities and schools with research status, but also to those that carry out ordinary teaching activities at the level of first degree studies. Firstly, I would like to clarify that the definition of freedom, which is an important and important definition from the point of view of this amendment, is freedom defined once by liberals, still in the 19th century, which is classic - in the sense of Isaiah Berlin - freedom in a negative sense. So it is about creating boundaries of law, extending far-reaching boundaries that allow for freedom of expression. Freedom of expression and freedom of expression in the case of a publicist, freedom of expression and expression in the case of a politician is linked with responsibility for the words spoken. We know there's a rule committee, we know there's an ethics committee, we know there's civil liability. or even criminal in connection with what we say. As far as the university is concerned, as far as research institutes are concerned, let us remember that freedom here is something important and fundamental and fundamental. First of all, the choice of the subject of the study, secondly, the choice of the method or methodology of research leading to scientific inquiry, to carry out scientific research. This freedom package guarantees every scientist that, on the basis of a methodology appropriate to discipline or this research area... the researcher has the right to choose this methodology. I talked about this at the committee meeting, and I'm gonna say it again. When it comes to social sciences and humanities, including legal sciences, it is proven, and in scientific terms, that in every scientific procedure is what we call value. Thus, value is inevitable at every stage of scientific activity. Thus, by introducing a provision saying that no one, because of their system of values, has a system of religious or philosophical beliefs, can bear responsibility for this, we recognize that everyone has the right to carry out scientific research in accordance with his own philosophical or religious view. Ladies and gentlemen, since you are so eager to refer to the liberals - if you do not mention Wolter's name - please remember that the freedom package gives everyone freedom of expression. It gives it to all those who are in the area of the academic community, because this law speaks very clearly about academic space and freedom of participation and requires the rector to support such initiatives, conduct debates. That's one thing. So we are not dealing in this law with any narrowing down what we call freedom, freedom in this field of research. Of course, it is also worth appealing to various studies related to methodological issues or to the metascience sphere. Everywhere it is emphasized that the basis for the development of science and reaching the truth in all teachings - not only those I have spoken of: humanistic, social or other, but also strict - is freedom, is also what we call revolution. The name of Copernicus was mentioned, but please also remember these moments very important and important, such as the concept of classical dynamics, and later also what is related to classical mechanics or later quantum mechanics. These are really revolutions. Thomas Kuhn wrote that the foundation of scientific development is the scientific revolution. Hence, it is completely unclear to me why these ideas related to allegations which are so slanderously directed at the address of either the Ministry of Education and Science or Minister Czarnek. Ladies and gentlemen! As for this committee - because it also appeared in many questions - I would like to make you aware that it already exists, always existed and was treated as an appeal institution, so everyone had the right to appeal against these resolutions or those decisions that took place at university level. This amendment therefore does not introduce a new committee. If this committee is here, it's a legal solution for her. What is more, I repeat once again: she performs functions only and only appeals. Hence the question of why there is no cassation action here and why this is about the Court of Appeal in Warsaw. Because this is already concrete in the current law and the Ministry did not want to make any changes here. So you might ask: What is the freedom package for then, so it guarantees freedom in all dimensions? Well, the point is, ladies and gentlemen, that every teaching worker should be able to exercise his constitutional rights... [[College.]] ...and thus pursue himself not only in the scientific dimension or at the university, but also should have the right to be active in public space. And here Mr Girzynski rightly pointed to the case of Mr Polak. I know more of these cases. Let me remind you that two professors are already dead, and they have met with a very negative action from their universities. It is about Professor Lech Morawski and later - doctoral student Prof. Moravian, as well as my former PhD student's doubts, who wondered if she had a chance to defend her PhD in a situation where I am a Member of Law and Justice. [[Defend? Defend?]] This is Professor Zybertovich's situation, this is the case Professor Aleksander Nalaskowski, this is the case of Justyn Piskorski, this is the case Professor Paweł Bortkiewicz. So, ladies and gentlemen, where is this coming from? I am pleased to hear from Mr Drink and Mr Maximovich. Perhaps they should also point to a problem and a problem which is very important and important for the academic community, and not yet recognized, at least for the time being, by the opposition parliamentarians. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this law, or law 2.0, has given an incredibly broad competence, a great power to the rector of the university. It is also about the possibility to act with regard to people with opinions or positions or methodological concepts. This often ended with disciplinary proceedings and the rector decided that one person or another should be suspended, that is, just suspend. This is why we need to do so. Finally, it is also very important, and about what is related to Polish universities or universities. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a certain climate and a certain specificity not only of the Polish university or the Polish university, but also of the specifics specific to universities in general in Europe, as well as the United States. This phenomenon is well described in the literature, because on the one hand it is about Raymond Aron and his Opium of intellectuals - this opium for intellectuals according to the French liberal is Marxism - and on the other hand it is about Allan Bloom's book. A closed mind showing the tyranny of political correctness at American universities. This is a real phenomenon. Therefore, if one of you asks why, why this freedom package, I answer that precisely because this tyranny of political correctness is also a phenomenon occurring at Polish universities and Polish universities. Therefore, this initiative is aimed at ensuring that everyone, regardless of whether they are in the mainstream of opinions and methodologies that are now dominant, whether they are located there or not, has the right not only to carry out his or her duties, to conduct scientific activities, but also to have constitutional rights, which are political rights, so that I personally do not have to worry about my future as a scientific worker... This may be the least of my concerns, because, in fact, I am 61 years old and I am in a protective period. Perhaps there are reasons why my agreement could be terminated. In addition, there were some cases before the Act was in force, in the years before 2015. I mean the situation in which every speech I made, whether on Television Trwam or on Radio Maryja, ended with a call to the rug precisely because I disgraced the good name of the university. I will remind you of the professors who joined the team appointed by Marshal Kuchciński, lawyers in the field of constitutional law, they all had problems either way. So we don't want that kind of situation, which is why this freedom package. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is also very important information that the House of Commons is currently working on an equivalent bill guaranteeing freedom (the Bell) and freedom to conduct scientific research and not to bear any responsibility for this. So it is not only Poland, not only the United States, but also the United Kingdom. Great Britain is the place where such a law is actually processed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u254	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed... We're a 1.5-hour delay, so please... I understand, sir. Rapporteur: Mr Kazimierz Moskal. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There have been many questions, and I will not refer to them, because I should refer briefly, but there was a direct complaint to me as rapporteur. Indeed, I had a problem, 54 pages of the report, and I was wondering how much I should have presented every Member or every participant in the discussion at the committee meeting. Very generally, I just said that there were positive and negative voices among parliamentarians, without getting involved in various people's statements. But as I said about certain corporations associated with universities, I've made it very clear... I didn't say they were criticizing, I said there were critical remarks. We can really reflect on the meaning of the words, but my goal was not to manipulate or to administer false words in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u256	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the governmental draft law amending the Law on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes (prints No 1454 and 1551). I kindly ask Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u257	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the report of the joint committees, i.e. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on a governmental bill amending the Law on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes, print No 1454. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 4 August 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading. The Joint Committees, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 14 September 2021, ask the High Sejm to approve the attached draft Print Act No 1454. The aim of this project is to implement European Union law. In addition to the changes resulting from the need to supplement the implementation of the Directive, the draft also includes a number of proposals for amendments related to the need to adapt the Act to the current regulations contained in the Law of 20 July 2018 - Law on Higher Education and Science. The proposed amendments aim primarily at the humanitarian treatment and improvement of the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes, as well as at improving the functioning of the regulatory system for the use of animals for those purposes, including the process of obtaining an entry in the register of breeders, suppliers and users, hereinafter referred to as "the register." As a result of the first reading of the Joint Committees, the committees adopted two amendments to Law and Justice and rejected the 23 amendments of the Civic Platform to this draft law. [[The Civic Coalition.]] Coalition, yes, excuse me. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u258	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sławomir Skwarek will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u259	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law amending the Law on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes, prints 1454 and 1551. The project on which the joint committees were working is an amendment to the Law of 15 January 2015 on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes. The need to adopt this law is due to the initiation by the European Commission of formal proceedings against Poland in relation to the way in which the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2010 on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes are transposed into national law. It is possible to remedy the shortcomings that have been identified by amending this law. The draft amendment also takes into account the need to adapt the Law to the regulations contained in the Law of 20 July 2018 - Law on Higher Education and Science, as well as to the conditions and social needs indicated in the justification. As the name of the amended law itself indicates, its purpose is to protect animals used for scientific purposes. Although the wording itself of the animal used is now pejorative, the assumptions accompanying the legislative work focus not only on clarifying the rules in a formal way, one which will not raise any question of interpretation, but above all on eliminating the various types of abuse and problems identified, among others. under the control of the Supreme Audit Chamber. We are all aware that we are obliged to provide the right conditions for the existence of animals. We meet with voices saying that man should not use nature in this way. The word "used," often mistakenly associated with abuse or other cruelty, naturally causes outrage. However, let us remember that the huge scientific, research progress that we observe on a daily basis is possible, among others. by the participation of animals. I will quote the catechism of the Catholic Church: The animals, as well as plants and inanimate beings, are by nature destined for the benefit of the common humanity in the past, now and in the future. The use of natural, plant and animal resources in the world cannot be separated from respect for moral requirements. The planned changes aim to ensure that methods are used more effectively to achieve the objectives, experience without the use of animals, reduce to a minimum the number of animals used in the procedures, improve breeding, maintenance, care and procedures so as to eliminate or minimise potential pain, suffering, districtes or permanent damage to the organism. This law is a continuous improvement of the so-called. 3R principle contained in three words: replacement, limitation, improvement. The Law and Justice Club, given that the proposed amendments to the law have been positively assessed by the joint committees, will vote in favour of this law. However, after the discussion and following many requests, suggestions, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I submit to your Marshal an amendment to the bill along with their justification. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u260	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you for the correction. Ms Małgorzata Tracz will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A particular role of the State should be to reduce suffering and concern for the welfare of laboratory animals. The mere fact of using animals for research and testing raises moral doubts in each of us. Laboratory animals deserve special protection because their health and life are still sacrificed to protect the health and life of us humans. This was also the case for all four vaccines at the COVID approved in the European Union, which we have all been waiting for. Therefore, the amendment to the Law on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes that we are discussing today is so important and important. This law was adopted in the framework of the transposition into Polish law of the provisions of the EU directive. A directive aimed at protecting laboratory animals whose welfare is considered to be a Community value. Directive according to which Article. 2 As Poland, we can ensure in our almost more extensive and rigorous protection of animals than is the case under its rules. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Education and Science has included in the amendment changes which introduce completely the opposite, radically reducing and reducing the protection of laboratory animals in Poland. This is about two changes that are fundamental to the constitutional rights of citizens and citizens to public information and to public participation in administrative proceedings. It's about adding a new article. 38a, which in fact introduces the secrecy of the work of ethical committees, public authorities, and thus the secrecy of animal experiments in a way that violates the constitution. It is also about changing the sound of the article. 40, which will prevent social organisations from taking part in matters relating to the authorisation of experience, regardless of whether such participation is justified by social objectives and social interests. These two amendments have nothing to do with the provisions of the directive and are the author's idea of the Ministry of Education. An idea where you can see lobbying at first glance, which took place at the stage of drafting the bill. This lobbying can also be seen in the justification for these changes. This is a contemptible and insulting tone towards non-governmental organisations involved in animal protection. The tone is diametrically different from that described by the necessary changes resulting from the need for transposition of the Directive. It's like it's a completely different person writing it. As Greens and the Civic Coalition, we cannot allow the constitutional rights of Poles and Poles to be restricted once again. We cannot allow fundamental reductions in standards for the protection of laboratory animals in Poland. That's why I'm filing a motion for your marshal to reject a government bill amending the Law on the Protection of Animals Used for Scientific or Educational Purposes. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Thank you very much. That is not all, because, as Members and Members, we should make every effort to get animal research into history as soon as possible. As Poland and the European Union, we should strive to further reduce experiments on animals, replace them with new innovative research methods as soon as possible and present a clear strategy to move away from experiments. To this end, it is necessary to cooperate with all actors involved in non-animal research, with scientific communities and with entrepreneurs investing in such research. Therefore, as Greens, the Civic Coalition makes 24 amendments, which according to Article. 2 Directives provide wider and more stringent protection for laboratory animals in Poland. I hope that together we will take another step forward in order to better protect laboratory animals, not four steps backwards, this protection radically restrictive. I would like to ask Members and Members to sit on the committee at noon. 19, to support these complex amendments developed together with the social side, which will strengthen the protection of animals. Let us also remove the proposed provisions that conceal proceedings before ethical committees and exclude the social side from them. Together, let us provide better protection for laboratory animals, in which (the bell) as a human being we owe in the name of progress. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u262	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Anita Sowińska, on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u263	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a riddle for you. Who said that? Humanitarian treatment of animals, relief from suffering where it is unnecessary, is neither right-wing nor left-wing, is simply part of the canon of humanity. If you don't figure it out, I'll give you a hint. [[Voice from the room: We figured it out.]] Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in 2020. Great. One more riddle. As far as the ban on fur animals in Poland is concerned, this is it. above all, the question of the attitude towards animals. The question, you might say, of hearts. Animal hearts, pity on animals. Every decent man should have something like that in himself. Who said that? [[Voice from the room: More important.]] Great. Jarosław Kaczyński in 2018 Those two gentlemen cheated. They fooled citizens and citizens and hid like laboratory mice. They're scared and pretend they're not here. Also other Members on the right side of Parliament not so long ago spoke about love for animals, about their humanitarian treatment. It ended with empty words and sweet pictures. You lied to us. Today this law worsens the condition of animals in Poland, this time animals used for scientific research. Annually, some 150,000 experiments are subjected to experiments in Poland. animals of which approximately 30% is subjected to severe, or most drastic procedures. The largest part are rodents and fish, but experience is also used. Chickens, pigs, cats and rabbits. At present, local ethics committees subject to the national ethics committee are giving their consent to carry out such an experiment. The local committees are composed of representatives of scientific institutions, as well as a lawyer, an ethicsist and a member of a social organisation. It is they who may challenge consents that are not in accordance with the rules or have no significant value. NGOs have used this path in a very thoughtful and substantive way, as evidenced by the fact that most appeals were recognised by the national ethics committee. So why are you tearing down something that works well? What is the purpose of keeping scientists' work from public opinion? To hide unnecessary and simply stupid experiences. It often happens that substances are tested, e.g. medicines, juices or cosmetics that have already been tested on animals many times. Painful procedures are repeated from the beginning because someone wants to do another science title. The Left amends this proposal and will also vote in favour of amendments prepared by other opposition clubs and social organisations. If these amendments are not accepted, we will vote against the law because it worsens the condition of animals in Poland. I appeal to Prime Minister Morawiecki and Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński, as well as other Members and Members to vote in favour of amendments to this law. This vote will be a test of whether your declarations of love for animals are worth something. However, this law shows a broader context for the protection of animal rights in Poland. For years, nothing has changed in this case. I think it's time we set a big line over an animal five. Many mistakes have been made with this bill. We should think about what we can really do for animal rights in Parliament, because there are issues that do not cause controversy and have social support, for example. banning the use of animals in circuses or ensuring better conditions for dogs and cats in animal shelters. This can be done today with a little good will. There is also the issue of the ban on animal breeding for fur. Most societies support this, and nothing changes in this matter. The Polish Sejm lacks a normal, reliable debate on animal rights, such as the one held two weeks ago in the Senate. It was the day of a good and substantive discussion, the result of which was concrete solutions. I invite you to listen to these speeches, among others. Mr. Andrzej Elżanowski's speech. Thank you. I will also conclude my speech with a quote: "The relevance to animals is an element of culture. The higher it is, the more humane and better it is. Thank you, Member. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. This is also a quote from Mr Jarosław Kaczyński's statement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u264	Madam, time is up, thank you. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u265	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes, prints No 1454 and 1551. This proposal aims to transpose into national law the provisions of Directive 2010/63/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2010 on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. The proposed amendments aim to complement the existing solutions and to clarify the rules that raise doubts about interpretation and create difficulties in applying the law. Such changes must also be made due to the results of the audit carried out by the Supreme Audit Chamber in March 2017. The proposed amendments aim to improve the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes. They are also to check the functioning of the regulatory system for the use of animals for those purposes, including the process of obtaining an entry in the register of breeders, suppliers and users and obtaining consent to carry out experiments on animals. The most important solutions are, as the applicants present, the extension of the scope of the 3R principle, which aims to protect animals used for scientific or educational purposes, in order to ensure more effectively the use of methods that enable the achievement of the objectives of the experiment without the use of animals, to reduce to a minimum the number of animals used in procedures without prejudice to the purposes of those procedures, to improve the breeding, maintenance, care and methods used in procedures so that animals are eliminated or reduced to a minimum of potential pain, suffering, districting or permanent damage to the organism. The Act is intended to ensure that Polish teams are active in the field. animal welfare has implemented the obligation to inform staff of current technical and scientific developments related to the application of the 3R principle and to provide advice on the socialisation of animals for adoption. It is also intended to require breeders, suppliers and users to establish a programme for finding a new home, or in the case of wild animals, a rehabilitation programme by restoring them to a natural habitat. It is also intended to amend the definition of breeder in order to allow the entry in the register of livestock farmers used in experiments, including livestock keepers used in procedures, to clarify the rules governing exceptions to the application of anaesthetics and painkillers, to supplement the rules laying down the conditions for handling animals after being used in procedures, to introduce the possibility of returning the livestock to a place of farming or farming, to ensure that these procedures are not carried out on animals if a different method or testing strategy is legally recognised in the Union to achieve appropriate results. So many theories. However, as far as practice is concerned, of course you are tampering with this change. Why keep non-governmental organizations out of the loop, NGOs? I don't think that's classified information. As far as patents are concerned, there are appropriate legal regulations. As for this transparency, I don't think there's anything to hide. Of course, I would also like us to have a common sense debate in this Chamber, because what else is the use of animals in laboratories, what else is breeding and breeding animals. After all, we must also consider the overriding objective of human health and life. Of course, where we can limit this research, let us limit it, let us look for innovative methods, good solutions to limit it to the maximum. However, as we had in the case of COVID, many people did not want to inoculate themselves because they said: untested, too short functioning (the bell), so we think about it... Of course, these amendments, which will be common sense, we will support... Thank you. ...then if they're not included at all, we won't vote for this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u266	Thank you very much. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u267	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The measure of our humanity is our attitude toward animals. This is a sentence that we repeat many times, but that's just the way it is. And there is no doubt that a project in this shape is not likely to help animals, even harm them. It will harm not only animals but also non-governmental organisations and their effectiveness. It will harm organizations that are the voice of those beings who feel suffering, but can no longer speak. It is precisely for this reason that it cuts non-governmental organisations from access to public information, from effectiveness in these proceedings before committees, that is a really bad law and amendments that have been tabled to it, that Poland 2050 will of course fully support. Ladies and gentlemen! 80% Poles and Poles are in favour of going away from animal testing - these are the results of the study last year. In the European Union, more and more people are talking about moving away from these tests to minimise the suffering of animals. But as long as scientific progress needs these experiments - because it still needs and let us be aware - we should minimize their pain, their fear and care for their well-being. For this purpose, appropriate civil control is necessary. But citizen control unfortunately PiS is afraid and cuts it off wherever it can, because it's not just a case of this bill. This is also a wider phenomenon. The organisation's participation in the control of hunting, the location of burdensome investments, the situation in fur farms, the surveillance of what is happening in forests, and the logging of state forests - in all these areas of the PiS recently tried to hinder social control organizations. We should not allow this especially in such a sensitive area where, as I said, 80% Poles would like to limit animal testing. Government arguments in this case are also somewhat absurd, as it is pointed out that the control of non-governmental organisations must be reduced due to the increasing number of organisations involved in the proceedings. Meanwhile, in 2020 these proceedings were 621, and the share - and this is what is supposed to be increasing - is 47. That's about 7%. Ladies and gentlemen! Look, here's the chart. In this graph we see that this is the number of proceedings - these blue posts. And the orange ones-- do you see them anywhere? It's very hard to see. It is precisely because NGOs have hardly yet taken part in this process. And you want to limit that? It doesn't make any sense. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland 2050 will not support this law without the support of the amendments which have been tabled to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u268	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, on behalf of the Confederate Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed amendment of the law is basically another edition of the legislative diarrhea straight from the European Union. I was quite serious about whether we should not reject this in principle as a Confederation at all. However, there were also many new facts at the meeting. The fact that we have to pay attention to is that unfortunately there is some sloppyness under this law, constant sloppyness in government legislation. The Legislative Office stated that it would be better to write a new law, because we are interfering here in 50 of 70 articles, i.e. more than half of the law itself. Yeah, well, let's cut to the chase. I fully agree that animals must be treated in a decent way because they are important to us, but we cannot interfere with the hierarchy of values and we cannot take bambinism seriously. Ladies and gentlemen! There was also hysteria at the committee meeting, and the extremely left-wing position of the Civic Coalition emerged. This caused me to reflect on whether or not he could support this law or at least not to hold back. Not from now on we know that if you don't know what's going on, it could be money, and some of the environments have made themselves a very profitable business to say that you're a pro-ecological person, and in practice the welfare of animals is in the last place. This bill assumes among others. the responsibility of the local ethics committees to issue these consents. Perhaps thanks to the fact that environmental organisations will not have access to them - and we can often talk here about pseudoecologists or some fancy dress-up inspectors - they will work more efficiently, although of course I have some doubts. A positive direction is the fact that there is an obligation to establish adoption programmes for pets, to re-adjust wild animals to live in their environment or breeding animals to their place of farming. [[But it's not about that.]] Yeah, it's in that bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! But let us remember that you have already given way to extreme organizations that turn order upside down a few times. Last year you gave in to the bambinists and agreed, among others. for an animal five. That's why we're gonna be looking at what legislation is gonna look like, what the committee's gonna look like, or isn't it gonna happen that once again breeders or people who do research aren't gonna be cheated because last year you spit in the face of farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u270	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. Ms Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u271	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On 16 September this year, the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling on the European Commission to ban experimentation and animal testing. 667 MEPs voted. Only four were against it. About 10 million animals are used annually for experience. According to the report from the European Commission, 12 million animals were bred and killed in 2017, without using them for the purposes of experience and research, but at the same time not giving them a chance to live. The European Parliament wants alternative research methods to be introduced as soon as possible without using animals. Meanwhile, what does Poland do? Poland wants to keep the tests secret, and the Ministry of Education also wants to take away the right of social organizations to participate in the process of issuing consent to experience. What is the reason why Poland (The Bell) is going in its legal solutions in the opposite direction than the countries of the European Union? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u272	Thank you, Member. Mrs Katarzyna Maria Piekarska on behalf of the Civic Coalition movement. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u273	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In the 1990s, it was entered in the Animal Protection Act that an animal as a being capable of suffering is not a thing. It seems to me that today, after these twenty-six years, in another law, but also concerning animals, it is not appropriate to make the welfare of animals worse. If we introduce this law in such a way, without amendments, it will be possible to carry out many experiences on animals, experiences completely unnecessary, which have nothing to do with science and have nothing to do with science. It just can't be. Don't spoil what works well. The audit was working well, the appeal from local committees to national committees worked well. Just this country. Don't spoil it. Article 1 is also repealed. 16, Article is added. 16a. This change will make it more optional when it comes to killing animals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which is why, finally, referring to the words of the classic who was already quoted here today, I would like to say that I hope... Thank you. ...that there will be good people in this room to vote on the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u274	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2015, a mechanism for more effective protection of laboratory animals was introduced into the current law. This protection was guaranteed, among others. the participation of pro-animal organisations in animal testing procedures. This law provides for the elimination of this mechanism and the complete secrecy of animal experiments. No one will be able to control the number of animals killed. How? So the animals are to be protected from killing? What is the purpose of introducing rules to cover up the work of committees authorising animal experimentation? What is so important about committee activities that these activities must be secret? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it about hiding the activities of institutions and companies that deal with... Thank you. ...to run tests on animals? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u276	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u277	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The annual experiments, which the ethics committees issue consent to, are subject to up to 250,000 in Poland. animals. This can now be seen by applying for public information, but this will no longer be possible once the legislation we are discussing has been introduced. In practice, this will make it much more difficult to challenge decisions taken by committees and pursue unethical practices. The government throws logs at thousands of activists and activists who fight for animal rights every day. How does that apply to so-called. Animal Fridays? Did President Kaczyński read this bill? If the lab treats animals ethically and has nothing to hide, why do you want to keep it secret? Do you want to defend the sadists? When will you ban the use of animals in the circus? When are you gonna ban fur animals? When are you gonna start keeping your word? The measure of humanity is our attitude toward animals. When are you gonna understand that? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u278	Thank you. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u279	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the PiS always takes up the subject of animal protection when it needs some kind of image warming. The last such idea was the so-called law. animal fives. What's happening to her now? For a year now, it has been in the Seym freezer, because some of your parliamentarians are blocking the improvement of the fate of animals in Poland. Unfortunately, this dislike also manifests itself in this procedated project. Theoretically, of course, you are introducing EU regulations, but you practically had to put something in there. Minister Czarnek managed to push some regulations to get around all of this. Why do you want to keep the ethics committee's proceedings secret, which consent to the use of animals for scientific purposes? Why do you take away the opportunity and the right to participate in these proceedings? What are you trying to hide? Maybe it's about introducing these other regulations on the one hand, and letting them continue to torment animals on the other hand? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why, in this amendment, do you restrict the constitutionally guaranteed right of citizens, citizens to information, to participate in administrative proceedings? Because that's what happens when you take away the opportunity to participate in animal experiments. Why are you introducing the possibility of secreting the work of ethical committees? At yesterday's committee meeting, a representative of NGOs pointed out the irregularities that occurred during the work of the ethics committee. Such accidents need to be explained, not silenced, because animal rights do not have to conflict with sound science, medical achievements, industry, business. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u282	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Sejm deals with amendments that include changing the name of a guinea pig to the name of a domestic coffee. Maybe that's important, but isn't it more important that the law clarify the legal issues and not create a field for hundreds of interpretations? In this Act there are provisions concerning competent persons who meet the requirements on the one hand and persons with appropriate qualifications on the other. Why does the Law on sensitive subjects such as animal health experience not clearly and transparently define the concepts of qualifications, professional experience and the skills of those responsible for conducting and overseeing these experiences? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u284	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A careful observer of the last six years of the rule of the United Right will notice that with each week, with each month, successive spheres are systematically secreted, further areas constituting our common public space. It was argued that there should be classified information about political flights, that there should be classified information about earnings in the NBP. It continues to find that information on the assets of the head of government's wife, the signatures under the nominations to the National Courts should be classified. Pope Francis says: the hypocrite is afraid of the truth. My question concerns Art. 38a. Secret, i.e. exempt from the public information regime, is to be resolutions, protocols and other documents produced by the National Ethics Commission on Animal Experience. Why? Why is the truth bothering you? Why are you afraid of her? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u286	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I also have a question for you as to whether someone called Mr Kaczyński and told him what was in this project. Because I do not believe that Mr Kaczyński knows and read this project. He let us know here as a protector of animals, and even though you betrayed him at five for animals, I'm sure that's the image he wanted to build. You want to hide what everyone is talking about, the work of ethical committees, and thus keep it secret, exactly how, under the conditions under which experiments on animals are carried out in Poland. Our public body must be subject to some kind of social control in its activities, and you are taking away from these animal organisations the right, for the welfare of animals, to really see and control what is happening. I was wondering why, because it would seem ridiculous, but I already know: in your case, it's always so that when you keep something secret, it's just so that someone you care about can make money from it, because there's absolutely no other reason for making decisions like this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u288	Oh, my God. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u289	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about what's our sensitivity, about laboratory animals, about protecting them. These laboratory animals, which are tested, are used for scientific, educational purposes, are also dedicated to human welfare. Their welfare requires special protection. Meanwhile, a good directive is completely corrupted by some of your strange, perhaps lobbyist amendments, because in fact in the article. 38 you want to take away the transparency of this procedure, and in Article. 40 You eliminate the participation of a social party who has the right to complain about certain decisions in administrative proceedings. There's no explanation for that. There's no explanation. This is what the social organisations are calling for, and that is what Members of the various parliamentary clubs are calling for. Really explain from this amendment who gave you this amendment (the bell) and why, and what is the intention of this amendment, to keep the whole procedure secret. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u290	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u291	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many parliamentarians have spoken here in the context of the law on many important matters. I want to bring up a subject that is a little bit next door, but it would certainly have an impact on how animals are treated. Well, in many countries, but also in many organisations, there are rules on the protection of animals, and they affect subordinates. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister whether the government is considering introducing standards for the protection of animals, rights and that animal welfare rules at government level are respected at all, in such a way as to affect the conduct of subordinate individuals and, for example, in a real way. companies of the Treasury, which at different moments, at different stages of their production can also use (The Bell) experience, the results of experiments with animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u292	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Previous item on the Law - Law on Higher Education and now the same author, the Ministry of Education and Science. You have started well because you are fulfilling the EU directive on the one hand, and on the other hand, these are really necessary solutions. Suddenly, an article is introduced. 38a, which conceals the work of the ethics committee, and you change the wording of the article. 40, which makes it impossible for social organisations to appear on matters concerning the consent to carry out experiments with the same social organisations, which most often indicate irregularities, animal suffering. My coalition colleague Małgorzata Tracz pointed out that these amendments are linguistically as if they were written by someone else. So I would like to ask if the author, perhaps the author is Deputy Minister of Rome... Thank you. ...who says he has no idea like animal rights... Thank you, Member. Mrs Marta Wcislo... ... Because animals have no legal capacity and are associated with the realm of ideological imagination...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u294	Mrs... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government proposal for a law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals used for scientific or educational purposes is intended to implement EU law. And it's all right, we're all for it. But at every opportunity, with every adjustment of Polish law to the EU, you do the same thing. You put things that are meant to serve something or someone. Why in Art. 38a classified the work of the ethics committee? What are you trying to hide? Are the members of the ethics committees and their salaries? Perhaps so. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The Member confirmed that it was. We already know that, ladies and gentlemen, this is about wages for sure. Why in Art. 40 are you restricting access to non-governmental organisations by eliminating them from all proceedings as a party? That is why, as the Civic Coalition (the bell), we applied for rejection at first reading... Thank you very much, Member. ...and we've also tabled 20 amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u296	Thank you. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the explanatory memorandum, the draft law extends the scope of the so-called adaptation. 3R rules that improve the existence and humanitarian treatment of experimental animals, including laboratory animals, used in scientific experiments and medical tests, improve animal breeding and maintenance, so that unnecessary pain can be prevented or the suffering of animals. Ladies and gentlemen, if the law itself has such an objective, then one question arises: Why are you restricting the right of social organisations to control? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u298	Thank you very much. Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I was astonished to hear the discussion on this bill at the committee meeting. I ignore the fact that the legislators said you had to rewrite the bill, and you're correcting it and updating it. But above all, we go completely against the 21st century trend, which is less publicity, less access for NGOs and much less animal rights. When the whole world tries to limit this research, eliminate unnecessary research, Poland thanks to your governments as a museum Even in this case, in the case of the smaller brothers, he behaves absolutely crazy. I also have a question for Members and Members of the PiS: Do you know that animal testing is also done on cats? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u300	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The basic problem of PiS is that he denies himself. We just had a point where a government project on extending university freedom, freedom to express scientific views, broadly understood freedom was presented. At this point, the PiS tightens the screw of this freedom by limiting transparency and social control. I'm not surprised, because in practice, I see that PiS treats people like animals just as instrumentally. In the autumn of that year there were five for animals, where freedom for organic organisations and their competences were expanding, and now there is another law in which social control and the transparency of ethical committees are limited. The development of science is extremely important, while the measure of our civilisation and humanity is to reduce the suffering of animals in research processes. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u302	Thank you very much. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed rules introduce the secrecy of the work of ethical committees, which in practice will prevent social organisations from reporting, challenging the extreme most brutal practices that occur in the case of research and experiments on live animals. The question is, why such a sudden lack of empathy towards animals in the authors of the project. A year ago, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński proposed a five for animals, which was to predict among others. Humane treatment of animals and social control of breeding. What happened over the course of the year that you are now proposing solutions contrary to previous announcements? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u304	Thank you. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u305	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Unfortunately, this law is a very bad step in the direction of trust in social organisations, which are an effective pillar in the fight for animal rights. The solutions entered by the States in this legal act de facto receive the right to object, to challenge violent cases of scientific experiments. You in this project have completely drifted away from the ideas that you yourself wanted to introduce into the so-called. Five for animals. What happened to you guys? What happened to the project, the five? After all, your brightest President of the Republic of Poland Jarosław Kaczyński said that the attitude towards animals is an element of culture, the higher it is, the more humane it is. Let us not block the cultural promotion of our nation. So what happened to your sensitivity? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you blocking... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u306	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition. Please, Mr Michał Krawczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The main charge of this law, this amendment, is that you eliminate the possibility of challenging decisions taken by ethical committees by NGOs. You also limit access to these decisions by NGOs. We haven't heard the answer so far, even though we asked it on the committee. I ask that you present today a rational and effective answer to this question, because it has not yet fallen. When we talk about animal rights, I'd like to ask you where five animals are. Where is the bill about which Jarosław Kaczyński said that its adoption is a matter of humanitarianism and human goodness? Why was such an important bill, supported by your president, thrown down a deep closet by you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u308	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The European Commission called on the Polish government to implement the 2010 Directive, but earlier - in 2019, so it took a while before you brought the bill. But earlier, in 2017, the Supreme Audit Chamber examined this, which also prepared a number of recommendations for implementation. The case is important because, according to the justification, over 800,000 have been used in the past 5 years for experience. animals, of which more than 300,000. Killed. Therefore, this is an element of our humanity, hence the question. First of all, why did this implementation take so long? And secondly, why does the bill actually depart from this directive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u310	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. In view of the voting time that is coming, I will ask the Minister to respond after the votes. I'm announcing a three-minute break right now. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 27 hours 16 min 43]] I'm reopening the session. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Senate's resolution on the Compensation Act for service providers or economic operators in connection with the introduction of a state of emergency in the Podlasie region and part of Lublin Voivodeship in 2021, print No 1595. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law on guaranteed housing credit and on the repayment of this credit in connection with the enlargement of the household, print No 1596. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. It's a formal conclusion, isn't it? [[Yes.]] There you go, Mr Boris. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u311	Dear Marshal! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. I ask the Sejm to adjourn the sitting of the Sejm in order to convene the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and to reprimand the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, the Chief of Police in connection with the absence of the committee yesterday. The committee meeting was devoted to information for the Sejm in connection with the tragic death of three people in Lower Silesia, three young people who died immediately after police intervention. In each of these cases there was strangulation, in some cases batting, fists. We demanded information on the extent to which the police were trained, who made mistakes. Neither the Minister of Interior and Administration nor the Chief Police Officer were present. The fathers of their sons, Mr Bartosz Sokołowski, and the dead must have driven 1,200 km. Łukasz Łagiewka. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. The minister wasn't here, which is why we want you, Marshal... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u312	Mr President, listen to me. A formal proposal may concern a meeting of the Sejm, not a committee meeting. That's one thing. Secondly, Mr Szczepański is the chairman of the committee and it is the chairman of the committee who decides who he invites to the committee meeting. As far as I know... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No, no!]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. What's with all the excitement? [[Three people are dead.]] I would like to remind you that a formal proposal could only concern the Sejm's meetings, not committee meetings. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No. Therefore, I cannot put this proposal to the vote. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity about the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1593-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Additional report of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament, prints no 1587 and 1593. At its meeting today, the Sejm re-directed the draft resolution to the committee in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission, having considered the amendments at its meeting on 29 September 2021, asks the High Sejm to reject the attached amendments 1, 2, 3 and 5 and to accept amendment 4. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u314	Thank you. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1593. The Commission also presents minority proposals, as well as the additional report on amendments, on which we will vote first. All minority proposals and all amendments have been tabled to the article. 1 draft resolution containing amendments to the resolution of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. In the first amendment to Article. 37 applicants propose to add paragraph. 5 and 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 171 - for, 230 - against, 43 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 43 applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a-1d. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 171 - for, 228 - against, 44 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the first minority application, applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 2 117a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 206 - for, 228 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the second minority proposal to Article. 117a applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 3, as well as the addition of paragraph 3. 4.8. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 205 - for, 229 - against, hold down 8. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority application and the same third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 117c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this proposal will render the 4th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority proposal and the 3rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 215-- for, 229-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 4th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 117c. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 229 - for, 215 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th minority proposal and the 5th amendment, the applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 3 117d. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th minority proposal and the 5th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 215-- for, 229-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the proposals. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print no. 1593, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 229 - for, 214 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on Compensation for service providers or economic operators in connection with the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of the Podlaskie Voivodeship and part of the Lublin Voivodeship in 2021 (prints No 1589 and 1595). I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I present the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, in print No 1595, on the adoption of the Senate's act on compensation for service providers or economic operators in connection with the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of the Podlaskie Voivodeship and part of the Lublin Voivodeship in 2021, print No 1589. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 78 (1) (a) (ii) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 22 September the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 28 September 2021, asks the High Sejm to approve amendments 3, 4, 8 and to reject the other amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u316	Thank you very much. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. We will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate's amendments. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the title of the Act. Amendments 2 and 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 2 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. No one was for, 446 against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes to add paragraph. Article 3 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 231 - for, 215 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes to add paragraph. Article 4 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 229 - for, against - 217, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 5, the Senate proposes to add paragraph. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 229 - for, 217 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment to the article. 2 (2) 1 The Senate proposes to change the amount of compensation from 65% to 80%. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 228 - for, 217 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 8, the Senate proposes to delete the second sentence of Article. 3 (1) (a) 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 237 - for, 207 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 9th amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 6 The Senate proposes to amend its referral. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. No one was against - 446, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 10th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add paragraph. Article 7 3. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. No one was against 444, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 11th amendment to the article. 5 The Senate proposes among others. the amendment to the calculation. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. No one was for, 444 against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 12th amendment to the article. 6 The Senate proposes that the word "Community' be replaced by "Union'. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. No one was in favor of, uh, 443, 2 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Compensation Act for entities providing services or conducting economic activities in connection with the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of the Podlasie region and parts of the Lublin Voivodeship in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the end of the vote for today. One minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 a.m. 17 min 02]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 5 of the agenda. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science of Minister Włodzimierz Bernacki to answer questions posed by parliamentarians. You're welcome, Minister. Sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u317	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! I'm having second thoughts about my speech... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please move the conversations to the colloquials. I don't think there's even gonna be any answers under these conditions. If you're interested in answers, please stay. All the people talking, please move these conversations into crouches. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Włodzimierz Bernacki: Thank you very much, Marshal. I have the impression that the separation of discussions, the debate on the amendment of the voting law has caused a large number of people who have participated in this debate... [[No, we're not. We're here.]] I'm very happy for you. I am pleased that Mrs Skowronska is here, that there are also other Members who have asked questions. Ladies and gentlemen! Again, I feel like we're dealing with two perspectives. I would like to ask you to take a closer look at the draft amendment of the law. If you read these records that have appeared there, you will first of all see that the supervision and control of research, on animal experiments through this amendment are much stronger than ever. Firstly, the amendment sets up animal welfare teams. This is the first point that did not appear at all in these speeches by Members of the Left. Secondly, the powers of the district veterinarian to stop and prevent the continuation of the studies if there is a breach of those rules and principles as laid down in the plan, in a project approved by the local ethics committee. It's the county doctor who has the authority. It seems to be a very strong impulse or such a blocking moment, preventing abuse of these activities or experiments. Thirdly, this amendment provides for the appointment of experts who will accompany the district veterinarian. They can, but they don't have to. If they wish, they will participate in the whole process of experimentation or research. It's been completely removed, too. This is the country you weren't paying attention to at all. Fourthly, both the law and, above all, the amendment of the law indicate that 12 members of the local ethics committee three people come from non-governmental organisations, i.e. those NGOs you spoke about. This access to the work of this committee on the part of these organisations is not only possible, but is already implemented under the law in force. Among the allegations that have appeared here are those that say that these organisations do not have or will not have the opportunity to block or prevent these bad research practices. Well, they do, because there are representatives of these organizations in the local ethics committees. That's one thing. Secondly, they may also take action and also report to the veterinary surgeon all these reservations, comments which they have noticed. The amendment provided for such a solution that the three people on the local ethics committee had the opportunity to take action to block these possible bad experimental practices. I know that among the amendments there was a proposal to lower this threshold to two votes, i.e. to two people, for example from the NGO, but I assume that also those who are representatives of such sciences as ethics or philosophy can participate directly in this. Let us not assume that 12 people in the local ethics committee only those who come from NGOs or have been delegated by NGOs meet this requirement, which you spoke very strongly about, i.e. the requirement of sensitivity to these bad experimental practices. So this is really something to bear in mind. Finally, the issue that emerged was raised, i.e. classified reports. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there were no intentions on the part of the Ministry of Education and Science. There was a reference to the article. 51nd Constitution. The community of the Civic Coalition or opposition in the Polish Sejm should know this article. 51. I'll remind you, Art. 51 says: No one can be obliged otherwise than under the Act to disclose information concerning him or her. Public authorities may not collect, collect, share information about citizens other than those necessary in a democratic legal state. Please also bear in mind that we are talking about conducting experimental, research activities not only in universities. There are also laboratories of pharmaceutical companies or companies that create new cosmetics. Ladies and gentlemen, certain secrets cannot go outside because it would be a violation of the copyright, personal rights of those researchers or institutions that conduct or finance these studies. But again, referring to this, I looked at the amendments that appeared among the amendments tabled during the second reading. Among other things, she appeared. such an amendment, which says that resolutions will be published, while they will be hidden - I'm sorry, I do not find the right term at the moment - there will be classified information which relates directly to research activities, i.e. specific research effects. Ladies and gentlemen! As with the first project, it is not that the Ministry of Education and Science had some evil intentions. Maybe I shouldn't say this, but I'm treating my cat myself, so cat lovers are really -- there is no Mrs Bakery -- very many. I'm my Tony, who's 15 years old. I'm a cardiologist. This is the first time I've talked about this in public. Some of my neighbors will probably be amazed that a cat can be treated with cardiology. I'm doing it, and I'm costing it. But why am I talking about this? Because it's outrageous to me that people who work at the Ministry of Education and Science are attributed some scandalous instincts. We really are not those who would be concerned about the violation of well-being or the rules and principles developed by the ethics committees that have agreed to implement them by this or other research lab. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that there will be time at the committee or joint committee meeting to discuss and use arguments, and not, as in this earlier debate, that there will be only talk. Let's really try. If you have said that the measure of our humanity is the attitude toward animals, then it is also worth adding that the measure of our humanity is our attitude toward the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u318	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws (Prints No 1532, 1532-A and 1597). I kindly ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u319	Dear Marshal! High Seym! The Public Finance Commission had the honour to deal with one of the more fundamental laws of the Polish Government, the Tax Act. The Act, which passed the first reading in the plenary of the Sejm, the Act contained in prints Nos 1532 and 1532-A as the government's own amendment, was examined at the meeting of the Public Finance Commission on 23 September. The Commission has been working on this bill for over 13 hours. I think that everyone who spoke had the opportunity to speak not only on the subject of individual articles, but also during discussions on the general principles of this law. The general discussion was very comprehensive. During the general discussion, among others. a request for a public hearing has been made and a second request has been made to postpone the committee's deliberations. So that all Poles can benefit from the benefits of the Tax Act within the Polish Government since January 2022, so that the Polish... Requests for a public hearing, for a postponement of the committee's deliberations, led to the fact that this law does not enter into force, as tax changes relating to those taxes that we settle annually must be published by the end of November. Thus, with full awareness, proposals were submitted so that this law would not be published by the end of November, so that Poles would not be able to benefit from tax relief, and these are substantial amounts, because the tax law provides, among other things, that Poles' pockets will be reduced by about PLN 17 billion, so, 17 billion PLN. This is the case, firstly, by raising the tax-free amount to 30,000. zł, which was a difficult amount to imagine many years ago. Indeed, this tax-free amount offers great tax benefits to taxpayers. Secondly, by raising the second tax threshold, on which the tax comes 32% , up to 120 thousand. PLN - I will remind you that so far it has been an amount of 85 thousand. - so it's almost 50%. These two tax movements make the citizens very much benefit from this law. By the way, it could be said that the tax-free pension password is practically included in this law, as the vast majority of pensioners have less than 30,000. zł pension per year, i.e. they will all be exempt from tax. Fortunately, during the committee's deliberations, these requests for a public hearing and a postponement of the committee's deliberations were rejected by the committee and we were able to proceed with this bill. Many amendments were tabled during the debate on this law, including: one quite important, important amendment, which increases the relief for families who raise at least four children. It concerns an increase in the tax-free amount by another 85 000. zł. I repeat: another one, because the amount of 30,000 is already foreseen. for everyone. So really - let's imagine - for two parents it's twice 30,000. PLN and twice 85 thousand. zł, i.e. the amount free... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Let's talk about the lonely.]] What's wrong? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Lonely.]] Relax, it annoys you, I know. Don't disturb me, sir. Tax-free amounts are very important. These amounts free are very important. Parents with four and more children will mostly not pay tax. I understand that this irritates some, but please listen patiently. Those are the facts. I'm reporting on what happened at the committee meeting. Such an amendment was accepted, although it must be made clear that the financial impact covers the amount of PLN 335 million. However, I think that from the point of view of achieving the demographic objective, and so in this respect, it is worthwhile to make such an effort. An amendment was also adopted on the conversion of the child allowance for single parents for an amount of PLN 1500. This is an amendment that is particularly supportive of less earners, because the percentage conversion of this relief was highly rewarded by the most earners, and indeed it was very disadvantageous for low earners. So far, the average tax relief for this purpose was PLN 1154 and now it is a minimum of PLN 1500, so it is indeed very beneficial, particularly beneficial for less earners. The law also introduces many other changes, which I will no longer discuss in detail. The tax on large corporations is also an extremely important solution, because these large corporations often pay very small taxes or almost no income tax at all, avoid paying this tax. Fortunately, despite the European Commission's resistance, the trade network tax, which is already in operation, has been successfully introduced, but it only applies to commercial networks, i.e. companies engaged in trade. At this point, there is still a tax on large corporations, a tax that will be set at a time when there is no CIT tax. As a result of tax optimization, this tax is avoided. Amendments have yet to be tabled, which have not been accepted, which are worth mentioning, inter alia. extending the time limits for entry into force of the various provisions, as well as repeated amendments to increase the participation of local authorities in the tax write-down of PIT and CIT. Thus, in the case of the Tax Compensation Act, we explained that this is not possible because in such a case a larger tax write-off of PIT and CIT would actually grant the richest municipalities, unlike the weakest municipalities, which do not have a large amount of PIT tax, and now they will especially have small ones, because the tax write-off of 0 will not give any results. This would therefore benefit only the richest municipalities, the largest cities that would actually benefit from it. As regards the solution that was introduced earlier, at the previous Sejm meeting as regards the law on the financing of local self-government units, this act, which compensates for the losses in PIT and CIT tax, actually makes it possible to fully compensate for the loss of these revenues. In addition, given the current budget bill, which already introduces further funding for local governments for this year, I stress, in an algorithmic manner, because this is an investment grant for the water and sewage economy: 1 billion on waterworks, 3 billion on sewage - plus the amount of 8 billion already guaranteed in that law - it must be stated that the local authorities have a fully compensated loss of tax revenue from PIT and CIT from the state budget. All the money left in the taxpayers' pocket will, of course, reduce the revenue of the state budget, but this is an economic policy aimed at keeping more money in the people's pocket. Of course, the issue of tax absolution, which is an incentive to return, is still an important issue with regard to this law. The Ministry called it a repatriation of capital, i.e. an incentive to return entrepreneurs with capital to Poland, which is offered a long-term relief, another 85 thousand. reliefs, to a similar extent as in the case of young people, families with four children. With regard to undisclosed income, it is proposed that this could be taxed at a flat rate under very preferential conditions. I think this is a historic moment for the Polish economy, for Polish taxpayers, because it was not possible to dream about such a scale of tax reduction many years ago. Most importantly, 90% The taxpayers will have more money in their pockets. Sometimes they come out here on the speaker's floor, who say: through the Polish Load you raise taxes. So I ask: Then why is 17 billion PLN left in taxpayers' pockets? If these taxes are raised, as some say, it means that more should be added to the budget. Turns out it's not. Some say, "Give it to the local governments because you've raised taxes, so the local governments will have less." I call for fundamental logic in this discussion (Mounting in the Chamber) because if taxes are lowered, money stays in taxpayers' pockets and indeed local governments, and the state budget has less tax revenue, but governments are compensated for it 100%. [[That's not true.]] So think about it when you say we're raising taxes. Of course, you can't escape the truth. Now you can still tell things, because not everyone is able to exactly check it all out and count it, but I think it's a lie that has been repeated over the past few weeks, will be absolutely thrown out of consciousness, I don't know, in January, in February, when all the citizens see that they have in their pockets more net income. It's inevitable and it will be. I think this bill introduces it. Since the work in the committee was indeed very long, the law was very extensive, I would just like to end by thanking you for the substantive discussion. Of course, at the beginning of the committee's deliberations, the discussion was very political and tried to torpedo the work, but later on, for the following hours or for the next 10 hours of the committee's work, it was already a substantive discussion, based on facts, based on records, for which I thank all Members and the Minister for his patience in the work in this committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u320	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The Declaration of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Henryk Kowalczyk. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u321	Dear Marshal! Now on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a few words about this bill. Of course, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice strongly supports this law. It is very necessary, it will bring a large income to taxpayers, it will be another stimulator of the Polish economy, because when it comes to tax revenues, economic development, it is based, among others. on consumption. Of course, we also appreciate exports, but consumption is the basis for economic development. The fact that 17 billion PLN will remain in the pockets of taxpayers who shop for families will certainly translate into proper consumption and thus also into economic growth. Because this economic thinking of the Government of Law and Justice: supporting families, supporting citizens, stimulating consumption, causing economic growth. Unfortunately, this was not the case under the Civic Platform's rule, because after every crisis, people watched how to cut spending here. We cut expenses, so we curl up and it sucked like a spiral. Less spending, less economic development, less taxes, so we cut further, and thus we wound up economic development. Unfortunately, such mechanisms are unacceptable in the economy. This leads to an increase in unemployment, poverty in society, and really this spiral is pulling us down. The thinking of the Government of Law and Justice is quite the opposite. If we want to stimulate the economy, let's leave money in people's pockets. Let us allow them to spend this money and thus stimulate the economy. And that's what we've been doing for the last few years. But of course, because this law was very extensive and many changes were made, these discussions continued, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I am still making a few amendments. E.g. One of the amendments aims to make the so-called amendments. relief for the middle class, i.e. the one described unfortunately by a complicated mathematical formula, extend to those conducting business activities that account for themselves on the basis of principles... [[Voice from the Chamber: This had to be supported by the amendment...]] Madame, this call from the end of the room does not really make sense. Of course, we would support this amendment which you have tabled, but it was unfortunately poorly prepared and could not be put in such a way as to apply. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And you're still yelling. [[But your marshal, you don't know what we're talking about.]] Of course, we would have good intentions, but in practice this would not be feasible. This is the amendment we make. This will equalise the rights of those taxpayers who account for themselves on a general basis, both in employment contracts and in the pursuit of business activities. There's a new one, one more idea. It will be a relief for workers who have reached retirement age. So it's such an incentive for those who are already retired, but do not retire, want to continue working. The proposal is to apply another tax credit of PLN 85 528. So it's an additional tax credit, an additional tax-free amount, so let's call it, as is the case with young workers and families with four children. There are still a few amendments that move some solutions over time, both so that they can be prepared and that beneficiaries can benefit from this longer. It goes on, among other things. about what I already mentioned so-called. abolition, or repatriation of capital. We propose that the deadline for submitting applications for participation in this abolition programme be extended by 3 months, so that all Poles who wish to submit such a request may, firstly, be given the opportunity to read the proposal, secondly, to take a decision. Another change concerns the taxation of the rental of apartments. The aim is to make this change in the rules on the taxation of the rental of apartments from January 2023, because after the entry into force of this law, i.e. after the announcement in November, this month would indeed not be enough. There is also a shift in the very important solution promoting our investment potential, i.e. the solution for VAT groups. It is about moving its entry into force by six months, i.e. by 1 July 2007. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope that, when we make these amendments, we are already improving this good law very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u322	Thank you very much, sir. You have run out of time, so Mrs Chorosinska will no longer speak. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, on behalf of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Kowalczyk! The basis for long-term economic development is not consumption, it is investment. You should know that this long-term stimulation of consumption with a complete fall and collapse in investments has resulted in a crazy cost. And that's the effect of your governments actually. [[Applause]] Everyone already knows that the changes in the tax system called by PiS Polski Ładem are, first, unprecedented legislative chaos and total tax mess. Secondly, it is a hit on Polish companies, especially small ones, because large companies will manage, possibly move their tax residence abroad. Thirdly, the abolition of the health relief, i.e. the increase in income tax for all taxpayers. Fourthly, taking a chance of earning even the small-timers who bought the apartment to make money on rent for retirement. Fifthly, even this relief for the middle class means that this class would not simply lose, but the New Deal would be a blessing. And sixthly, these poorest, pensioners, those who were to be beneficiaries, now know that they will pay this inflationary tax even higher and that the entire profit will be expensive for them and certainly not enough for electricity bills. However, not everyone knows that New Deal, like today's amendment to the budget law, is really a continuation of the privatisation of the health system. PiS has been privatizing the health care system for 6 years. [[Applause]] Private expenditure on health protection has never been as high as in these 6 years and the increase in these private expenditures is higher than the increase in public expenditure. And that's the phenomenon you're deepening in New Deal. The main change is that the PiS government eliminates health relief, which means that 80 billion PLN more could reach the budget. 80 billion PLN more you take out, Mr Kowalczyk, the people out of your pocket, so don't tell me that 16 billion PLN will stay in their pocket, because first 80 billion PLN will be taken out of this pocket. [[Applause]] And now the question for a million: What should this money, with the 80 billion zlotys, do responsible and wise government? What should the government do in a country where the number of deaths in hospital emergency units is increasing? And I'm not talking about the year of the pandemic. For the past six years, since the beginning of your reigns, the super-deadness of Poles has increased and our life span has been reduced. What does that mean? It means that the quality of health care is falling. Because the PiS government didn't increase the cost of health care in the years of great economics. This contribution paid by employees resulted in higher income from the NFZ, but this is a natural phenomenon in the economic cycle, because we had a good economic situation. However, you failed to take into account that inflation, the increase in minimum wage, higher wages in the economy resulted in the cost of the whole functioning of the health system being higher. You didn't invest in health, you invest in direct transfers, and you continue in New Deal, and people pay with their lives. Because transfers are good, but the state first has a duty to ensure the safety of its citizens, above all health security and above all the poorest citizens. [[Applause]] Meanwhile, what does the PiS government do? In the face of the death of public health care, the death of Polish patients gives away 100, 150 PLN each to poor people and says: manage yourselves, without a doctor, without an ambulance, without rehabilitation, stay with your pain, with your illness in four walls of homes and give us holy peace, because the government does not care that you are sick and that you do not have a private visit to a doctor. Nobody in PiS cares that pensioners have more and more difficult access to a doctor, that physiotherapy will only be for the rich from January. Paradoxically, the bill, which eliminates health relief and brings 80 billion PLN, will result in a further collapse in health care and a further increase in the number of deaths. Because if we're even the leader in something because of the PiS, it's in that, in dying. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u324	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, on behalf of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're actually discussing the tax bill and the tax change. I hear that the government calls this bill an element of this famous Polish Order. I have the impression that we are confusing the concepts, because I saw this presentation by the Prime Minister, the Polish Load was supposed to be primarily investments, construction of roads, energy, networks, climate protection. It was the Polish Load. Rather, it was not said that we would increase taxes for Poles and that, in short, we would change the tax system in this way. Nothing has changed when it comes to matters relating to what is written in this law, and the committee's meeting in this area has not changed. The key issue was that this law should not be introduced from 1 January 2022, and if it is already, from 2023, in order to actually convert it calmly, to discuss it. Because I want to make it clear to my friends from PiS that you are not preparing the tax system for Law and Justice, only for Poles and Poles, for Poland. Whether or not the PiS rules another party, the tax system must be simple, clear and clear, but this bill makes this system not simple, clear and clear, but it will become very complicated and, of course, what President Kowalczyk is talking about, not as beneficial as you are talking about here and this is your propaganda. You're introducing an extra tax. Tell me honestly that you're introducing a new tax, which is called a health contribution. There's no doubt about that. Whatever reality you'd be begging for, today's health premium was 1.25%, and now it's going to be 9%. So between 1.25 and 9 is 7.75. Therefore, do not deceive us that you are lowering anything, because if you do, you are increasing it. Secondly, when it comes to issues relating to the reasons why you are doing this, it is obviously a problem, and it is clear that it will be money that will influence the state budget. Therefore, you have an additional 80 billion on the side of budget revenue. That's what you do. In addition, you will be able, in short, to weaken the local government, because, as far as this health contribution is concerned, there is no write-off for local governments, and therefore it is simply the proceeds to the state budget. We talked about the fact that as far as the tax system is concerned, this system should actually be a progressive system. This law does not introduce a progressive system at all. You boast about raising the second tax threshold, but that doesn't change the fact that it doesn't introduce any progressive system, because there is still a situation where a nurse, a teacher or a shop employee pays more taxes on their income than the bank president, the president of a large state company or developers. You talk a lot about health care. These changes do not make any modifications and increase the expenditure on health protection, because we are talking about just PLN 7 billion. Today you were talking about tax revenue. This revision of the budget also shows exactly what we are talking about here. Today, what you're trying to introduce will cause a simple thing. Yeah, there's gonna be more tax revenue because we're gonna pay more for everything. There's no doubt about it, it's natural. Only really, in terms of Poland's development, economic development, investment is important. Also tell the Poles what the level of investment looks like in your governments. 17% GDP. Since the changes in 1989, this is the lowest level of investment we are dealing with in Poland. This is your short-term policy: give theoretically something, give the money away, win the next election, and let the next ones worry about that debt. This isn't the way. There are some good things in this bill, but in general it is a law of evil and in this formula, I stress, the Left will not support it. We make amendments to the progressive tax system, we make amendments to compensation for local governments, we make amendments to withdraw what you did (the bell), i.e. the lack of common taxation of the parent and child. Thank you very much, sir. Please make adjustments. We are introducing an amendment on the change of the date of entry into force of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u326	Thank you. I invite Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish to speak on behalf of the Polish Coalition. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman. [[Can I help you?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u327	Thank you. Hardly, but... Right. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The New Deal Act is an example of how from interesting ideas, sometimes from good directions you can lead to the situation that in the old mess that is in the tax space, a new mess was made. Unfortunately, a perversion of good ideas is the principle that at the end of this law. The more and harder you work, the higher taxes you pay. There used to be such a good Polish proverb, it is worth reminding them: without work there are no knockers. And you changed that: the more work, the less knocks. [[Applause]] This is the principle of social injustice. Who's this bill gonna hit? First of all, the most active. In entrepreneurs, in active pensioners, in people of hard work. It leads to the fact that Ms Agnieszka, who had a hairdresser, kept three jobs during the pandemic, for 3 or 4 months was closed during the COVID epidemic, will receive a higher tax and will have to pay more. [[That's not true.]] This is a form of thank-you? [[Applause]] This is what the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises says, that it hits entrepreneurs, tries to defend them. It's really not worth going this way. Active pensioners, entrepreneurs, hard work people - the group that has been most experienced. Earnings. Information to President Kowalczyk, who is the sole representative of this law: as rapporteur and representative of the PiS... That means a lot of you aren't so proud of it because they don't want to run out on the stand. Someone's making $4,000. zł, 4093 zł. How much will he get from the New Deal? Goldilocks. For the Prime Minister, it's not even half a loaf of bread he can buy. Maybe three Kaisers if it goes well. [[Applause]] This bill makes life difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill makes life difficult. 700 pages. Who's gonna read it? Other tax firms will be created to translate it from yours to human, to normal, to Polish, to translate what you wrote. [[Applause]] Even the Sejm Analysis Office, the Sejm's legislators say: we do not take legislative responsibility for this law, because what it looks like is simply unacceptable. These are your employees, the firm you've been running for years. It's a good thing they still have the guts to say it. 1 month to prepare. What Mr Wieczorek was talking about: year, minimum year for preparation. Another motion from Minister Abramowicz. That's not a conclusion. Only opposition or entrepreneurs. This is the proposal of the former PiS Member, who is today spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises. You must also know that... That's worth explaining. It is often said that this money will go to health. Only that the health contribution in Poland does not change because of this law, it still amounts to 9% And that's the kind of contribution that went to the NFZ budget. The taxpayer can still count 7,75% today. But it's tax, not health contributions. You've created a vision that this money will go to health. My dears, I'm afraid not. Probably if that were the case, many would say: okay, for health we can pay more. But they'll go to the state budget. And what are the important items in the state budget, the expenses you proposed? 2 billion on TVP. So what will now be paid by the most productive entrepreneurs, active pensioners, will go to public television. For health there is no more gold, because the health contribution does not change. There'll be more money in the budget. Self-governments and looting them. You take 12 billion, 8 you give, and it is not known what the rules are, or not according to the color of the party card, rather than the needs of the local community. This project can still be repaired, and this is our constructive proposal, because as I said at the beginning, ideas and directions were not the worst, and some even good, like a pension without tax from us, but their execution is fatal. First of all, the adoption of our resolution, no new taxes during the epidemic and two years after it was completed. [[Applause]] Secondly, the adoption of the citizens' pension law without tax - for all, not for the chosen ones, not only for a specific group, but also for example. for a teacher who has 2600 pensions, over 2500. [[And that's why we officially want to...]] [[Voice from the room: You're not bothering me.]] [[Voice from the room: Mask.]] Thirdly, a real tax-free amount, not an increase of 7,75%. Fourthly, VAT refund on investments for local governments. This is an extremely important issue. Those self-governments that are active will get a VAT refund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the fifth amendment: excise duty on alcohol and cigarettes - health. Cheers, really. Not pretending, not to the state budget, just to the sick, to the hospitals. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm gonna need some adjustments. I invite Mr Jakub Kulesza, near the Confederation, to the pulpit. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Goldilocks isn't good. Thank you very much, sir. Okay, okay, okay, okay, I did not want to leave Mr Kowalczyk unanswered.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u328	But, Mr. Chairman, don't prolong. Mr Jakub Kulesza. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At this meeting of the Sejm, the new embankment of the government will eventually be pushed through with its knee. Here's what the PiS wants to do with the middle class. He wants to destroy it. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is known for his truthfulness, hence his nickname, the nickname Pinocchio. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki will say that this is a historic tax reduction. Prime Minister, my dear liar... Mr... ...this is a historic tax increase that has never been in Poland before. [[Voice from the hall: But she didn't pass.]] I agree that the current tax system, the labour taxation system is illogical, inconsistent, holes, complex. Above all, work is very heavily taxed, on average at 40%. This tax is pretty linear. The poorer pay 38%, the middle class pays the most - 41% The richer, 39%. And what do you want to do about it? Your new shaft makes this system even more illogical, even more inconsistent, in some places more holes when it comes to big business and, above all, more complex. Most importantly, taxation will rise. To some people you will gently lower them, but to all others you will drastically increase them, to the extent that for those who fall into the second threshold, each dollar can be taxed almost at 60%. You can see that height. Why is this happening? Because it is not a substantive project, it is not an economic project. This is a 100% project. electoral. Let's take a look at your electorate. Almost 55% the electorate states are inactive persons, mostly pensioners and pensioners. You're the only group with that electorate structure. On the other side is the Confederation, where almost 75% The electorate is an active person. That's what you're following. In Poland we have 9 million pensioners. This is your electoral base, which you want to make clear, but you do it at the expense of a part of society, e.g. 6 million citizens who are responsible for half of Polish GDP. This is your way. This is another social transfer. Who's gonna benefit from that? Who's gonna lose on this? Let's take the minimum wage. Someone receiving a minimum wage will be paid as part of this reduction of PLN 137. That's exactly how much inflation will eat in a year and four months. That is the biggest fraud in your proposal. Where the State allegedly reduces taxes, it does so in quota: the tax-free amount, the second tax threshold, and where the State raises taxes, it does so in percentage terms. This means that, in the context of crazy inflation, which is included in your monetary policy, fiscal policy, this tax reduction will still be eaten by inflation and the tax increase (the bell) will be constant and soon nothing will be left of your reduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u330	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska on behalf of the Poland 2050 wheel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! My first request, which I repeat on record when we talk about tax changes: stop promising Polish people and Poles wealth, because these tax changes will not give them wealth. So what if those who are underprivileged get 100 PLN or 150 PLN more to pay? Yes, it probably matters to them, but you forget to add that on the other hand they will have to spend 200 PLN on private tutoring for their children, because education is getting worse and worse, and on a private doctor. We have an increase in the cost of living, clothing, food and housing. Also tell people that we're saying goodbye to a fair, but also a simplified tax system, because this simplified tax system law certainly doesn't. I mean, I'm really glad that after hours of explaining this to you in committee. you realized that Poles cannot be differentiated due to the form of employment, and you accepted my arguments that the middle class, also self-employed, should be protected. But, of course, it is impossible not to notice that as a result of these changes, small and medium-sized enterprises will be burdened with costs, and large multinational corporations will get new privileges, because Poland's Load is currently conducive to globalisation and centralization of the economy. And that's the effect. But Polish Load is also an attack on Polish incomplete families. That's a fact. Madame and all the Law and Justice, stop saying that you are doing something better for single-parent families than you are doing, because the drop-off in the form of the elimination of the joint settlement of single-parent families with their children is simply an added tax cost, [[Applause]] Because single parents are losing a double tax-free amount today, and that's what you gave them, because if there were old laws, they'd have 60,000. The amount of free money, and you're giving them $30,000. In this situation they lose 3600 PLN a year. Do you know what this is for such a family of PLN 3,600? This is a dream holiday for children, these are extra classes, they may need tutoring or maybe you need a doctor's appointment or a pediatrician. Perhaps 3,500 PLN does not matter to you, but for single mothers raising children and fathers raising children alone, three, two or even one, it is often a huge amount of money, especially that in the sweat, in the struggle every day, in order to ensure a good start for their children, they combine family life with professional life, and you do not have the slightest respect for it. [[That's a lie!]] This is our basic argument why we will not continue to support the Polish Deal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are many others, of course. And I also make an appropriate, appropriate amendment in this respect. [[Voice from the hall: School for the bills.]] No, no. I can count.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u332	Mr Stanisław Bukowiec, near the Agreement. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The true art of governing requires looking further than the next election. Unfortunately, the proposed tax change is an example of short-term thinking. On several hundred pages of the project the government is trying to convince us, all Poles, that it has just found a prescription for turning Poland into a country in milk and honey flowing. In our experience, we all know that such wishful thinking does not turn into reality. The government has prepared something because it is difficult to call a sensible program, which is seemingly attractive, but will end in disaster, unfortunately not only for this government, but for the economy. It is important to appreciate the attempt to introduce good solutions, among others. those proposed by the Agreement, concerning, at least a much higher amount of free, an increase in the second tax threshold. Unfortunately, these are only attempts, because the results of the other proposed changes will cause any positive effects to be destroyed. Jarosław Gowin's agreement has shown the harmfulness of the proposed tax changes for weeks. We have paid a high price for our attitude, but it is clear that acceptance of government proposals is at the same time an agreement to the destruction of the middle class, entrepreneurship and sustainability of local finances. We couldn't agree to that. The government says it lowers taxes, but it is clear that this is an increase in tax burdens. For an average Pole there is no difference between tax and tribute, so naivety, or even lies about tax reduction. The health contribution becomes de facto a tax and the swearing of reality will not help here. The proposed changes will lead to an apparent increase in Poles' income. Nominally many people will get more, but filmed in recent months and expected for the next year inflation will make real Poles feel no improvement. Throwing the costs of increasing the burden for consumers of goods and services - this will make the spiral even more inflationary. Expanding the gray zone. After all, today the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, instead of introducing simple, transparent and friendly solutions for entrepreneurs, explains how to avoid paying taxes. Restrictions on entrepreneurship are a natural consequence of the above arguments. It is also clear that the changes in the tax system proposed in the programme of Poland mean that for local government units it is necessary to carry out a full range of tasks with very limited financial possibilities. It is a denial of the principle of subsidiarity, a denial of the idea of self-government, which is at the heart of the political state of Poland. To conclude, the Jarosław Gowin Agreement will not support the proposed law. This would be an expression of extreme irresponsibleness and disrespect for the principles on which we have been building Poland together for many years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u334	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, on behalf of the Kukiz Group15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to stress that due to the limited speaking time, I will present the position of the Kukiz Group15 - Direct Democracy on the most important regulations contained in the very comprehensive draft law amending the Act on personal income tax, print No. 1532. First of all, I would like to point out that raising the tax-free amount to 30,000. PLN is the implementation of the Kukiz15 proposal, which materialized in the last term. We've put together a specific bill. We are very pleased that this idea will now be implemented. At the same time, we hope that this regulation will cover all taxpayers in the future. In addition, we strongly welcome the changes in the second tax threshold to the amount of 120 000. Evil, which many environments have been seeking for for a very long time. A positive assessment also deserves a reduction in the amount of the health contribution, or initially assumed, in simplification from 9% to 4.9%. the basis for the dimension of the contribution. But we're paying attention. on a minimum corporate income tax issue. The very idea of introducing income tax to reduce aggressive tax optimization and transfer of profits abroad is right and expected. However, we pay attention to low-margin companies whose business model, despite large revenues, does not generate a high profit. In our view, it is appropriate for the Minister of Finance to consider additional exemptions in this respect, perhaps at the stage of Senate work or at the time of the forthcoming revision of the legislation. Otherwise, there will be an increase in prices of many products, which will ultimately translate into an increase in inflation and costs passed on to customers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u336	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Agnieszka Chasing on behalf of the Polish Case Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill we're investigating is an element of the so-called. Unfortunately, it is a collection of often contradictory ideas, whose aim is not to simplify and rebureaucratize, on the contrary - imposing new administrative obligations on the most active group of citizens - Polish entrepreneurs and highly qualified workers. It's a bit like Swiss cheese: it's big, it's huge, it's 600 pages, but it's got holes all over it. This is certainly not a fundamental change that entrepreneurs and experts have been calling for for for years, i.e. ordering and simplifying above all tax law, because the very volume of this law proves this. What else would it be to process it in substance if you had honest intentions - just divide it into certain elements that each of us has a chance to talk about here for just a few minutes, and it is extensive, and the point is that we should rationally agree with those involved simply to debate these elements. Where there is an increase in taxes - an increase, where there is a reduction - a reduction. On the other hand, it is sold on several slides, which refer only to reductions, and unfortunately under all of this, in this Swiss cheese there are many things that are related to the real increase in taxes. We don't know what the purpose of this bill was. I have already told you about this, a little confusing process system, but I also think that it will provide the budget with a lot of resources in the short term, as in the case of what we have been talking about today - about 80 billion budget revenue - but in the long term it will create a very large space to combine, to circumvent the law, which will result in an ever smaller budget impact. What if, for example, what smarter entrepreneurs will just start to transform into companies from o.o. And they're not gonna get paid at all because that's okay? If they don't get paid, they won't pay any contributions at all. Not much of it, there will be a problem with collection, because the company itself, as its name says, with limited liability simply has less responsibility. It's not just the country, but the contractors will also have problems with the debt collection. Such examples could be multiplied, but I think all this will prove to you the fantasy and organizational cleverness of Poles who will show you where the holes in this big cheese are. The promotion of this is based on false claims. First of all, you tell people that entrepreneurs don't pay or pay small health contributions at all. No, that's not true. They pay health contributions because they also pay health contributions for the employees they employ. That's the most important thing, that's the truth, not saying they don't pay much. They tend to use private health services themselves most often. You say those who make money pay less taxes. No, they pay more taxes: they earn more, they pay more taxes. They also pay taxes on their employees, create jobs, so they drive the economy. Ladies and gentlemen! Large corporations They will cope with your various tax plans, as they have dealt with over the years. All the more so because you're doing it in such a complicated way that they actually have a chance to hire major law firms and they're gonna do it all. On the other hand, it will certainly affect small Polish companies that have to face this uneven competition. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u338	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. You are the first question asked by Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, as we are two hours behind schedule, I will simply turn off the microphone in a minute. I'm sorry in advance, but we need to make up time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u339	Mrs. Marshal! [[For such a bill, so many articles...]] But why are you yelling again? Mr President, please, time is running out. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When we talk about wallets of Poles, indeed the most important issue is to pay attention to the absolutely anti-social climate policy of the European Union, because when the United Right for the vast majority of Poles, for millions of Poles lower taxes, the European Union in its climate policy imposes electricity and heat giant parataxes in the form of so-called. the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. Ladies and gentlemen! Since January 2022, Poles have been waiting for increases for electricity by 20% and for heat in some local governments up to 40%. This is the fault of EU policy, and let us remember that the face of EU policy is none other than the representative of the party whose head is Donald Tusk, the European People's Party - Germany, the head of the European Commission. [[Voice from the room: Bullshit.]] In order to protect the wallets of Poles, it is necessary to revise climate policy and decisively cut off from the anti-social policy of Timmermans (The Bell)... Thank you. ... European People's Party and Donald Tusk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u340	Thank you very much. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The rapporteur suggested that the opposition wanted to delay the work on the Polish Ład. This is obviously not true, and as proof I will quote the opinion of the independent Legislative Office of the Sejm, which fell during the work of the committee: None of the people working on this project was able to read and analyse this project in its entirety, which is why it is not possible to have a full legislative analysis. The material requires further legislative work. Government Legislative Center Nor has it carried out a legislative evaluation of the project. Despite our sincere desire and our utmost care, we cannot guarantee that the rules will be properly designed. I have a question for the government. How, then, is this recipe to be read and applied by an average entrepreneur - small, small from local Poland? I think you will advise these entrepreneurs to read the Polish Order from today and, together with the president, you will announce the national reading of this Polish Order. What should be the procedure for passing such a law? Then I will quote to you your Prime Minister of March 2015, who then wrote to the Civil Development Foundation... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u342	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome. Thank you very much, Member. Mr President, please come to the podium. [[Applause]] I warned you, Member. Please leave the podium. You're making it difficult for us to conduct our deliberations. Time's ticking. [[Applause]] Mr President, are you asking a question? [[Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we work on the project. This is the legislative culture.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project has gathered overwhelming opinions, and yet it is pushed by a government that claims that it is a great solution, and everyone will make money. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how it is possible that the PiS government claims that from the over-developed budget it gives tens of millions of zlotys for health care, while at the same time dramatically and radically raising the health contribution of all working Poles, referring to the penetrating health budget. If it is so good, why does the government want to take their money away from Poles when we have the highest inflation in Poland for 20 years, and the Prime Minister has no idea how much a loaf of bread costs in Poland? At the same time, which is embarrassing, the Prime Minister finds 30 billion PLN in the budget to say in a moment: sorry, Poles, I was wrong, but there is 80 billion PLN. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is embarrassing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u344	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. And I would like to remind you from the Platform that during the period of your government, you have been unable to allow questions at all during your second reading. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear, dear.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u345	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! In the capital of my constituency, in Pile, last week I was retired and asked: Mr., why I, who served in the Polish Army for several decades and have a pension of more than 2,5 thousand. zł, am I classified today by the rulers in the second sort? I promised this gentleman that I would repeat this question during today's debate. Minister! Why is a pensioner serving in the Polish Army for dozens of years thrown by you on the basis of this project into a worse sort of pensioners and as a reward for his hard work and service, exceptional work, because the service in the Polish Army, will be classified into the second sort and will pay tax for the rest of his life? On behalf of this gentleman today, I am asking you to address this question in substance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u346	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u347	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think that today every Pole has to stick to his wallet because this organized group on the right, which is ruling today, is looking for victims. And unfortunately, these wanted victims will be all Poles. First of all, it's gonna be another boost to the cost, second of all, there's gonna be companies... The tax system will be so complicated that it will be difficult to deal with this without expert advice. Of course, this is also about the local community, that is to say, each of us, because this is going to hit the revenue of local governments. The problem is that today, indeed, any or some of the citizens can gain this additional PLN 20.30 to pay, but unfortunately they will pay PLN 100.150, and it is about money from the wallet, for daily shopping, for services, because this will result in this so-called. It's okay. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Sroka, Agreement. Minister! If the price of the product is added to the amount of 5% to 10% tax, is the price going to rise or fall? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u348	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Sroka, Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u349	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The agreement from the beginning said that the proposed tax changes are extremely detrimental to most societies. If the proposed changes are made, we will have to deal with costs. Every citizen will feel this price. The introduction of these changes after fasting will destroy the middle class. The government is talking about a historic tax reduction, and it's exactly the opposite - it's going to be a historic tax increase of almost 30%. Today, we learn from social media that an amendment will be introduced to protect those conducting business clearing on the basis of a tax card, their relief. [[Not on the card.]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, what about linear taxes, those who account for themselves by paying linear tax? You're starting to act irrationally. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. Those proposals were our...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u350	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Polish Affairs. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u351	Minister! It's a substantive question. With all this haste, you forgot about an important group of people with disabilities, employed in occupational activities, protected workplaces. There's a fund in each of these establishments that pays for rehabilitation, medicine. It's made out of tax records. The increase in the tax-free amount will deprive these funds of funds. Does Poland have an alternative source of funding for such an important source of treatment and rehabilitation of people with disabilities? Did you really in a hurry to create this right simply forget, among others. With tens of thousands of jobs like this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u352	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Richard Galla, independent. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u353	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the relief for the middle class, but President Kowalczyk has already warned me, I think, knowing my question. He said that the self-employed would indeed also be relieved. That's good, because you know that many self-employed people have just been pushed out by employers into self-employment. An example of this is even my wife, who had just worked for a job contract and was then pushed into self-employment. However, I would also like to ask about the future of small, family, sometimes single-member companies in the context of the law that we are investigating, or, more broadly, the Polish Order. What will this bill have to do with the future of these companies? We know that self-run companies today are very hard to accept this bureaucratic barrier. What will be the result? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. Isn't it really going to be that entrepreneurs are going to try to liquidate their... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u354	Thank you. Mrs Dominika Chorosińska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the amendment I tabled, which has been misjudged. It was suggested that I take something because I reported a relief of $1.5,000. PLN for single parents. This is one of the preferences offered by the Polish Load. All families will benefit from the Polish Lada. I'm making another amendment. This is a solution that will further support single parents. The aim is to make it possible to deduct the newly introduced relief not only from the tax paid but also from the social and health contributions paid. Under an increased tax-free amount, this is a very important support for single parents who are in the most difficult material situation that might not be able to deduct relief. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u356	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skibińska, Civic Coalition. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mrs Leszczyna, please do not shout from the benches. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u357	Mr Sibińska, your marshal. Sibińska, I'm so sorry. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I have a question for the rapporteur of the committee, Mr President. Mr President, if you are talking about what happened at the committee meeting, do it honestly. We didn't want to postpone the committee meeting. We wanted to postpone it so we could invite the professionals, [[Applause]] experts who have run out of time. We asked for it. You wanted to go over the bill immediately, immediately. Fortunately, we asked and you let the social side speak. Not a single good word about this law on the part of the community has come up. Really, it's worth listening to. You might have learned a lot of smart things. Too bad you didn't use those hints. ♪ In all the confusion ♪ I think you've even forgotten to discuss this law between the resorts, because the Minister of Labour and Family writes about people with disabilities. My predecessor has already mentioned it. You forgot about it, you skipped it, and I didn't hear you say you were gonna propose an amendment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, Member. We ask for people with disabilities, for PFRON and for occupational rehabilitation and activation funds. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u358	Thank you very much, Mrs Sibińska. Mr Adrian Zandberg. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u359	High Izbo! I have a question for the authors of this bill. Why exactly do you want to make it? There was supposed to be a big tax reform, and there's something that's hard to take seriously. It was supposed to be tax progression. Progression, as President Kowalczyk knows perfectly well, is simply not in this bill. You've withdrawn under the pressure of the liberals from the Law and Justice Club. I said no more arbitration. Arbitration will continue to be cost-effective, and your liberal clubmates are pleased to announce that they have won further reliefs and further privileges for taxpayers engaged in business activities. This is some kind of ogryzka, not actually needed reform of the Polish tax system. We have tabled amendments that put this bill back on its feet, amendments that restore its progressive nature, amendments that tax millionaires. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I just wanted to thank the only fair guy at the Law and Justice Club... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u360	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. Mr President, time is up, thank you very much. Please leave the podium. Mr Andrzej Grzyb. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With some resistance, I am returning to the issue of amending the law, which is, of course, related to the payment of income tax and consequently to the reduction of the tax revenues of local governments. The state, when presenting this project and the report, says that local governments will not lose because we are introducing investment subsidies. Why is it impossible to translate this investment subsidy into an increased tax write-off so that local governments can be sure of their income? [[Because they wouldn't have the poor.]] After all, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that every kind of subsidy makes the local government budget stiffer, does not give you the flexibility that is needed in the budget. With the changes that have just been introduced, local governments gain a completely different attitude of certain stability and predictability of their income. And I think this is a mistake that... I understand discretion, because with subsidies, you can always lead to discretion. This is a real mistake. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u362	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u363	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that this bill is very good. The most important amount - 16 billion PLN remains in citizens' pockets. This is the quality determinant of this bill. This shows that this is a very good bill. [[Applause]] Let us also remember that we are implementing the most important request, the 2015 request, the request of President Andrzej Duda, the demand of the environment of Law and Justice. This is about increasing the tax-free amount to 30,000. zł. In 2016, we increased this amount to 6.6 thousand. PLN, in 2018 we increased it again - to 8 thousand. zł. Today is the next, the last stage already. We're increasing the amount to 30,000. zł. What has the Civic Platform done for eight years? You increased the tax-free amount from PLN 3089 to PLN 3091 - by PLN 2. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u364	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform started fighting garbage contracts, covering them up to the minimum wage. As a result, less than PLN 9 million went to the FUS on a yearly basis and all those employed under the contract received a minimum pension guarantee. The PiS, which in its official rhetoric supposedly strives closely to protect the interests of the working, for 6 years, I will repeat, for 6 years has been unable to complete this reform and complete the cover-up. In return, it proposes that the current tax system be broken down by introducing new holes, imprecise solutions. How are small Polish companies to develop in this potential trap? How do citizens plan their lives? Why has there not been a complete reform on the composition of orders? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u366	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Maciej Necessary, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This reform has aroused great emotions from the beginning, and among these emotions was also hope, hope for justice, and after it really little remains, hope that the burden of maintaining the Polish state, education and health protection will not continue to rest in the vast majority on the shoulders of low and medium-earning workers, that this system will not continue to serve smart people and the richest at the expense of those who work honestly and pay taxes honestly. Unfortunately, after this hope of justice, there was nothing left. The will to fight the premium privileges for the wealthiest has disappeared, some new incomprehensible gaps and reliefs have emerged in the system whispered by the lobbyists. But we want to make this right: we propose an extension of the solidarity tribute introduced by Mateusz Morawiecki, so as to actually tax millionaires. 3% on revenues above 250,000. zł, 5% over 0.5 million, 9% over PLN 1 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's tax the millionaires... Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski... ...and let's not reach into the employees' pockets. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u368	... Law and Justice. And I ask the Member to wear a mask, Madame.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u369	Ladies and gentlemen! This is the tax revenue of local governments, where there is a great increase, this is the time when taxes were reduced, and when the state increased taxes, this is the hole, only this hole none of you wanted to compensate the local governments. Where was Mr Kosiniak-Kamish when he established the educational subsidy, his formation, in 1996, lowering these subsidies only to current expenditure? Why didn't he exempt local investment from VAT before? Couldn't he then? He could have done it. Why didn't you do it, set up this $30,000 tax-free amount before? Now it is done and it is a great success, but today, even if you wanted to introduce this VAT reduction, it would be difficult to carry out under EU procedures. That's why there's an investment subsidy. For local governments, ladies and gentlemen, we add PLN 11 billion and also guarantee that their influence will not be reduced. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, sir. And that's the effect of these actions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u370	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. I can't see. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u371	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poles are living better and better, Poles are living more and more prosperous and they all admit it, whether from the right hand or from the left, but it is not possible to say that Poles are living more and more joyfully and are more and more happy, because you are constantly scaring, you are still screaming and today a very good bill, a law which concerns among others. raising the tax-free amount, the tax-free amount, which has been criticised so many times by everyone, because it was the lowest in Poland and we just started to increase it in 2016, when there was already a higher amount in 2017. And this is where my friend talked about how that tax-free amount looked. All I can say is that in 2003 this tax-free amount was abolished at all. And you're looking for an argument against it. You're saying there's not enough time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And how much time did you need to... Thank you very much. ...enhancing retirement age... Thank you, Member. ...respectful PSL and PO? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u372	Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This Polish tax order of yours is really a pirate order, you rob and rob Polish micro-, small companies, of which there are nearly 700,000, as a spokesman for small and medium-sized companies with hard-earned money. 80 billion PLN, which is supposed to be paid by your health contribution, supposedly to health care, will not go there, because for this purpose you spend just 6 billion PLN. This pirate order of yours. it's actually an increase in tax from 19% to close to 25% for small Polish companies that have barely survived the crisis caused by the pandemic, and today the rulers like pirates are attacking their income, robbing them of their income on the pretext that this money will go to health care. Where they go, we don't know that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u374	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u375	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The debate on taxes from individuals is, among other things, a debate on taxes from individuals. 1% issue a personal income tax which taxpayers may allocate to a selected public benefit organisation. From this speaker last year, I asked you if the government was working on the possibility of sharing this 1%. tax on individuals to several organisations. You replied that yes, in the interpellation it confirmed that work and analysis are ongoing and that this year and the work results are not yet visible, at least in this bill. I would therefore like to ask: Is the government preparing a legal solution that will enable this 1% division for selected public benefit organisations? 14.9 million citizens, 907 million PLN. But in a year's time, two thousand... another one, when taxes are reduced (the bell), those receipts will be less... Thank you very much. ...so this division makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u376	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice. There isn't? In that case, Mr Janusz Silchoń, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u377	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project hits real estate market participants because it introduces the obligation to settle the so-called. private rental in the form of a lump sum - today we have a slightly different possibility - is also associated with the repeal of the right to depreciation of residential property also in the case of rental which is an economic activity, both for individuals and for CIT taxpayers. These changes will result in an additional increase in tax burden. This will be important, important implications for taxpayers' situation, because it will allow some of the charges to be passed on to tenants, i.e. the increase in rent, as well as the limitation on the availability of housing, because some people will not (the bell) rent, but will simply withdraw these properties. Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left. Where is the certainty of lawmaking? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Where is the respect for acquired rights? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u378	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u379	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There are worse and better solutions in the bill. The latter include the possibility of a partial deduction from the income of the trade union membership fee. Strong trade unions are the best guarantee for the protection of workers' interests. In Poland, only a dozen percent of workers belong to trade unions. Low union, anti-worker law on collective dispute resolution, breaking strikes and by private business, and by public authorities as at the last strike of teachers - all this affects that the Polish economy is still largely based on cheap labour in 2021. In such a situation, any encouragement to join unions is enjoyable. 300 zł deduction is a good step, but the amount entered in the Act on rigidity will be an increasing incentive year by year. That is why I ask whether the State and the Government will support the Left amendment (The Bell) so that the amount that can be deducted increases with the minimum wage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u380	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u381	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since the presentation of the Polish Łódź, there have been many assurances from the government that the so-called. Polish Load will pay off to Poles. You've been driving all over the country, telling different social groups how their lives are going to improve. Well, then I'm asking you to be specific. How much will a doctor earn on the Polish Lodz job earning 7 thousand. gross zloty? According to my calculations, 0 PLN. How much a retired miner loses after 30 years of working with a pension of 5,000. Gross? According to my calculations, he will lose 10 zlotys a month. How much will a shopkeeper lose on a linear tax that has 7,000. Evil? He'll lose 300 zlotys a month. How much does a Rzeszow programmer lose that makes 10,000 dollars? PLN per month, which is also accounted for on a linear basis? He'll lose $400 a month. And finally, how much for (The bell) of the Polish Lodz will lose the budget of the city of Krosna? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u382	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u383	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It wasn't a bad project, and Minister Kowalczyk knows it. He wasn't angry until you started correcting him. Sami, your project. And it turns out he's gonna lose his middle class most of the time on this project. This is the group you wanted most to fight for. He will lose the average resident of Bydgoszcz, Inowroclaw, Tucholi, Znina. He's not gonna lose 10 zlotys, he's gonna lose a couple hundred zlotys a month. Another important group to which we all belong will be lost - local government officials will lose. They will lose in Tuchola, the Harvest, Inowroclaw and Bydgoszcz. They're gonna lose the money, the 11 billion, you want to reschedule for your own, on special terms, where you rule, where your right hand is ruled by President Kaczyński. It's not fair in this bill. It's supposed to be progressive, and there's no progression. Tax-free amount is a good solution, but it is not enough to support the bill (the bell) and the bad law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u384	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u385	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Government must be commended for the precision that tax changes have been included on only 686 pages. The important thing is that it's all in one volume, so it'll be easy to find the right recipe. I know he doesn't like economists and tax advisors, but they're just a fraction of the percentage of society. The important thing is that any average elementary school graduate after 600 hours of religion will have no problem understanding these rules and choosing the right algorithms for himself if he doesn't escape abroad before. However, the greatest advantage of this new law is the speed of its procession. Without discussion, without consultation, with broad public consultation, even without the Church's question of opinion. This haste will soon be felt on our skin, because what's more, but paying taxes won't miss anyone. By filling out the PIT, you'll know who to thank for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u386	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition. There isn't? In that case, Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u387	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What you call, Minister, the Polish Ład, has nothing to do with the order, nor with the Polish one, and the name is more appropriate: the Russian order. Why? Because you recreate Bolshevism because you take away those who take matters into their own hands from transformation, entrepreneurs, creative people, people who build Polish prosperity, Polish GDP. Yes, it is Bolshevism, because, as, Minister, you will explain that on this supposedly Polish Łady will lose 300 PLN a month an entrepreneur from Cieszyna running a shop, paying linear tax, about 7 thousand. zł or programmer from Bielsko-Biała earning 10,000. zł per month and paying linear tax. He'll lose $400 a month. [[It's already been done.]] How do you explain that? The responsible authority takes care of all citizens, not just its own and not just those who vote for them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u388	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u389	Dear Marshal! In 60 seconds. 700 pages, 13 hours in committee as a committee member and then an empty wallet, an empty wallet for the pensioner. $30,000. - amount free, 9% - Health contributions paid, inflation - rest. And there's a little money left. And there's really little money left. What do you leave in this bill? The acquisition fund of the checker. That means you're either going to walk around and control the mechanics or you're going to do that to get the service out of him so he can pay the penalty. This can't be right. Checking acquisition. For this there are PLN 24 million. One of the Members said that unfortunately we have a problem with the climate. For six years, you've been bringing in Russian coal. You haven't done anything about the climate in six years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These six years are wasted time for Poles. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Member. Pick up those coins. I'm just gonna pick up the change. [[Voice from the hall: This is respect for the Polish currency.]] That's right, that's respect for the Polish currency. You wouldn't throw a Euro like that. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I forgot... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] But the money's still there.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u390	Step out of the podium, Member. You're out of time. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u391	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! That's all yours. New Deal This is unfortunately one big fraud, because you give one hand, tax-free amount, higher tax threshold, and that's good, but with the other hand you take the same money and steal from Poles. For what else is the increase in health contributions or the elimination of health benefits? And who's that hitting? It hits mainly Polish entrepreneurs, and it hits Polish entrepreneurs, who are badly beaten after all these last lockdowns, who also live in the perspective that they do not know if there will be a new lockdown, in those Polish entrepreneurs, which banks often refuse at the moment because of what happened, loans. What will be the result? Such that in companies there will be mass redundancies, that some of these Polish small family companies will simply not survive it. In addition, of course, you complicate the tax system. A linear tax may not pay off. You're downloading 80 billion zlotys from Poles to health care, but you're only giving away 7 billion. I'm asking you what you're gonna use the rest of the money for. On TVP Info? [[♪ The bell ♪]] On Radio Maryja? For the new Ostrołęka? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u392	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Isabella Leszczyn, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u393	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In fact, the dispute over whether this whole New Deal is a tax reduction or an increase in taxes has clearly been settled by the rapporteur. Mr Kowalczyk said that the Income Tax Act had to be adopted one month before the end of the tax year, and therefore no public hearing could be held or anything extended. You should've been in jail for 13 hours. Almost none of you knew what you were debating. Legislating office barely. [[Voice from the room: We act according to the law.]] Mr. Speaker! You told the truth, you just forgot to say that this rule only applies if the tax change is detrimental to the taxpayer. And that clearly means that what you're doing is detrimental to taxpayers. [[Applause]] That's why you had to hurry. Thank you so much for telling me the truth once. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u394	Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u395	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The whole New Deal is based on nothing but another profound division of society. It's not just LGBT anymore, it's not just doctors and different classes. Now you're going to be middle class. It's very easy to develop negative emotions for people who live a little better or drive a better car. That's what your propaganda will be with us in the coming months. It was good in Janosik or Robin's day, but I don't know if it's now. It's not social justice to rob some to give to others. The Polish middle class is simply too poor, but it consists of people who work damn hard, holidays-fives and Sundays, sometimes after 11 hours a day, often without holidays, almost never getting sick. It's a class that's been making this country grow for years. It's a class of people giving jobs to others thanks to their work, living on the verge of economic viability. In particular, many of us experienced the time of pandemic very painfully. On the other hand, a social layer is being built entirely dependent on state aid. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the record, I am in favour of helping people who are in a difficult material situation because of no fault of their own. But with the new PiS order, you want to build a class... Thank you very much, sir. ...people living at the expense of the state and being loyal at the same time... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u396	I'm sorry, sir. I'm sorry. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Ms Katarzyna Osos, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u397	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I can't believe that someone is consciously preparing laws that complicate the tax system and that hit businesses so hard. In entrepreneurs who are the flywheel of our economy. This is not about big international corporations at all, but about small and medium-sized enterprises. You hit specialists who make good money. They earn money because their knowledge and experience are valuable for the development of our economy. Without these people, we cannot talk about a competitive or innovative economy. These changes, which is highly likely, will result in a decrease in investment opportunities of Polish entrepreneurs. Moreover, as entrepreneurs themselves say, some of these burdens will be passed on to customers and will increase the cost of services. We're all gonna lose on these shifts indirectly. Big request, stop treating people active, entrepreneurial like smart guys. By finishing the middle class, you are really finishing Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u398	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u399	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Hurry up. And you could agree or not, but see what the CUS publishes. The CSO has published data on extreme poverty. And unfortunately, there's no reason to be happy here. There has been an increase in extreme poverty in 2020 compared to 2019 data: in a group of families with 4.2% up to 5.2% 1 percentage point in the group of children up to 1.5% during the year, year to year, in a group of seniors about 1%. Ladies and gentlemen, most families will not benefit from this great benefit of 30,000, although they have high hopes. I'm afraid of how much disappointment it's gonna be. I'm surprised you guys don't think about it. And the second point: investment. Tell me, Minister, if the investments increase, as you spend a year, there are seven agreements (the bell) with investors. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u400	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u401	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think you're okay with this high inflation, because the government has more money at its disposal because Poles pay more for products and services, and then you can spend that money on some things that later turn out to be cases that have been thrown into the mud. But what I'm trying to say is, with these changes, you're making entrepreneurs get in their pockets. And I don't know if you're aware of what an entrepreneur like you will do, who has higher business costs. It will transfer these costs to customers, again on the prices of goods and services. The more you will contribute to the fact that prices will go up. You can say what's on the horizon: a dozen percent increase in gas and electricity prices. I mean, it's gonna hit the entrepreneurs, too. And in general, this system you're introducing is unfair. Why, Minister, do you exclude those who pay a linear tax from a tax-free amount? Why do you exclude (the bell) from the mid-class relief of those on contract orders? Answer that question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u402	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u403	Mrs. Marshal! I have such a fundamental doubt about the philosophy that you have in mind when it comes to economic policy, because you think that the most important thing is to give the Poles money. You neglect public services, disregard needs in such important areas as health care, education, housing. I mean, all these programs are down. The effect is that yes, this pensioner will have maybe PLN 100.150 more per month, while he will have to pay more for medical services, he will have to pay or his children will have to pay for additional classes at school, young people will pay higher rates for example. For rent. You are completely neglecting this and forgetting that people need important social services as well. Mr Kowalczyk! There's one more point for you, sir. 2,5% above the inflation target means an additional 25 billion (Bell) loss of purchasing power by people. How does that get to 16 billion? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u404	Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u405	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The biggest problem in public finances in your governments is the instability of tax regulations and the lack of prior information on planned changes. Now they're getting ready for another one. You have tabled an amendment to the Polish Tax Code regarding the minimum tax on income. Neither in the seym print No 1532, nor in the Polish Load project itself there are exemptions which would indicate that the new tax applies to large corporations. There are no limits on revenue, turnover, balance sheet totals above which a minimum tax would be charged. But there are exemptions, which include among others. power or mining companies. I ask you to answer the question: What was the direction, excluding energy and mining companies from the newly emerging tribute? So will Poles be able to expect compensation for constantly rising electricity prices? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u406	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the left-wing club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u407	High Izbo! Tax reform is needed. Nowy Ład was supposed to eliminate an unfair system, which in Poland is placed on the head. In the European Union, it is normal and accepted that those who earn much pay higher taxes, those who earn little, pay lower taxes. In Poland, a nurse pays a higher tax rate than a millionaire. We are in favour of tax justice on the Left, which is why we were ready after the first announcements to support the solutions you have proposed, but unfortunately something very bad has happened from the moment we announced the project in the Sejm. Everything's been put on your head. The government apparently succumbed to lobbyists, because there's not much left of tax justice in New Lada, if anything at all. For this there were reliefs for the richest and more privileges for the millionaires. Who knows what else will appear during the work in the Seym. Which is why I have a question: When are you going to show a list of lobbyists who have been dating the government and won all these reliefs? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u408	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Jan Sarnowski to answer his questions. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u409	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I would like to stress very strongly: the project we are talking about is a project that provides for a historic tax reduction in Poland. This is really minus 16.5 billion PLN for the public finance sector. The number of beneficiaries is 18 million. [[22.]] 22. Thank you so much for reminding me. These are people who either benefit or they don't lose. What, on the other hand, is the modern tax system? As I mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, the modern tax system is a system in which there are no significant differences between the level of taxation of persons who do the same work for the same money, but do so on the basis of a different kind of contract. What will be implemented by the laws amending taxes within the Polish Government, is a very important step towards equalizing these differences, this is a step that has not been able to afford the legislator or the government for almost 20 years. This is the first very important reform in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen! Will the tax system become fair from day to day, from January 1st? No, but it will become much fairer and a huge number of anomalies will be eliminated, which now make our tax system distinctly different from other tax systems not only globally among other countries of the Northern Hemisphere, but even in our region. [[Will he be progressive, Minister?]] He'll be more progressive than he is now, and he'll definitely be better. We already know that this will be a great step in a very good direction. [[Will it be progressive?]] Ladies and gentlemen! There have been a lot of questions about pensioners. Once again, the most common pension in Poland is 2500 PLN. For such a pensioner who gets 2500 zlotys per month, changes in total taxes and premiums will mean de facto 2000 zlotys more per year, i.e. an additional pension. You're laughing at how much... [[But you're taking a health contribution.]] Together with the health contribution, honourable Member, after all the changes in the tax and contribution wedge have been made. This is a change. Almost 10%, these are additional measures. You are laughing that this will help the pensioner in the amount of PLN 100.200 per month. On the other hand, for a person with a pension of PLN 2,000,2500, because the average pension of a woman this is approx. 2000 PLN, and the average pension for a man - almost 3000 PLN, that is definitely a great relief and considerable relief, felt immediately, from the pension he will receive next January. [[No one's denying it, but they're gonna pay more for their services.]] Of course. And now I am. Who's gonna pay more? 90% Retired people will benefit from these changes. The loss of more than PLN 200 per month will concern approx. 3 promoted pensioners, practically minimum. You really need to spend a lot of time trying to find a pensioner or invent a situation in which the increase in the burden will be significant or felt at all. For employees 67% it will benefit from changes, it is almost 8.5 million people. 20% employees will not feel any change. The increase in tax-related issues in total will be felt only by less than 3% employees. The changes we are talking about are positive, positive and, most importantly, expected by the vast majority of workers and pensioners. What is the situation with entrepreneurs? There's as much as 40% here. entrepreneurs will pay lower taxes as a result of our changes. Other companies will be able to use the entire catalogue of tax changes that benefit them. All of you asked for investment. There is no project shown by any policy option that would provide for a systemic change towards facilitating the investment process, so that there is more resources and that investments are cheaper for entrepreneurs. This kind of program was first presented - for the first time in 30 years, since the modern tax on income from individuals and legal persons in Poland - just in May as part of the Polish Łódź package. R &amp; D relief with IP Box relief, robotics relief, employment relief for innovative workers, admission relief, consolidation relief, final relief for domestic and foreign expansion. These are solutions tested in many countries of the west of Europe, solutions that are a secret, which is behind the excellent economic development of Asian tigers, solutions tested for 30 years in the Far East and for several years, in some cases even for 20 years, in other countries of the west of Europe. Now this modern tax system aimed at supporting investment will also be in force in Poland. Can tax tools force entrepreneurs to invest? Definitely not. On the other hand, entrepreneurs already have certain investment expenditures that they plan to incur next year. Tax changes, making the entrepreneur have more investment resources, but also making investments cheaper for the entrepreneur, will make the implementation of the company's investment, innovation much faster. Instead of buying two or three industrial robots, the entrepreneur will be able to buy four or five. Ladies and gentlemen! Many questions arise about the complexity of the tax system. I would like to stress that questions about whether the tax system should be simple or whether it should respond to the specific situation of the trader concerned are old questions like taxes. It is Poland that makes it possible for every entrepreneur, regardless of the size of his business, to decide whether he wants to benefit from the most simplified forms of taxation, a lump sum from the revenues of registered and Estonian CIT, if he is a larger entity, whether he wants to use solutions that are very precisely tailored to the form, industry and the risks associated with his business activity, i.e. the ordinary rules, but also from the whole wide catalogue of tax reliefs, pro-investment discounts, which will appear on the Polish market for the first time. Thank you so much for your attention. All other questions will be answered in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u410	Thank you very much, Minister. The committee rapporteur, Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, also asked for the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u411	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, I will not respond to these demagogical speeches like: you rob, pirates, assault Poland, take money, thieves, etc., etc., it does not deserve any comment. I think it's a little ridiculous to bring in hundreds of bills. President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish came here with the bill. But as far as the point is concerned, he didn't ask for a precise calculation, and he says that if someone has 4,000 zlotys of earnings, he's gonna get a zloty. No, it's 114 zlotys, and it's worth counting, really. It will gain PLN 114. I know what the Professor means, of course, that all profits will be lost anyway, because they're gonna cost public services. Only that public services cost money because labour costs are rising. That's mostly it. This is our cost of pursuing the European average. How can public services not be expensive if every service provider, hairdresser, locksmith wants to earn as in Germany, Austria? It's natural that services cost money. [[Applause]] This is our cost of going to the European Union, to those average earnings in the European Union, and this has nothing to do with taxes. Public services have always been expensive, but in your day no one thought to give people tax relief. The fact that public services are expensive is a fact, but the most important thing is that average wage, minimum wage increases much faster than service costs. That's the most important thing. [[Applause]] This income stays in your pockets, it's much higher than it was before. It's a creature. Let us compare these two things, not taxes and prices of public services. Indeed, there were exceptionally many voices of people who shed tears over entrepreneurs. I assure you that after the implementation of this amendment the entrepreneur up to 13 thousand, or maybe in some cases - linear tax - a little less... There's always a choice of form of taxation. Nobody tells anyone to be on a linear tax. Each trader chooses the form of taxation which he considers most appropriate, beneficial. Either he chooses to settle on a general basis and behaves like the other citizens on a contract of employment, or if he sees that this is more favourable - a flat-rate tax and if not - a linear tax. Everyone has their privileges right now. However, as I wanted to draw attention to, we have indeed not completely eliminated the degressivity of the burden. Here, full agreement with Mr Zandberg, with Mrs Beyat. That's right. But what does that say about this bill? On the one hand, we hear, of course, these voices were much more... [[Voice from the room: We're killing the economy.]] ...that we burden entrepreneurs, the wealthiest, the less wealthy, but we do not look at relief and that more income stays in the pocket of the poorest, the poorest. Mr Zandberg says: you stopped halfway, you had to cut to the bottom, those richest should pay, you must completely eliminate the degressivity. These two voices show that it is indeed not a perfect system, but it is a compromise system that implements what has now been possible. You put money in taxpayers' pockets; the biggest one is given to those who earn the least, a little smaller - middle class, because here only through the relief system. But indeed the tax burden on the wealthiest is growing a little bit. This is a system that is not entirely fair - but probably just taxes we can dream of, as well as justice in this world will probably not be fully achieved - but this is a compromise. These voices show a good compromise, that it has been cut as far as possible at this stage. First of all, the measure of the entire tax system and this tax adjustment is, of course, that 17 billion remain in taxpayers' pockets. I say 17, because after these amendments made to the committee and here it will be complete 17. One more word of explanation. Mr Grzyb from the Polish People's Party... [[Don't teach the professor.]] For God's sake, if we're talking about introducing a larger share of PIT and CIT tax for local governments, let's think about who we want to give more money to. The richest local governments, because they actually have a large share in the PIT tax, are the richest. These groups are the least likely to lose. Let's think about rural communities, where really the main taxpayers of PIT are pensioners and farmers, which is actually not going to pay tax at all. You want to do a bigger copy, I don't know 60%, 70%. Whatever you do, it's from a little PIT... From zero, every percentage is still zero. And the big cities, the richest local governments, would benefit from it the most. Much fairer - and this should be supported and praised - is a system that compensates for expenditure in the form of subsidies. Not much, this subsidy corrects even the wealth of the commune. It's a system that we implemented at the previous session of the Sejm. Really don't get into this because local governments, especially rural ones, are just laughing at this solution you're proposing. [[Then make a self-government bill.]] I'm really meeting with local governments. Let's stop talking about things that are unrealistic or harmful to less affluent self-governments at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u412	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Zandberg. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u413	President Kowalczyk was gracious to say that the Left wants to cut to the bottom. No, Mr President, what we want is fair, progressive taxes. We made a moderate offer. Let me remind you: 3% over 0.25 million, 6% over 0.5 million, 9% over PLN 1 million. It's a very moderate progression, but any progression. And you, under the pressure of the neo-oliberians from your club and under the pressure of business, just chickened out and the chance for the necessary tax reform came out of a big nothing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u414	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! After how many years the government of Law and Justice increased the tax-free amount from PLN 3091 to PLN 30 thousand in the Polish tax system. Evil? Which the government had previously increased the tax-free amount for the lowest earning group up to PLN 6600 and then to PLN 8,000. Evil? Which the government has reduced in recent years the amount of PIT for the first tax group from 18% to 17%, i.e. relatively by about 6% ? After how many years, the Law and Justice Government raised the first tax threshold from 85 000. PLN up to 120 thousand. Evil? Which government declared in the election campaign the tax system 3x15% and actually increased VAT to 23%?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u416	Since during the second reading... [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] But the Member has not spoken and there has been nowhere to speak to the Member... [[Voice from the hall: What do you mean I didn't speak?]] No, sir. [[Voice from the room: I spoke.]] But no one has ever referred to you, I have not heard you, sir. [[Voice from the Chamber: Two names were said by Mr Kowalczyk.]] I'm sorry, I didn't hear that, so I can't... [[The voice in the courtroom: Marshal, for the second time, you can't hear what I'm hearing.]] Excuse me, sir, but I came in at the moment, the lead was given to me by Marshal Gosievska. She told me that the only motion for correction was made by Mr Zandberg. I'm sorry, but I didn't hear you say anything. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're welcome, sir. You're welcome if you'd like to speak now. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets and of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law and the Act on greenhouse gas emission management and other substances (prints Nos 1514 and 1553). I do not see Mrs Anna Paluch, who is the rapporteur of the committee. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 minutes 02 hours 19 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 8 of the agenda. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee. Member, please. [[Voice from the Chamber: Members of the House would like to move out of the Chamber...]] Member, please, we have been waiting for you in the gym. Gentlemen, I'd like to speak to you in the cockroaches.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u417	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Joint Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law and the Act on greenhouse gas emission management and other substances from print No 1514. The project entered the Sejm on August 30, 2 September was sent to these committees for their first reading. This took place on 15 September, after which the committees carried out detailed work on the project, which resulted in the report in print 1553 being presented here. The draft law implements the provisions, first, of Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2018/1135 of 10 August 2018 establishing the type, format and frequency of transmission of information to be made available by Member States for reports on the implementation of Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on industrial emissions. Secondly, it implements the provisions of Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2019/1741 of 23 September 2019 determining the format and frequency of the transmission of data to be made available by Member States for reporting under Regulation (EC) No 166/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a European Pollution Release and Transfer Register and amending Council Directive 91/689/EEC and 96/61/EC. The new reporting rules require Member States to report two separate reports. First, reports containing the identification data of industrial plants covered by Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on industrial emissions and Regulation 166/2006, which feeds the EU Registry established by Commission Decision No 1135 of 2018 referred to above. Secondly, the second report to be submitted by the Member State is an integrated report which contains data on releases and transfers of pollutants or waste and emission data from large combustion plants. Thus, Member States are also required to provide the European Commission with data on establishments which did not indicate that the thresholds for releases and transfers of pollutants were exceeded in the reporting year in question and only carried out at least one of those activities set out in Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 166/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a European Register for the Release and Transfer of Pollution. In addition, the new European Union legislation reduced the deadline for Member States to report to the European Commission from 15 months to 11 months after the end of the reporting year, and, following the amendment, the operators - and these are the standards that we introduce into Polish law - will report to the Regional Environmental Protection Officer on exceeding threshold values, as well as the data necessary to identify the plant by 31 March of the year following the reporting year. By 31 August of the year following the reporting year, the Regional Environmental Inspector will forward these data to the Chief Environmental Inspector. All these model reports, detailed data, technical conditions, form and way of transmission will be set out in the Regulation of the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. the climate for which authorisation is included in the Act. It should be noted here that Annex III to Regulation (EC) No 166/2006 is repealed in European legislation and the format for the transmission of data to the European Commission is laid down by Commission Implementing Decision. On the other hand, the article was repealed. 16 Regulation (EC) No 166/2006, which required Member States to submit 3-year reports on the implementation of that Regulation. This obligation to submit 3-year reports is removed from Polish legislation. High Izbo! All these changes in EU legislation are introduced into the Polish legal order just discussed here by me draft law. In addition, print project 1514 refers to criminal rules concerning the timely fulfilment of reporting obligations by national entities. The penalties currently in force are disproportionate to the seriousness of the infringements. Currently, e.g. the administrative penalty for failure to report within the deadline on the National Register for Release and Transfer of Pollution shall be 50,000. zł, whether the delay was day, week, month or longer. On the other hand, the penalty for the transmission of incomplete, inconsistent or unreliable data is 5 000. zł, also regardless of the gravity of the infringement. The provisions of the bill discussed here eliminate these shortcomings in terms of non-balance of penalties and excessively severe penalties. The amendments to the rules on administrative penalties are as follows: first, a sanction shall be imposed for failure to provide identification data by the operator, i.e. an administrative penalty of 5 000. zł - this is a new penalty, because the obligation to provide identification data is a new obligation, but subsequent changes are already very in favour of the obliged entities; secondly, administrative penalties for delays in the transmission of data exceeding threshold values for releases and transfers of pollutants or waste will amount to PLN 200 per day of delay, but for no more than 365 days of delay this penalty can be charged, so the penalty will be proportionate to the seriousness of the infringements; third, there will be a penalty for not ensuring the quality of the data transmitted, which will be between PLN 500 and 5 000. zł, i.e. it will be possible to weigh this administrative penalty depending on the type of infringement and not preserving the proper quality of the data transmitted; fourthly, it will be possible to waive administrative penalties - this possibility has not yet been possible. High Izbo! The amendments to the national rules which result from the entry into force of the new provisions of European Union law are the following: firstly, the waiver of the deadline for the transmission of the report by GIOŚ to the European Commission; secondly, the shortening of the deadline for the assessment of the quality of the data transmitted by the operators, and the transfer of those data to the upper floor, i.e. the General Environmental Inspector; third, the abolition, as I have already mentioned, but for the sake of order, of the obligation to submit a 3-year report by the General Environmental Inspector to the European Commission; and fourthly, the obligation to provide identification data to the establishment in which the installation listed in Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 166/2006 is carried out, with information on the exceeding of the performance thresholds, whether or not the operator finds that the thresholds for releases and transmission of pollutants are exceeded during a given reporting year, are to be met by all establishments with adequate efficiency. High Izbo! The amendments proposed in this Act align national provisions with the revised European Union rules, but also allow for reasonable and fair treatment of entities required to provide information in this area. High Izbo! Art. 1 of the draft contains amendments to the Act - Environmental Law, Art. 2 in turn includes amendments to the Law on the greenhouse gas emission management system and other substances, Article. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 4 contain transitional provisions and Article. 5 provides that the law shall enter into force 3 months after the date of the announcement, i.e. the vacathio legis, is relatively long in order for all obliged entities to prepare for this. High Izbo! The Joint Committees: Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry and Energy, Climate and State Assets adopted a report on the draft law by 42 votes in favour, with no votes against and with three abstentions. Therefore, on behalf of both committees, I ask the High House to adopt the bill contained in the report of the Joint Committees in print No 1553. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u418	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wiesław Krajewski, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u419	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law and the Act on greenhouse gas emission management and other substances, print Nos 1514 and 1553. High Izbo! Regulation No 2019/1010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on the adaptation of reporting obligations in the field of environmental legislation and Commission Implementing Decision 2019/1741 of 23 September 2019 establishing the format and frequency of the transmission of data to be made available by Member States for reporting purposes has amended legal acts at European Union level. The European Commission has introduced new reporting rules requiring Member States to report two separate reports: a report containing the identification data of industrial plants covered by the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 on industrial emissions and Regulation 166/2006 laying down the type, format and frequency of information to be made available by Member States for reports on industrial emissions and an integrated report containing data on releases and transfers of waste and emission data from large combustion plants. In view of the above changes in legal acts at European Union level, which entered into force in 2019, there was a need to adapt Polish law to European Union legislation. The proposed government draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law and the Act on greenhouse gas and other substances emissions management system propose the introduction of rules to eliminate divergences between national legislation in the field of reporting on the National Register for Release and Transfer of Pollution and the rules at European Union level. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill submitted changes the field of reporting of the National Register for Release and Transfer of Pollution. The new solutions contained in this draft law will reduce the number of documents as a result of the removal of the obligation to prepare and report by the Chief Environmental Officer to the European Commission. The amendments to the draft law also concern financial penalties imposed on operators. The proposed amendments are fully in line with the current European Union legislation. Dear Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I make one amendment to this bill during today's reading. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the submitted government bill amending the Act - Environmental Law and the Act on greenhouse gas emission management system and other substances from seismic prints Nos 1514 and 1553. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u420	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. And please, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u421	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This law, I will no longer quote its long title on the actual reporting of EU emissions trading systems, should be a purely technical law which harmonises reporting rules. Since the initiator, the government, the ministry, did not show any particular creative solutions here either, I will talk more about what is not in this law, as well as what is, although it should be better and better done. There is certainly no proper legislation, because this law, which is not comprehensive, technical, harmonisation, nor does it specify these provisions in Poland, which would make them more effectively enforceable, nor does it make them well prepared. Unabundant law, and the whole list of amendments was already at the level of the legislative office and committee. The dialogue between representatives of the Ministry and lawyers, legislators of the Sejm are on the agenda. I think that's the problem. not only this law, this is in general a horizontal problem, which maybe the government should solve together with the Sejm legislators. Maybe they need some joint workshops on legislative techniques, maybe then they'll come to some common conclusions. And that's the first thing that's not in this bill, but that can be fixed in the future. The second point is that, on the occasion of this change, it was not really sought to rationalise and refine or modernise the rules on emissions trading. Just now, in this Chamber, on another occasion we have heard from Mr Kowalski, how the EU's emissions trading policy causes rising costs for Polish taxpayers and for those who already have to pay these electricity bills. Nothing more vicious. This EU policy - however we judge it, whoever has the right to judge it - generates revenue for the budget. Only this year it is estimated that it will be up to 30 billion, is planned over 10 that fall into this black hole. There's no money in this bill. Although the directives, the regulation and our law say that at least 50% must be allocated to climate policy, this money is not marked and it is unknown to spend it. Reporting creativity, for which they are intended, is far-reaching, among others. Tax reliefs are classified as those allocated to climate policy. It's really necessary to plan... It is not only about the importance of money, but also about drawing up a road map, for which it is really intended to be used systematically and systematically in climate policy. That's definitely what's missing. A call to make it happen in the future. The third thing that is definitely missing is moving forward when it comes to the emissions trading system in the context of, for example, the green order package, but also the Fit for package. 55, which provides first 100% the amount of funds from emissions trading for climate purposes, which must be more precisely defined. The second point is that the emissions trading system is expanding to include transport emissions and building emissions. There's no preparation here. I'm not saying that even at this point in time in this regulatory act, such a short... But there are no preparations in the future. At least there's no sign of him. The same is true, ladies and gentlemen, as the minister of the ghost is, among others. Constitutional Minister for Climate Affairs. With climate policy, we only have the word "climate" in the name of the ministry. Because, unless my memory is mistaken, the Minister has not once appeared in this House in this term of office - either at committee meetings or at plenary meetings. As is spectrum policy - climate policy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u422	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, referring to the words of my predecessor, it must be said in general that energy, climate is not our strong side. All these drafts are very often not in sync, and if they are, they appear at a committee meeting, it happens very often that they are thrown at a committee meeting and then the legislators have dozens of amendments to them. The Minister refers to those sitting next to him to answer the simplest questions of Members. These situations look really crazy. We're moving around the energy field in the dark and in total chaos. At the same time, we know that this topic is extremely important to us. It is extremely important because of what the European Union demands from us, and also because of the daily life of Poles and Poles, because the result of the lack of good climate and energy policy is, among others. huge price increases. This law is indeed a technical law, but even in its process, amendments were made during its process. These amendments were subsequently withdrawn. Even the people who were involved in this project said: well, no, then we withdraw this amendment, since you do not like this amendment. The Commission is becoming a playing field between individuals at a committee meeting, not to make it a right in a good, orderly way. What actually brings us in this legislation is that we need to adapt the law to EU requirements. It's the only way we move from one place to another in a very inept way. You can say that it really changes something, but this change is qualitatively very weak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u424	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u425	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This seems to be a rather simple amendment, because it is an amendment implementing some of the provisions that the European Commission has set up as a result of delegations in the directive and regulation to be introduced by the European Commission by means of an implementing decision. On the other hand, there are some provisions, some amendments to the rules that are of national rank. This is all about the change in two laws: in the Act - Environmental Law and in the Act on greenhouse gas emission management and other substances. This is the second law in which these changes take place. As far as environmental law is concerned, there are two implementing decisions here. In addition, one is from 2018. It establishes the type, format and frequency of information that Member States are required to make available in order to comply with the Industrial Emissions Directive. The second is the implementation of the 2019 Implementing Decision, which sets out the format and frequency of the data transmitted, which Member States are to make available in their reports in accordance with the 2006 Regulation, Regulation No 166 of the European Community on the creation of a European Register for the transfer of pollution. These responsibilities have been performed so far, but in a slightly different mode than those set out in the implementing decisions. Any operator of installations that is listed in the above mentioned above. a regulation which exceeds certain or fixed performance thresholds shall be required to transmit certain data to the Regional Environmental Inspector, in particular data on exceeding the emission threshold for the transfer of pollutants, as well as the transfer of waste. Such an entity should also include in this information all data that identify the operator of the business in whose premises the installations that carry out the emissions operate. In addition, those who make changes to existing installations - whether they relate to renovation, exchange or service - were obliged to provide any data related to the installation, the operator. This is extremely important because these technical data are important for reporting obligations as well. This amendment also obliges the climate minister, as also mentioned by the rapporteur, to harmonise the system of data transmitted to the national register so that these data are comparable, transparent and complete. The amendment also introduces obligations regarding the timeliness and completeness of the information provided, and those entities which do not comply with it are at risk of sanctions, with a full rationalisation of the level of those penalties, which I absolutely agree with. On the other hand, the Law on the greenhouse gas emission management system and other substances adds the obligations resulting from the Implementing Decision establishing the type, format and frequency of information to be provided by Member States for the reporting and implementation of the 2010 Directive. And here, too, there is a procedure for the transmission of this information to the national centre to be configured and transmitted in order to make it available to the European Commission in connection with the implementation of the 2010 Directive. The climate and energy issues raised here in the debate, as it seems, may be difficult to implement within the environmental committee precisely because these issues have been separated. While the Committee on the Environment deals with legislation in this area, all that is related to climate and energy management, unfortunately, is dealt with by another committee. That's why I don't think it's a very fortunate separation. It would be desirable to return to full unity so that these matters are dealt with within one committee. And the other thing. I also share this view that the issue of discussion is the issue of the money paid for the purchase of emission allowances. It is about more than 80 billion PLN (The Bell) which have been put into the Polish budget in recent years, and not for energy transformation purposes. This, too, should be mentioned in the context of this law. To sum up, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives support the above mentioned. Proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u426	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u427	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Your Marshal, before I start talking about the bill, I would like to express my enormous surprise here in two words from this speaker. Well, we're working on a government law right now, and there's not a single government representative here. Of course, this is a committee report, but I would like to ask who will answer the questions that Members will be asking in a moment. It seems to me that one of my previous speakers, Gabriel Lenartowicz, spoke about the fact that the Minister of Climate does not appear in the Seym, does not appear at our meetings within the Parliamentary Committee, but the fact that there is not a single representative of the government during the examination of the government law already shows a level of disregard which cannot really be understood. I am the last in this part of the debate, and therefore my previous speakers and my previous speakers have already said exactly what this law is about. Of course, this is a bill that is needed. These directives, this implementing decision of the European Union, must be implemented. It is good that they will be implemented, because it is good that penalties will be proportionate, because it is good that these penalties will be imposed in a mode that will be a little more friendly and reasonable. However, in any case, two basic questions have been raised in this debate, I think. Firstly, it is a question of what is happening with the money that affects the Polish state's budget as a result of emissions trading, for which they are intended, why they are not intended for what should be intended for, i.e. energy transformation. And the second question is, when are we finally gonna start doing business, when are we gonna finally get ready for these emission thresholds to include trade... It is a question of transport or construction. After all, with regard to Fit for 55 - we already know it and it's really something that's on the table and what we have to do next. But first of all, I wanted to tell you that I feel in some way helpless towards my constituents, especially those young people who are going out on the street and protesting in the defence of climate, because we have already spent about an hour here, and we will spend a little more time talking about the technical law and such, I would say, quite obvious, but we still lack time in this House, in this parliamentary term, to talk about absolutely fundamental things. We should spend hours here talking about energy transformation. There are no magic wands here, although the PiS is trying to convince us that they are, saying that a nuclear power plant is about to come along, or that there's going to be some kind of CO2 capture plant. There's not gonna be anything like that. There are no magic wands. [[♪ The bell ♪]] defending and protecting the climate. We should talk about reducing energy consumption, about transport, about construction, about water management, about changes in agriculture, about biodiversity, about education. These are really topics that will not be waiting for us, and we are dealing with technical issues, and we are really spending a lot of time on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u428	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. Indeed, as you have noted, there is no representative of the Government in the Chamber, and I will therefore ask the Minister to answer all your questions in writing. Please, the first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u429	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, there is no government, which is an absolutely outrageous situation. The draft imposes obligations on the entities listed therein and will carry out the obligations imposed by the law. There should be a government representative here and answer our questions, because questions are about e.g. data quality and access to the system through which such data can be transmitted. I would very much ask that the Minister, who is not here today, explain in writing how the quality of this data will be defined because there will be penalties involved. Secondly, will there be training for those who will be obliged to fulfil these obligations? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u430	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski. There's no envoy. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, there is no government representative in this room. I would be very much obliged if your marshal could determine whether it was a random accident or if the Minister was protesting against the High House or if the Minister was protesting against his own government. Our government - at least its designated ministers - challenges the decision of the TSUE in connection with the Turov mine at international level. It undermines the ability of judges to rule and demands that they be excluded from ruling in the case of Poland. What does that have to do with this bill? This law gives certain inspectors the right to impose penalties on traders. So will this law give the Polish entrepreneur the right not to recognise the decision of the inspector? Will he be able to demand that the inspector be removed for lack of objectivity? Will the Polish taxpayer as well as the Polish minister be able to declare that he will not pay a penny of the penalty imposed because he does not recognise the decision of a specific inspector? I ask you kindly to answer in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u432	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u433	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In this discussion, it is worth mentioning that emissions trading and the cost of CO2 emissions and high gas prices lead to a very difficult agricultural situation with regard to nitrogen fertiliser prices. You can look at it. Urea costs 2800 PLN today. A year ago in the same month it was 1,600 PLN. The saltpeter cost $2,000 a year ago, it cost $900. The Azota Group today increased the price of urea by PLN 620. This is a very big problem, so when we talk about transformation and emissions trading, we also need to focus on the situation in agriculture. Some say farmers get very high prices when it comes to cereals. On the other hand, there is also a question of helping farmers in this difficult situation, and I am asking Mrs Fly for agriculture. In this way, the transformation of agriculture will not be carried out. That's why we're counting too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the opposition in the fight for Polish agriculture. We are counting on a wise vote against such judgments and against the situation of imposing penalties on Polish mines in terms of emissions and agriculture, and more specifically on issues related to the production of nitrogen fertilisers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u434	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u435	Mrs. Marshal! I just wanted to correct it. Mr President, so far no one is imposing emission penalties. [[Whose voice do you straighten out?]] You. [[But how can you straighten me out? ...like I'd mention your name.]] Excuse me, sir. Mrs... I'm the one who wanted you to know that emissions are not subject to penalties. [[I'm not ten years old for you to lecture me.]] I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. The Member has one minute to ask the question. You're welcome. [[...you will instruct me.]] Then read it to yourself. Mr... [[In what mode do you perform?]] I'm sorry. Then learn for yourself. [[Your culture and your upbringing.]] In view of the high revenues from emissions trading, I would ask in writing for a detailed report on the last 3 years - how it was spent at least 50% impact on this basis, broken down by category of expenditure. Then we'll see if, for example. they have been deposited to support agriculture in this area. I would also ask, in connection with the high emission allowance prices, for an estimate of expenditure of almost 30 billion (the bell) of this year's revenue.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u436	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u437	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! Mrs. Member! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about energy transformation issues. I think there are unauthorized charges in this courtroom. I would like to ask you about the implementation of the program, my current. How much more photovoltaic installations have been created since 2015? As I recall, in 2015 there were 4500 such installations, and today there are almost 0.5 million of them. Furthermore, I would like to ask how the government evaluates what is happening in the German energy market and what lessons we draw from this. Because I will remind you that this year's flaut in the North Sea has led to the fact that today Germany is largely drawing its energy simply from traditional sources, from fossil sources and not from so-called sources. Windmill power. Do we have any plans to counter the situation that the Germans have today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u438	Thank you, Member. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u439	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm here to see Mrs Lenartowicz. Of course, my speech referred to Mrs Fly, so perhaps my speech and reference to Mrs Fly's speech have been misunderstood. On the other hand, I also referred to the support of the opposition on the scale of emissions trading, on the scale of not imposing penalties on Poland, so I am surprised that you wanted to lecture me on this issue. Well, why don't you hit the table and the scissors will talk. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u440	Thank you very much. The minister is here. Since you weren't there, I promised Members that you would answer all the questions in writing. You're welcome, Minister Jacek Decoration.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u441	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I was remote because it moved, but I listened to all the questions and I'm in a hurry to answer them. Although the questions raised were not detailed on this amendment. You have to pay attention to the fact that this is quite technical. You're practically all aware of that. But there were some threads here that are important, and I feel obliged to answer them. As far as emissions trading is concerned, it is known that this is a subject that is already actually a subject of political fever in the European Union as a whole in the context not only of energy security, of costs, especially those related to EU burdens. This is indeed a challenge facing the whole of Europe at the moment, and especially due to the Polish energy system, heating is certainly a heavy burden for the whole sectors, and EU decisions unfortunately speed up these objectives. As regards this amendment, it is very technical, it concerns deadlines, reporting and how we will report to the bodies of the European Union. There were many threads here, Mrs Fly's proposal to extend to other areas such as households, transport. I don't think that's right. I am here in a double role, because I am also a Member and a person associated with the group, who has clearly warned from the beginning against what is the result. not only European policy, but also the spectrum of these proposals that are now on the table, the Fit for package 55, which is not advantageous for Poland. I have the impression that if a Member wants something like enlargement to other areas, such as: transport, households, are primarily thinking about high costs, so it is surprising to me that from this room there is a thread about actually calling for even more burden on the Polish transport sector, households, in questions about amending the reporting law. This is something that I'm sure is curious and disturbing, but fortunately, the United Right is ruled. Mrs April asked questions about the situation related to energy markets, the situation on German and Polish markets. What it looks like throughout the European Union. Poland is committed to energy security. Today we are witnessing a very difficult topic for us in terms of how the European Union, the EU and the EU, address the issue of energy security in the whole of Central and Eastern Europe. Unfortunately, Turów is an example of crossing not only good customs but also powers, an example of how we do not look at energy security of Poles. There is also a very specific subject. And yet, not far from Turnow we have other power plants, there is another mining of brown coal, and there is no such problem, and Polish energy would be punished, so we see that the European Union is unfortunately going in the wrong direction, which I hope will be corrected and we will be able to look at a Europe that will be energy safe in the future. It is the government of the United Right, this must be remembered, it cares about the safety of Poles, it cares about the final recipient, it cares about security in terms of sovereignty, because diversification of gas supplies such as Baltic Pipe, such as gasport, are examples of real actions which unfortunately our predecessors were unable to implement. Because extending contracts with Gazprom, the approach that it is addictive from other sources than those that are safe, was a policy that followed before 2015. We changed it, we put it as an argument, as a priority that we are pursuing. And I don't know what would have happened if the United Right hadn't won in 2015. [[You're in bigger trouble.]] The Member raises the scream. It's probably a cry of despair, actually regret about what you've been doing for two terms... [[What are you talking about?]] ...with you the former Prime Minister of the Polish People's Party, who, together with Donald Tusk, looked more at the eastern direction than on security issues. Today, the fact that Baltic Pipe is being implemented, the gasport is being realized, that we care about Polish raw materials, in order to protect the Polish economy from possible blackmail, is that today in the international arena it is Poland that raises arguments against Nord Stream II, that is the real policy of the United Right. Your genius, the European strategist, like Donald Tusk, which is why he was so important in the European Union... [[You should still learn from him.]] ...when he couldn't even stop Nord Stream 2. I understand you're going out in protest against Donald Tusk... [[I'm not leaving.]] ...who could carry out an anti-European project because he couldn't even say no. I'm asking you to calm down. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: He couldn't, and today you want this leader, I understand, to be the leader of your entire opposition, which is embarrassing. [[Don't insult me.]] Fortunately, there is the Government of the United Right and I can assure you that this amendment is typically technical. But these questions, which were here in this room, show that you're unrealized about something like energy security, you're unrealized about something like costs. You want high prices of electricity, heat, you really want this for Poles? Mrs Mucha spoke about transport... [[Voice from the room: What have you done for six years?]] Do you want the transport to be taxed, household? Why don't you go to your district and tell them you're gonna put some parataxes on your households? [[Voice from the room: Construction.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Construction.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u442	Minister, because I have indeed promised Members that you will answer the precise questions they have asked... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're welcome, my fellow Member. Minister, I would very much ask you to answer these questions in writing, because you did not answer these questions at the time. Please, rapporteur Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u443	Thank you very much. High Izbo! I will try to answer questions on the project procedure in a short way. Ladies and gentlemen, amendments have been made in the course of the work on the bill, but I would like to point out that this is the seymous stage of the work so that these amendments can be made. If there were no amendments to the Sejm during committee work, why should we meet, why should we listen to the voice of the social partners? That is why there is a seymous stage of work so that one can go back again, analyze, listen to different voices and make the best decision. That is why there are three stages of work: the first, the second, the third reading, to carry out this work accurately, reliably, with thought and to make such a law that will properly fulfil its functions. Questions have been raised from various people about what happens to the money that flows into the budget from emissions trading. Ladies and gentlemen, it is as if for the first time Members are in this House and have not had the opportunity to work on the budget report. After all, every time, how many times in heading 41 do we analyze the implementation of the state budget, on the revenue side there is money from emissions trading. Each year, there are 8 and 11 billion flows and then they are reflected in the analysis of revenue. Until a certain point, they have been on the matter of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, now they are on the side of the Committee on Climate, Energy and State Assets. There's an in-depth discussion going on. The representative of the committee shall attend the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and the work shall take place at several stages. I am simply surprised by these questions, because Mrs Mucha asked such a question as if she had been in Parliament for the first time. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to emphasise one more time... There have been a lot of charges here, but it is the government of the United Right, our government that has been affected, disproportionate to the size of the violation and the culpability of the sentence, has finally eliminated and has made them proportionate. This is the task of a responsible public authority to see how legislation affects the sector in which matters are normalized. We are the ones who, after many years of unjust, ill-advised and undeserved high punishments, have made them proportionate. And one last question, ladies and gentlemen, these intrusive questions about the Fit for program The 55 that Commissioner Timmermans is promoting. Not only in Poland do these ideas raise reasonable doubts, after all, before this program was announced, for 15 months there were protests of yellow vests in France. What were they caused by? The growing cost of living, the fact that people who are simply working are getting harder and harder to live, so I don't think that these issues, if they get more specific, will go so painlessly even in the rich West of Europe. All the more so, with greater attention and anticipation of the consequences of all these issues, we should be talking about what I encourage you Members in the opposition to do. Thank you for the vote of support. There's been an amendment, and we're gonna lean over it. I think it will be of general benefit for us to have a good, fair and non-injuring law in the field of the 1514 standard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u444	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u445	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project includes, inter alia, a change in the system of penalty payments imposed for infringements of the applicable rules. The current regulation in this area has not allowed the penalty to be fined depending on the time of delay. The introduction of an administrative penalty for each day of delay will result in the penalty being proportionate to the actual infringement. In view of the above, I ask you to answer the following question: What is the scale of litigation conducted in connection with the possibility of imposing penalties for infringement of the law? What is the total amount of penalties charged for 2020?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u446	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws (prints 1513 and 1565). I would very much like to ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u447	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ms Marshal of the Sejm addressed on 2 September this year a draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws, print No. 1513, to the Committee on Public Finance. The Public Finance Commission at its meeting on 15 September this year considered this draft law in detail. Following the discussion, the Public Finance Committee asks the High Sejm to adopt a bill attached to the print report No 1565. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u448	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first floor is taken by Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u449	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club with regard to the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. The original draft is in print 1513 and the committee report is in print 1565. The aim of the project is to include in the national legal order the necessary changes following the entry into force of European Union rules on capital requirements for investment firms, so-called. IFD/IFR package. It concerns the implementation of Directive 2019/2034 of the European Parliament and of the Council on prudential supervision of investment firms, amending also previous EU regulations in this area. It also concerns the implementation of Regulation 2033 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the same year on prudential requirements for investment firms, amending also previous EU regulations in this field. This legislation is another attempt to improve the functioning of the credit and investment area following the guidelines of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. The main intention of regulation is to define requirements for the protection of depositors, but also of all taxpayers, against the possibility of bankruptcy of credit institutions and loans in the event of a possible deconuncture. Investment firms are divided into three categories related to business scale and their mutual relations and capital links. The first category is the largest, systemically important companies. The second category is companies that do not generate systemic risk, but generate risks for customers - possible risks associated with bankruptcy. Finally, the third category is small and non-capitalised companies. Investment firms will be required to meet a fixed minimum capital requirement at any time. They will also have to have an internal control and monitoring system in relation to the capital requirements formulated. The proposed implementation requires changes in the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments, in Bank Law, in the Act on Pre-existing Lists and mortgage banks, in the Act on the Functioning of Cooperative Banks and in many other laws. The project offers opportunities for better regulation of credit and investment activities for two different quality institutions, with different business models and a different range of services offered. Once the new law is adopted and the appropriate prudential arrangements are taken into account, the administrative burden will be better aligned with the business. The regulation will avoid excessive costs which could jeopardise the viability of certain economic operators in this segment. The Law and Justice Club supports this project and requests that it be further examined. The regulations contained in the project do not affect the activities of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. By requesting further proceding and expressing a positive opinion on the government project, at the same time, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I make two additional amendments to your Marshals asking for their opinion by the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u450	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u451	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It has been my privilege to present on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club a position concerning the Act amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws, but it is impossible not to refer to the speech of the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, who insulted some prime ministers, but has no idea of climate policy at all. It's about Mr. Ornament. I would advise the Minister to learn a lot from Prime Minister Tusk. It was during the reign of the Civic Platform and PSL that an application was made to arbitration with Gazprom on the price of gas. The State boasted that the application was well prepared and the price was verified. The financial crisis between 2009 and 2010 under the PO-PSL regime, we went through without losses, without prejudice to the economy. During the reign of the PiS 6 years it is Russian coal, 6 years it is a lack of energy transformation, 6 years it is the closure of the power plant in Ostrołęka, 6 years it is penalties for the Turów mine, 6 years it is increases in electricity and gas prices. Now to the point, to this point of order. The law is the implementation of EU legislation: Directives and Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council. The aim is to create a single integrated regulatory framework for investment firms, brokerage houses, which minimises the risk of investment in the form of so-called. prudential rules. This will be verified through a supervisory examination and assessment of the activities carried out by the Financial Supervision Authority. It is the Commission for Financial Supervision that has a full responsibility with regard to the security and supervision of the trading of financial instruments. Within the meaning of the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments, the investment firm is either a brokerage house or a foreign investment firm and an investment firm from third countries. An investment firm before concluding a contract for the provision of a brokerage service with a professional client - because here the value of the issued shares has been increased - informs the investment firm about the treatment of professional clients who should be more experienced and able to assess the instrument and the possibility of submitting a request for treatment as a retail client and therefore more information obligations. The regulations concern three categories of professional companies, as the rapporteur said. The first category is investment firms of systemic importance - to minimise potential risks to the stability and proper functioning of financial markets. And this supervisory assessment should, in our opinion, be the greatest. The second category are entities that do not generate systemic risk but will be likely to present risks to the customer and should be subject to certain prudential requirements, inter alia. as regards capital. The third category is small entities with low risk. Recommended solutions include: initial capital, minimum capital requirement, capital risk assessment process, remuneration policies of management bodies, establishment of collegial supervisory authorities. Mr Janczyk has identified the other elements of this proposed solution. The Civic Coalition Club is in favour of this project. However, we hope, and this is a big one, because in the written submission to the committee's meeting the questions are either pointing out, or we really want these solutions not to endanger and cause the kind of scandal that occurred during the PiS regime, the GetBack scandal that has not yet been explained. More than PLN 2 billion of lost human money and impossible to recover until today, lack of interaction of the prosecution, lack of cooperation of the Supervisory Commission (the bell) Financial. These things shouldn't have happened. This supervision should be very professional and we hope that this solution will contribute to the fact that such irregularities, such incidents, will not be in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u452	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u453	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting our position on behalf of the club Lewis to the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. The aim of this project is to bring our national law into line with EU law on capital requirements for investment firms, and in this respect the main objective of the IFD/IFR package is to establish a new prudential regime for investment firms. The Act brings three main assumptions regarding the new prudential regime for investment firms. Thus, investment firms are divided into three categories due to their size and interrelationship with other financial and economic entities. The first category includes investment firms in the systemic sense, the largest and most interlinked, which are still subject to the existing prudential framework resulting from the Regulation. The second category includes entities that do not generate systemic risk, but which have the highest probability of generating risks for market customers or for the proper functioning of investment firms. They should therefore be subject to certain prudential requirements adapted to specific risks. The third category is small and interconnected investment firms for which the least restrictive requirements are laid down. The second element of the prudential regime for investment firms which, due to their size and interrelationship with other financial and economic entities are not considered to be systemically important entities, will apply to any investment firm in order to facilitate the application of prudential requirements for investment firms in the European Union that are part of banking groups, and in this respect the capital requirements of investment firms will depend on the type of activity, the services on which the investment firm is authorised to provide or operate. Finally, the third assumption, i.e. taking into account the higher risk faced by investment firms of the second category, so the minimum own funds requirement for such firms will correspond to their fixed minimum capital requirement of 1/4 of their fixed indirect costs for the previous year or the sum of their requirements on the basis of sets of risk factors tailored to the specificities of investment firms by which capital is determined for the risks occurring in certain areas of investment firms' activities, whichever is the higher. Finally, investment firms will be required to comply with liquidity requirements, which will result in an obligation to have internal procedures to monitor and manage liquidity requirements. In addition, they will be required to maintain at any time at least 1/3 of the requirement for fixed indirect costs in liquid assets. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left Club is in favour of further proceding this project in order to adapt our national law to the EU's capital requirements for Polish investment firms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u454	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u455	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I would like to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other Print Act No 1513 and 1565. The proposal, as already indicated, concerns the necessary changes to the national legal order as a result of the entry into force of the European Union rules on capital requirements for investment firms. Project e.g. imposes an obligation on certain brokerage houses to apply to the Financial Supervision Authority for authorisation to conduct banking activities if the level of assets laid down in the provision is reached. They will set up, among others. the rules for the estimation of internal capital at the brokerage house are adapted to the Directive, inter alia. by indicating that internal capital should also include liquid assets. Furthermore, provisions not provided for in the Directive are repealed for the assessment of internal capital at consolidated level where the brokerage house is dependent on holding companies of a certain nature. The Directive, in contrast to the existing rules, regulates the tasks of the competent authorities in carrying out the supervisory examination and evaluation process. Furthermore, it does not provide for an obligation to prepare a supervisory programme and conduct stress tests. The draft also amends the provision on remuneration policy in brokerage homes. The remuneration policy is to be among others. gender-neutral. In addition, it was clarified when there was an obligation to set up a remuneration committee. The catalogue of supervisory measures available to the Financial Supervision Commission shall be amended. It is expected, among other things. changes in the imposition of additional requirements for the holding of own funds of a brokerage house and the possibility of imposing a higher internal capital requirement is introduced. Notwithstanding these measures, in order to ensure that cyclical economic downturns do not lead to a breach of capital requirements or jeopardise the ability of the brokerage house to liquidate and cease its activities in an orderly manner, the KNF will have the additional power to impose a higher internal capital requirement on the brokerage house. Following the introduction of liquidity requirements for brokerage houses, KNF will also be entitled to impose higher liquidity requirements on the house in justified cases. All supervisory measures of the KNF will be taken in the form of administrative decisions. In order to ensure appropriate supervisory powers, KNF will be able to request additional information on prudential requirements beyond the reporting obligations set out in the package. In violation of the IFR Regulation, sanctions of up to 21 000 are at stake. zł. The package assumes that investment firms are divided into three categories due to their size and interrelationship with other financial, economic entities. Under the new prudential regime, the principle is to be introduced that the requirements for the initial capital level of an investment firm will depend on the type of activity for which the investment firm is authorised to provide or operate. In addition, investment firms will be required to demonstrate compliance at any time with a fixed minimum capital requirement equal to the level of the initial capital required. In the case of small and unrelated investment firms, they will be required to have own funds equal to their fixed minimum capital requirement or 1/4 of their fixed indirect costs calculated on the basis of their activities in the previous year, whichever is the higher. In addition, investment firms will be required to comply with liquidity requirements, which will result in the obligation to have internal procedures to monitor and manage liquidity requirements. There will also be an obligation to disclose relevant information, e.g. on own funds and liquidity requirements. High Izbo! Given the area that has been the subject of many different types of problems and scandals with regard to the banking system, I think (The Bell) that these solutions will serve primarily the functioning of this financial system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u456	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. The first Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u457	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask if the government estimated what costs could be associated with the introduction and implementation of these obligations, because, of course, this applies to specialized companies, but it will probably entail some costs. How can these costs translate into customers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u458	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u459	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In this project we read about new mechanisms to strengthen investment security and prudential supervision of investment firms. Meanwhile, the retail market is flooded in Poland with hundreds of investment offers based on a rather fragile legal basis. We're supposed to have a mechanism to counter these phenomena, which has been pointed out, for example. At the GetBack event. Why do these mechanisms not work and function? Why doesn't the government issue clear messages to dement these offers? If I could get a written reply, I'd be obliged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u460	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u461	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like a little bit of a shady subject, but important for the policy related to financial instruments. I wanted to ask you what the government is planning. Is there any work on cybersecurity in the area of financial instruments management? Has legislative work started, which could also safeguard consumers, who are often involved in the use of different types of financial or credit instruments exposed to cyber attacks? They happen more and more often. Internet portals and industry experts report that in 2020 and 2021 the pandemic has intensified these attacks. The question is, do you have such an area in your interest and do you see the problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u462	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Patkowski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u463	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the first question, Mr Suchon's question regarding the estimated costs, the OSR is quite precise in defining and indicating the number of brokerage houses that can be assigned to a given category. As far as this highest category is concerned, no brokerage house in Poland meets the requirements. On the other hand, some of them can be classified by KNF in this category because of their market relevance. With regard to the specific requirements that have changed in the case of brokerage houses, of course, each brokerage house will estimate them individually. During the work on this law and during the public consultation, we did not identify any problems for brokerage houses that could not be met by regulatory barriers. By going into detail, I would like to say that there are three types of requirements that such brokerage houses will have to meet. This is a minimum initial capital requirement. As a rule, it's 150,000. EUR, currently 125 000. the euro, except where the brokerage house does not operate an alternative trading venue or does not perform operations involving the holding or recording of financial instruments and the keeping of cash accounts. For such houses we increase the requirement of 50,000. Euros up to 75 000 Euros. Where a brokerage house is engaged in the acquisition or sale of financial instruments or the provision of services on its own account in the performance of concluded emission guarantee agreements or in the conclusion and performance of other similar contracts, where financial instruments are the subject or the operation, the organisation of trading platforms, we shall increase such a limit from 730 000. EUR up to 750 000 Euros. As regards the requirement for fixed indirect costs, how it is calculated Articles 4 (1) point (b) and 4 (1) point (b) of CRR It will therefore develop at a level similar to that of the existing standards. As regards the prudential requirements based on factors K, the requirements affected by the scale and type of activities carried out by brokerage houses will indeed be the biggest difference for these requirements. It will be calculated for, among others, to the value of the client's financial instruments, the value of the assets in the management of the brokerage house held by brokerage houses, the value of orders of clients that are placed through a given brokerage house, and the volume of trading of financial instruments of those entities on their own account. Consequently, the new rules may result in a higher requirement for brokerage houses which act as depositary. There are now two such brokerage houses. Therefore, these requirements are slightly increasing, while during the consultation, as I have already mentioned, concerns were not raised by the market. As regards Mr Szopiński's question, it is worth noting that when it comes to warnings, UKNF is under supervision. The task of the Ministry and the Government is primarily to create regulations that such supervision can achieve. It is worth pointing out several legal provisions that have been introduced in the last few decades, actually counting precisely. Regarding stricte to GetBack, but these provisions resonate to other areas, a minimum value of one nominal subordinated bond was introduced, which cannot be less than 400 000. zł. This means that retail investors have a blocked opportunity to enter such securities, because retail investors do not fall into securities with a minimum value of 400 000. zł. First of all, UKNF has recently been strengthened, i.e. the entity which has the task of warning potential clients on the one hand, but on the other hand it also supervises the entities or parasites that operate such practices. We also provide cooperation between UKNF and entities such as ABW, CBA, National Tax Administration, Police and UOKiK President. Finally, as far as the practice of such contracts is concerned, we have introduced an obligation for investment firms to record conversations and record in electronic correspondence for portfolio management services consisting of one or more financial instruments and investment advisory services. We've eliminated the so-called. the practice of crawling private offers which did not require the preparation and approval of the tender document in KNF. This is the practice taken out of the GetBack business. We have also introduced the personal responsibility of the members of the management board or the supervisory board of the company when the company has committed infringements of the laws governing the activities of such an entity. Finally, we introduced a cyclical reporting requirement to KNF by investment firms, banks and trust banks for information on products sold to customers by these entities in order to enable UKNF to monitor the market with a view to identifying risks and new trends in the financial market. So that these are the actions aimed at ensuring that the situation with GetBack, both on an individual and subject-to-case basis, is not repeated, because I will remind you that the GetBack affair has resulted from the activities in question, i.e. offering retail financial instruments adversely to customers. As regards Mr Gawkowski's cybersecurity question, I would like to inform you that the European Union is currently at the stage of designing and consulting the so-called. DORA regulations. It is intended to regulate the scope of cybersecurity throughout the European Union market, i.e. in terms of both subject matter and subject matter. I think that the Commission will soon be finalising this regulation and, to the extent it is necessary, we will also implement it in the Polish legal order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u464	Thank you very much. Does the committee rapporteur still want to speak? Please, Mr Andrzej Noblechta.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u465	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would particularly like to thank all the members of the Committee on Public Finance who, with their substantive, substantive discussion, have created a good final project. The other two amendments, one of a legislative nature, the other of a more substantive nature, in view of these retrospective comments on the GetBack case, will result in a very good project that will partially protect against such accidents that have occurred in the past. Thank you very much to all the members of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u466	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u467	Position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws, print No 1513. The aim of the project is to make the necessary changes to the national legal order following the entry into force of European Union rules on capital requirements for investment firms, so-called. an IFD/IFR package that includes: - Directive (EU) 2019/2034 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on the prudential supervision of investment firms and amending Directives 2002/87/EC, 2009/65/EC, 2011/61/EU, 2013/36/EU, 2014/59/EU and 2014/65/EU Urz. EU L 314, 05.12.2019, p. 64, late. zm.), hereinafter referred to as the IFD Directive, - Regulation (EU) 2019/2033 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on prudential requirements for investment firms and amending Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 575/2013, (EU) No 600/2014 and (EU) No 806/2014 Urz. EU L 314, 05.12.2019, p. One, late. zm.), hereinafter referred to as the IFR Regulation. The aim of the IFD/IFR package is to establish a new prudential regime for investment firms. The prudential supervision of investment firms should take into account the ability of investment firms and their clients to take risks and the different degrees of that risk. It should also help avoid imposing excessive administrative burdens on investment firms. At the same time, it should be possible to strike a balance between ensuring the safety of investment firms' customers and avoiding excessive costs which could jeopardise the viability of their business. Key assumptions of the new prudential regime for investment firms included in the IFD/IFR package: Investment firms are divided into three categories due to their size and their interrelationship with other financial and economic entities. The first category includes systemically important investment firms, the largest and most interlinked, which are still subject to the existing prudential framework under the CRR Regulation and the CRD (necessity to obtain authorisation as a credit institution). The second category includes entities that do not generate systemic risk, but have the highest probability of generating risks to customers, markets or the proper functioning of investment firms. They should therefore be subject to certain prudential requirements adapted to specific risks. The third category is small and interconnected investment firms for which the least restrictive requirements are laid down. At the same time, mechanisms are envisaged for monitoring companies in order to meet the requirements on which they are classified into a given category (groups). The prudential supervision system for investment firms which, due to their size and interrelationship with other financial and economic entities are not considered to be systemically important entities, will apply to each investment firm. In order to facilitate the application of prudential requirements for investment firms in the EU that are part of banking groups (avoidance of distortions of certain business models whose risks are already covered by prudential rules), such investment firms will be able to obtain supervisory decisions on their application of the requirements of the CRR and the CRD. The requirements for the initial capital level of the investment firm will depend on the type of activity (services) for which the investment firm is authorised to provide or operate. The structure of the investment firm's own funds will be regulated by the relevant application of the provisions of the CRR. Investment firms will be required to demonstrate compliance at any time with a fixed minimum capital requirement equal to the level of the initial capital required. Small and unrelated investment firms will be required to have own funds equal to their fixed minimum capital requirement or one quarter of their fixed indirect costs calculated on the basis of their activities in the previous year, whichever is the higher. In order to take into account the higher risks to which Category 2 investment firms are exposed, the minimum own funds requirement for such firms will correspond to their fixed minimum capital requirement, one quarter of their fixed indirect costs for the previous year or the sum of their requirements on the basis of a set of risk factors tailored to the specificities of investment firms (K factors), by which capital is determined for the risks occurring in certain areas of investment firms' activities, whichever is the higher. Investment firms will be required to comply with liquidity requirements, which will result in an obligation to have internal procedures to monitor and manage liquidity requirements. In addition, they will be required to maintain at any time at least one third of the requirement for fixed indirect costs in liquid assets. In the case of investment firms in groups, prudential consolidation rules were foreseen, including for groups consisting exclusively of investment firms, a group capital test for simpler group structures. Responsible for the activities of investment firms and prudential requirements for reporting to investment firms, regarding the level and structure of their own funds, their own funds requirements, the basis for calculating their own funds requirements, their business profile and the size of the parameters used for the purposes of recognising investment firms as small and unrelated and other investment firms, Obligation to disclose relevant information, e.g. on own funds and liquidity requirements. Salary policy requirements to reduce the risk of business. Principles of cooperation between EU competent authorities, rules on ensuring supervisory and sanctioning powers for competent authorities and rules on the conduct of audit and supervisory evaluation of investment firms. It is therefore necessary to amend the following acts: - the Act of 29 July 2005 on trading in financial instruments (OJ 2005 L 140, p. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 328, late. zm.), - Law of 29 August 1997 - Bank law (Journal of Laws No. Member of the Commission 1896, late. zm.), - the Law of 29 August 1997 on pledge lists and mortgage banks (Journal of Laws No. Member of the Commission 415), - the Act of 7 December 2000 on the functioning of cooperative banks, their association and the association banks (Journal of Laws No. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 102, late. zm.), - Law of 28 February 2003 - Bankruptcy Law (Journal of Laws). Member of the Commission 1228, late. zm.), - the Act of 14 March 2003 on Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego (Journal of Laws). Member of the Commission 1198, late. zm.), - the Investment Funds and Alternative Investment Fund Management Act of 27 May 2004 (Journal of Laws). OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 605), - the Act of 29 July 2005 on the supervision of the capital market (Journal of Laws No. Member of the Commission 1400, late. zm.), - the Act of 29 July 2005 on Public Offering and Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies (Journal of Laws). Member of the Commission 2080, late. zm.), - the Law of 21 July 2006 on the supervision of the financial market (Journal of Laws No. Member of the Commission 2059, late. zm.), - the Act of 5 November 2009 on cooperative savings and credit banks (Journal of Laws). Member of the Commission 1643, late. zm.), - the Law of 12 February 2010 on the recapitalisation of certain institutions and on government financial stabilisation instruments. U. z 2018 poz. 124, late. zm.), - the Payment Services Act of 19 August 2011 (Journal of Laws No. Member of the Commission 794, late. zm.), - the bond law of 15 January 2015 (Journal of Laws No. Member of the Commission 1208, late. zm.), - Law of 15 May 2015 - Restructuring Law (Journal of Laws No. Member of the Commission 814, late. zm.), - the Law of 5 August 2015 on macro-prudential supervision of the financial system and crisis management in the financial system (Journal of Laws No. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 140, late. zm.), - Act of 11 September 2015 on insurance and reinsurance activities (Journal of Laws No. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1130), - the Act of 10 June 2016 on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the Deposit Insurance Scheme and compulsory restructuring (Journal of Laws). Member of the Commission 842, late. zm.), - Law of 15 December 2017 on insurance distribution (Journal of Laws No. U. z 2019 poz. 1881), - Act of 6 March 2018 on the rules for the participation of foreign entrepreneurs and other foreign persons in trade in the territory of the Republic of Poland (Journal of Laws). OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 994), - the Law of 12 April 2018 on rules for obtaining information on the non-criminality of applicants for employment and persons employed in financial sector entities (Journal of Laws No. Member of the Commission 1349), - the Law of 4 April 2019 on the promotion of scientific activities from the Polish Science Fund (Journal of Laws). OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1060), - the Law of 25 February 2021 amending the Law - Bank law and certain other laws (Journal of Laws No. U. poz. 680).
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u468	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws (Prints No 1547 and 1603). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u469	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At its 37th meeting on 17 September 2021, the Sejm sent the Government's draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws in print No 1547 to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. At its meeting on 28 September this year, the Commission examined this draft law and one amendment which was accepted by the Commission. The Commission asks the High House to approve the draft law annexed to the report of the committee's meeting on printing No 1603. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u470	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice. There isn't. Please, Mr Janusz Silchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u471	I don't really know who to talk to, Marshal, because there is no Minister responsible for this project at MF. As part of my first reading, I asked politely about the reasons for the delay and, in principle, the withdrawal from the implementation of the Central Register of Invoices. I will remind you that work on the Central Register of Invoices was started in 2015 at the Ministry of Finance, because we thought that the introduction of the JPK was an important but insufficient instrument to combat tax fraud, not only VAT, but also income taxes. In May 2015, the assumptions were ready. These assumptions included the introduction of an obligation to issue electronic invoices that would be authenticated on the Minister of Finance's server. Only certified invoices and backgrounds could be traded - ongoing monitoring of all transactions. The Minister of Finance declared the continuation of this project and the introduction of the register by the end of 2016. In response to my polite question about delays, the Minister carried out an impeccable trip to the times of our governments, the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL, commenting on the actions we have taken and considering that they were inconvenient when it came to sealing the tax system. In this context, I must name PiS's actions on the Central Register of Invoices by name: the work of the Minister of Finance since the end of 2015 on a key project sealing the tax system is inefficiencies and inefficiencies+. We are faced with unprecedented negligence and omission in the fight against tax fraud. It is not enough that omissions in this area give rise to suspicion that these could have been intentional actions. It's like the Ministry of Finance deliberately left a gate for tax frauds, for the mob, including the VAT mob. The delays in the implementation of the project are somehow strangely connected in time with the appearance of key directors in the Ministry of Finance from the point of view of sealing the tax system of cells, directors brought to the Ministry of Finance by Marian Banasia, who organized the VAT fraud mafia in the Ministry of Finance. The secrecy of the process deprives us and the public of access to the details of this operation. One thing is clear, Minister. Mafia in MF would not have been possible if the Central Register of Invoices you announced existed. And I didn't get any information, despite the good questions, about the costs associated with the implementation of the CRF, which is not there. I would remind you that PiS has set up a company called Critical Applications to deal with this, and that was her most important task. The rush was due to the fact that you estimated that this solution would amount to PLN 36 billion a year. That's how much you've valued it, and you've been saying it with stubbornness for a long time. In the OSR, you only provide the amount of costs incurred this year, so I repeat the question about costs incurred in the period until 2015. To conclude, I can say that what has been going on and is happening to this day deserves to be set up a committee of inquiry. I propose amendments to this draft law, which aim to make taxpayers more attractive. As you assume optionality in this arrangement, voluntaryity, so that these incentives are real, at least the period of VAT reimbursement should be clearly reduced. I'll be briefing the marshal on these corrections in a moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u472	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u473	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law regulates the possibility of issuing structured invoices which are one of the acceptable forms of documenting transactions alongside paper invoices and current electronic invoices. Invoices structured are invoices issued by taxpayers via the electronic system, i.e. The National e-Factur System, marked with an allocated invoice identification number in that system. In this governmental bill amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and some other laws on which I have the honour of presenting our opinion on behalf of the club Left, it is proposed to amend the Act of 11 March 2004 on VAT on goods and services in the implementation of the National e-Factur System and to further simplify the billing of invoices by taxpayers on goods and services. These changes concern simplifications in the issuing of corrective invoices, including a reduction in the number of elements of such invoices, advance invoices and the optional use of duplicate invoices. The draft provides for amendments to the Act of 29 August 1997 - Tax Order and the Act of 16 November 2016 on National Tax Administration having the character of adapting the current related provisions. The introduction of solutions is optional. The proposed law regulates the possibility of issuing structured invoices, as I have already mentioned. Each taxpayer through an individual account in the system will be able to issue an invoice structured using the model on the Electronic Public Administration Service Platform. It is assumed that the proposed solutions will contribute not only to strengthening checks on the regularity of VAT clearance, but also to simplifying the billing process in the business sector itself due to the possibility for tax authorities to remotely monitor the turnover documented by invoices. The proposed solutions will also increase the revenue of the state budget as a result of the planned increase in VAT at each stage of trade in goods and services. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The assessment of these solutions in print 1547 is based on the question whether these solutions are needed and whether they will actually facilitate the issuing of invoices and access to them. I think that, on the one hand, this debate and, on the other hand, further work on this law will give an answer to the question whether the use of these solutions will only be optional and whether it will actually be possible to increase the flow of invoices in this area and whether these solutions will facilitate, on the other hand, the issuing of invoices and, on the other hand, the clearance of invoices. I'm counting on the answer to that question. We are in favour of further proceding this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u474	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u475	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! At the beginning I will say that also the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, which I have the pleasure to represent in this debate, is in favour of proceding this bill until the happy finale and passing the law. However, we still have our reservations, despite the work that has been done on this project. Just as the previous speakers have pointed out here today, the objectives of introducing e-invoices are very reasonable, but it is difficult to resist the impression that e-invoices will be another tool of the Ministry of Finance and fiscal services to control and settle taxes. Tax authorities will have more accurate information on the circulation of invoices in the economy, and this brings many unknowns. Therefore, it is impossible, High Izbo, not to ask questions about matters which raise experts who raise doubts about the project. How will data be transferred between the central national invoice system and taxpayers' billing systems? Who will be responsible for archiving documents and possible loss of documents? Who will be responsible for the technical problems of the system or for the mistakes of people issuing invoices? In addition, e-invoicers will have to use an IT system that they do not have control over, e.g. They can't protect him from data leaks or hacker attacks on their own. This is also an important problem which should sound in the course of work in the High House. That's why I'm calling it in. We will certainly also be closely involved as a club in the work on eliminating these doubts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u476	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u477	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the government draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and some other laws, after presentation of the report of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said here, the proposed solution introduces the possibility of issuing invoices structured as one of the acceptable forms of documenting transactions in addition to traditional invoices and electronic invoices. Of course, it has its advantages, but it also has its drawbacks. In the course of parliamentary work, the Ministry failed to resolve all the doubts that we have and which concern, among other things. the reliability of the operation of this system, which will be responsible for trading and for that record. We are fully aware that this system will be as sensitive to various types of malfunctions as the other systems that are under the responsibility of the Minister's office. This results in various kinds of threats. Firstly, the risks relating to the efficiency of the operation, secondly, the possibility of real implementation of this turnover under the regime provided by the Minister. Of course, there are also costs associated with the need to adapt accounting systems to the requirements of the new register. Therefore, as I said in my first reading, incentives - because it will be optional at this stage - should be much more appropriate for companies to benefit from this solution. That is why Poland 2050 is making an amendment. In order to make this solution more attractive, we will propose that the time limit for a reduced tax refund of 40 days - what the Ministry proposed - be set out in the Act for 25 days, 15 days less. This seems to be a solution which, in response to the expectations of taxpayers, will result in them having a greater tendency to implement this solution at home, which will also be important from the point of view of sealing the tax system. I am therefore handing over this very good amendment to your marshal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask Members of the High House to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u478	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u479	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the report prepared by the Committee on Public Finance, on the draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and on certain other laws. This report drawn up by the Committee on Public Finance is available and can be found in print No 1603. During the committee meeting, numerous comments and changes of an editorial, legislative nature were submitted. I also tabled a substantive amendment, which, in amendment 13, gave a new wording to the article. 106nb. This law, in my opinion, is extremely necessary, a very important act, because it brings with it two very important solutions or, in other words, two very important objectives. First of all, the proposed solutions are designed to seal the tax system and at the same time to reduce irregularities in VAT settlement and to improve the conditions for taxable persons to conduct their business through easier and faster access to documents. This is really a very important objective of this law, which is implemented quite effectively by the rule of law and justice. As I mentioned, it has been implemented effectively since 2015. But this is also the second objective of the Act, which is primarily about simplifying the tax treatment of goods and services by taxpayers. These simplifications are primarily the issue of corrective invoices, including a reduction in the number of elements of such an invoice, an advance invoice, the optional use of duplicate invoices. Thus, given the two very important objectives of this law, namely, as I mentioned, the sealing of the tax system and the simplification that entrepreneurs are waiting for, I state that this law should be supported as much as possible by all clubs and all the wheels in the High House. That is what I am asking for on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I ask you to support these important, necessary solutions and adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u480	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come up with another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u481	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. The first question concerns the costs of implementing this solution on the part of the Ministry of Finance. What are the costs? Secondly, have the costs of adjusting the different systems by which invoices are generated been analysed? What kind of cost could that possibly be for one company? Of course, I take into account that this system is usually delivered to many thousands of companies. How can this translate into costs for one particular company? I also have a question about the return. What is the date of VAT refund for the small taxpayer and for the large taxpayer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u482	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u483	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask what is the estimated cost of adapting all information systems in our country for invoices. What additional information will the government obtain in relation to the use of this system compared to existing JPK files? Finally, I will ask a question that concerns all Poles. Will a person who is a VAT payer who sells proverbial cabbage in a stall be obliged to have an IT system and a computer on his workstation as a result of the adoption of this law? I would very kindly ask the Minister for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u484	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u485	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In my club speech, I stressed that the main purpose of this law is to seal the tax system, the VAT system. The rule of law and justice has achieved many successes in this area. I would like to ask the Minister for specific figures, because it is worth talking about specific figures in this debate. Thanks to the sealing of the tax system we were able to introduce a number of social programs, we could introduce a number of investment programmes connected with the local investment fund, we could introduce new tasks in the area of infrastructure, municipal roads, district roads. I ask the Minister to tell us how much we have gained thanks to the effective sealing of the tax system in Poland in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u486	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u487	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When it comes to sealing tax regulations, especially VAT regulations, I am absolutely in favour. You have to go after the so-called. VAT mafia. My question concerns the amendment of the VAT Act. You've made a lot of changes that relate to corrective invoices. I mean the provisions concerning SLIM VAT 1, SLIM VAT 2. I wanted to ask you how the corrective invoices with which entrepreneurs have a problem regarding the settlement and reimbursement of VAT were included in the current amendment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u488	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u489	Minister! Mrs. Marshal! Sealing VAT, in general working on taxes, which would lead to more money being spent on public services in the budget, is an important issue, but we must also take care of the other side, i.e. entrepreneurs, who often have to bear the various kinds of costs that the government puts on them. My question is very concrete: Is there any aid planned for entrepreneurs, for single-person activities that will implement various types of services or legal solutions that the government has reported today or will recommend in the future? Is such aid an element that could affect the company's activities? Do you plan to do that? Is something like this being realized? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u490	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u491	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We know all the stories about sealing our tax system. We heard how much VAT money was recovered. Only our colleagues in the ruling party know what reality looks like. The proposed amendment should certainly support entrepreneurship, but to what extent? Will entrepreneurs have a withdrawal period? At first, when the rules start to apply, there'll be a lot of confusion. What will happen to the corrective invoices mentioned earlier by the Member? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u492	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u493	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you in the first words for the very good adoption of this proposal by the Committee on Public Finance and by Members from all sides of the political scene. This is another step towards a technological revolution in the National Tax Administration and I am pleased that this project can be implemented so efficiently, so quickly and practically without any controversy. As far as the burden of this project is concerned, both archiving, securing and building connections with the accounting systems offered on the market will be carried out on the administrative side, on the side of the solutions that will be implemented in the system at the time of its launch. At the beginning of October, workshops will begin with entrepreneurs who want to try this system and with companies providing accounting software so that these convenient connections with business systems can be implemented as soon as possible. As regards the technical issues related to the security, I would like to stress very strongly that this solution is proven in Italy, Portugal and Spain. In the country where it lasts the longest, in Italy, it's already been four years of operation of this system. There were no burglaries, no missing invoices. So that the technological solution itself is simply a safe, scalable solution implemented now in Poland. Both the technical parameters and the regulation itself have been the subject of not only our workshops with countries that have already implemented this solution, but also of consultation with the European Commission. Here we have, you can even say, a European quality certificate that confirms it. Poland would probably have to be the first country in which any irregularities would have occurred. With regard to the costs of implementing this system it is on the side of the Ministry of Finance in the first year it is about 130 million PLN. That's the cost of putting all the systems up. Later each year these expenses vary between PLN 70 million and PLN 80 million. These are the maintenance expenses of the system. As far as cost on the business side is concerned, it will actually result from the decision of the operators of financial and accounting systems. Given that this is a solution that is expected to become widespread among entrepreneurs since 2023, this solution will be scalable, it will be implemented in practically every tax and accounting system of each company. The lack of uniqueness of this service as well as the multiplicity of customers will naturally lead to the situation that this will not be an expensive solution. This will be implemented simply as part of the update of financial and accounting systems at the turn of 2022 and 2023. With regard to the question concerning the time limit for VAT refunds, VAT refunds are, of course, made, in monthly amplitudes, after the settlement of traders. Specific information about recent months will be available after we address specific departments of the National Tax Administration. We will answer this question in writing. In the case of amending invoices, there will be a new possibility from January to settle the corrective invoices in minus. First of all, in a situation where an adjustment has been made to the National e-Factur System, the party issuing the correction is not obliged to wait for the other party to approve the adjustment, which naturally facilitates the tax settlement of the entity making the adjustment. With regard to the withdrawal period for companies and giving them time to prepare for this on the one hand, already at this pilot stage companies will have a few months, October, November and December, to test the systems. The next year will be the year of application of this solution in the voluntary formula. There is no obligation here and there are no risks of the market simply not preparing for this solution. In total, there will be a year and 3 months to prepare the entire market for the implementation of this solution in the mandatory formula, so that we do not see here the risks associated with the possibility of implementing this solution in the following year. As far as the VAT gap and the sealing of the tax system are concerned, I would like to emphasise once again that the situation we are seeing now is diametrically different from what we saw 5 or 6 years ago. In 2015, in the pockets of the Mafia and in the grey zone, one in four zlotys was landed, which should go to the State budget for VAT. Now it lands there every tenth. This is at least PLN 20 billion a year more in the state budget. It is also 20 billion PLN, which does not land in the pockets of dishonest taxpayers, possibly tax offenders, and does not violate the competition rules between them and companies that fairly account for taxes. It is also a secret behind the fact that the Polish economy developed so quickly until the pandemic period and that it is a reflection of the post-pandemic planned for next year... Let me remind you that the projected GDP growth next year is between 4.5 and 5.7% by different credit rating agencies. So rapid regeneration and so good results of the Polish economy by 2019 are the result of this healing of relations between entrepreneurs and creating fair, safe conditions of competition for honest companies, so that companies can compete among themselves with quality of products, efficiency of running business, not dishonesty in paying taxes. The effects of sealing the tax system don't come out of nowhere either. This is the result of the legal changes introduced into the tax system and the true technological revolution. 2015 was the year of pencils, cards and rubbers. VAT settlements were carried out on paper. The first electronic declarations were introduced only a few years later. [[That's not true, Minister, it's not true.]] Now the whole reporting is implemented in the JPK formula. This allows automatic analysis of reports, compilation of transactions reported by both parties and tracking the movement of goods practically from their appearance in Poland to their departure to another country of the European Union. What's the national e-invoice system gonna do? It will give us that the analysis of trading between entities will be possible to begin much earlier, not after a month and 25 days - this is the longest possible date for starting the analysis - from the moment of the transaction and the issue of the invoice, and practically in real time. When the invoice is issued, information about this will be sent to the Ministry of Finance and analytical activity can be started immediately, which will reduce the life of the VAT carousel from 3 months to practically a few weeks. The result will also be that this VAT gap has a chance to decrease again by almost half: from 10% or 8% , also depending on the entity that analyses the VAT gap in Poland, to about 5% That is, the level that is now functioning in France. So that for the tax administration it's like changing from a bike to a fast bike. We want this new tool to increase the efficiency, productivity of the National Tax Administration, but above all the safety of entrepreneurs, to deliver it to these entrepreneurs as soon as possible. This is why there is an ambitious timetable for the implementation of this solution, but also a safe and, most importantly, based on proven solutions already implemented in other countries and accepted at European level. The remaining questions will be answered in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u494	Thank you very much. [[What about critical applications, Minister, too?]] [[Voice from the room: Also, of course.]] The rapporteur is still here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u495	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This draft law amending the act on value added tax is an important project because VAT is the highest position in the revenue of the state budget. Last year it was almost PLN 180 billion. So this is about two directions: on the one hand, sealing and reducing the tax gap that the Minister was talking about and, on the other hand, streamlining, simplifying procedures, and therefore further electronicising the clearing procedures. And in this area was the greatest compatibility. I would like to thank all the members of the committee very much for the active work on this project, for the amendments that have been tabled. There's an expectation that this time will be cut short for the tax refund. We will discuss this, but for the hard work on this important project, I wanted to thank all its members very much on behalf of the committee. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u496	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the governmental draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production (prints No 1451 and 1592). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u497	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the joint Sejm committees: the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, print No 1451. During the joint meeting of the two committees on 28 September 2021, a discussion was held on the project, the main objective of which is to increase the excise duty limit contained in the price of the diesel used for agricultural production per hectare of agricultural crops from 100 l to 110 l and the limit on the consumption of diesel per large conversion unit of bovine animals from 30 l to 40 l in the case of the agricultural producer holding or rearing bovine animals for which the part of the excise duty included in the price of the fuel purchased for that production is to be reimbursed. No legislative amendments were tabled during the committee's work on the proposed solutions. In its vote, the committee voted in favour of the proposal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development welcome the draft law presented and advocate its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u498	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Małecki, Mr Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u499	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to once again present a statement concerning the draft law amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, print No 1451. I think that the need to adopt this project, which is one of the elements of the Polish Order addressed to farmers, does not raise any doubts. The proposed increase in financial assistance to agricultural producers in the form of excise duty reimbursement also found acceptance of the Sejm committees, as I mentioned just a moment ago. This was expressed in the joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Public Finances, which unanimously voted in favour of the project. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the adoption of a government bill in Seym Printing No 1451. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u500	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u501	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club our position on the Act amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. The bill is accepted by us because it is a good law, because it supports agriculture, which is at this point in time in collapse, has very little support. However, we have observations and an amendment on the report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 1 is replaced by the following: 4 in paragraph 2. 2: (a) in point 1, the number 100 is replaced by 150; (b) in point 2, the number 30 is replaced by the number 60. There is an increase in the amount of fuel to be used for our agriculture from 100 l - the bill proposes a number 110 to 150. This will slightly support farmers due to the progressive inflation, because in the draft law the amount of the co-financing is at the level of PLN 1 and this will allow them to refund this amount in a slightly larger amount. In point 2, the number 30 is replaced by the number 60. It is also a standard from 30 to 40 l per average of a large annual conversion unit of cattle. And this is also an amount greater than the one proposed in the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u502	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u503	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left in relation to the government draft law amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. Minister! You know very well that effective agricultural production depends on the quantity and quality of food that is placed on the market and allows consumers to meet the absolute basic needs of life, which is the need for food and drink. Business activity in this sector of the economy involves increasing costs, energy costs, including, of course, fuel, and equipment or more necessary technologies in agriculture. The words "inflation" go crazy for your governments'already sound like a cliché. According to the calculations of the Central Statistical Office, the energy sources mentioned by me have been used by more than 5%. versus last year. The growing energy prices that farmers bear continue to contribute to the rise in food prices that hit the poorest people in their pockets, especially those who spend a penny of their income on food. We would like to say: the Polish state is implementing the programme of poverty+ at the moment. The changes proposed in the draft can actually help to solve this problem by real support for agricultural holdings in the form of a refund of excise duty and thus contribute to the competitiveness of Polish agriculture. I would like to reiterate that, at least in part, we will allow farmers to offset the losses caused by frequent storms, droughts or the spread of ASF infectious diseases. The Left's position doesn't change. We are prepared to support this bill. Nevertheless, I would like to stress with all my power that if the project itself can positively affect the situation of Polish agriculture, it is far from good system solutions, which are more than urgent in Polish agriculture and which the government does not want to push through. I guess it's not hard to guess what I'm talking about. It is time for bold decisions on the introduction of a sustainable agricultural model, which will be subsidised. Firstly, so that small family farms can compete with large food producers, and secondly, in order to adapt this sector of the economy to the requirements of the European Green Deal and the European Strategy to make food production more based on green solutions. Today, agriculture and forestry contribute significantly to CO2 emissions. That's 8% now. the coal budget in Poland. The increase in emissions is a further degradation of the environment and thus a handicap for agriculture. Droughts, floods and hurricanes will increasingly hit farms whose production costs will be so horrendously high that in a few decades we will be spending almost all our income on food as citizens. It's not too late to stop it. The solution is energy transformation also in agriculture and preparation for the adoption of the models contained in the European Green Deal. Energy, first of all. Citizens should be encouraged to invest in renewable energy sources. However, the government still does not allow farmers to sell surplus energy obtained from photovoltaics, which are natural during the summer period. The release of surplus trade will certainly encourage users to use solar panels that can supply even large farms without a gram of CO2 emissions. Finally, a law that does not allow windmills to be placed at a certain distance from their homes. Maintaining these unwarranted solutions from the point of view of current energy trends is another brake for the development of clean energy in the future of Polish agriculture and the entire economy, a sustainable, carbon-free and environmentally friendly economy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to add that Poland will certainly not argue with its neighbours about wind farms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u504	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u505	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the excise duty refund law contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. This law will not solve the problems of Polish agriculture. Those problems aren't too low in excise duty. They're lying somewhere else. I am a Member of Warmia and Mazury. In our region there is a virus of African swine fever that kills pig producers. The surveillance zone includes several districts, which are famous for the production of the flock. Farmers are losing their livelihoods. In recent years, agricultural production costs, including fuel consumption, have increased significantly. The increase in production costs at low prices for agricultural products obtained by agricultural producers from their sales makes agricultural production less and less profitable. The share of fuel costs in the total costs of agricultural production increases from year to year. It is estimated that this is related to new production technologies, often with increased production intensity and a desire to achieve better economic results, as well as to rising fuel prices, especially during periods of the highest demand for them in agriculture, i.e. during increased field work, especially the harvest. In view of the above, the Polish Łada was included among others. Action under the name: an even greater refund of excise duty on agricultural fuel. The draft law proposes to amend the wording of the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 laws. The change introduced is to increase the consumption limit for diesel used for farm work. In point 1, this increases from 100 l to 110 per hectare of agricultural area. In points 2 from 30 l to 40 l to the average annual large conversion unit of bovine animals held by the agricultural producer in the year preceding that year. According to the expert reports sent by the Institute in Falents, the research institute of agricultural economics in Warsaw and the Institute of Zootechnics in Cracow, the average consumption of diesel used for cattle breeding and breeding works per DJP is set at 53 and 105 l. Only 40 l were adopted in this bill. Farmers ask why the government has adopted such a small increase from 30 to 40 l when scientists are talking about a minimum of 53 l and a maximum of 105 l. High Seym! This year, fertilizer is very expensive. They roam at an even crazy pace. Fertilizers used several hundred zlotys per tonne. Salatra today costs 2400 zł, urea 2700 zł, polyphoska 2340 zł, phosphate 2860 zł. It's fueling up. It's burning gas. It's draining energy. Energy this year costs 300 PLN, next year it will cost 500 PLN. Farmers in Warmia and Mazury in the red zone sell cattle at PLN 2.40. The cost of production is 6 PLN. They're asking who's gonna cover the difference. Are we going to move completely to organic farming next year? Because at such prices farmers are unable to compete in the European Union. In addition, only three Polish Association of Grain Plant Producers, RI Solidarity and the National Council of Agricultural Chambers expressed their opinion on the law. Their conclusion was 130 l to 1 ha. Unfortunately, the comments of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers have not been taken into account. Under the rules in force, farmers may apply from 1 February to the end of February and from 1 August to 31 August. There were 14 days in the previous excise duty refund bill. There are 60 days in this bill. Here is the basic question: Why has this period been extended? In addition, over the whole funding period (the Bell), from 2022 to 2031, there is a total of PLN 160 million. The fundamental question is whether inflation will not be achieved over 10 years. It will, therefore the amount of 160 million will be insufficient. Nevertheless, the Polish People's Party will support this law, which will enter into force on 1 January 2022. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u506	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u507	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the government bill amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production after presentation of the report of the committee. High Izbo! This draft law submitted by the government aims to increase the amount of diesel consumed to which part of the excise duty included in the price of the fuel purchased for this production is refunded. It is obvious that prices have risen very quickly in recent years. There are many reasons. Some, you might say, are objective, but a large proportion of the rising costs are borne by the government of Law and Justice, which generates these cost-effective factors. New taxes, galloping costs, lack of a rational approach to energy transformation. All of this causes prices to rise and increase, so this - I would say - actions that somehow build a pillow are needed. Unfortunately, this bill will not solve these problems. And that's the problem. Already during the committee meeting it was pointed out that even these new limits proposed by the government are separated from the actual values. In terms of standards per hectare, specialists indicate that in fact it is from 130 l to 150 l, rather than 110 l, as the government proposes. On the other hand, in terms of conversion into one unit - from 53 l to 105 l, not 40 l, as the government wants. This is outrageous because it shows that the government's proposals, which, on the one hand, are responsible for the cost and, on the other hand, are not doing anything to combat cost-effectively, are inadequate to meet real needs. I wonder what you guys come to farmers with, because it's ridiculous when you first generate costs and then you come up with a proposal that doesn't solve the problem. Therefore, on behalf of Poland 2050, I make an amendment that meets the real, real, concrete expectations of farmers. We propose that when converting the area it is 130 l, which is the lower limit that specialists are talking about, while in the conversion unit it is 79 l, i.e. the average of the largest and smallest values. In production it is that the needs are approaching the center, that they are the most common in the middle values. We therefore considered that this would be due on the one hand to the interests of the farmer, but on the other hand to the budgetary security of the rational solution. I am submitting these amendments to your marshal, and I ask you to accept them by the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u508	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u509	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High, at least a little bit of Izbo's bill! Returns of excise duty on farmers are basically a good initiative, as I said earlier, we will support it. Given the fact that fuel prices in Poland are constantly rising, they reach a really high, horrendous level, an increase in the quantitative limits that will be due here is needed. Not only are fuel prices, as you may have guessed, a problem, but also the prices of fertilisers, feeds, because they also increase, as everything in Poland is now more expensive and this is a dubious merit of the government. It's not just farmers, for example. excise duty, because as a Confederation, I remind you that we proposed to reduce VAT, reduce excise duty, issue fee on fuel, so that the price from almost 6 zlotys we have today would fall around 4 zlotys. But an increase in excise duties for farmers is also a drop in the sea of needs, but it is a plus, because the list of problems is much, much longer, even discriminatory Polish farmer's amount of aid per hectare compared to Western Europe, the European Green Deal, which will drastically affect the amount of fertilisers or plant protection products used. The efficiency of domestic production, when we start implementing these EU directives, will be much lower and the Polish farmer will be discriminated against. Remember, too, that feed plants that produce oxygen are grown in animal farming, so it is not entirely true that these animals pollute the environment so much. There are also ideas of the end of the cage age, which will be a blow to the Polish farmer, the producer. Many people forget that cages are not only poultry but also cattle, pigs. The ASF problem is a dramatic, big problem, the problem of avian influenza - similarly. Farmers have great problems returning to the market after the elimination of their entire farms, there are still problems with compensation. That's what I'm paying attention to. There is also a lack of real commercial diplomacy. Minister Bartosik! You're in the O.R. today. We haven't seen your boss around here in a while. Why don't you ask him if he wouldn't stand up in the truth, and if he wouldn't rather - because by looking at his actions, it might be - that farmers leave their farms and go to the hypermarkets. At least they'll know where they stand. Thank you. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u510	We have people to ask, but it doesn't show. Just a minute. No, maybe no one volunteered. [[I volunteered, Marshal.]] Too bad, we're running late. [[Is that such a shame?]] No, Mom's late. [[We'll get some more sleep.]] Who's gonna sleep? [[But I didn't sign up for the statements.]] That's all right, ma'am. If the Member is registered, please. One minute. I'm closing the list.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u511	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Wojciechowska and Mr Szopiński, as well as a colleague from the Polish Coalition, have very precisely dismissed the problem which is with agriculture. These are the huge problems of agriculture. Minister! We expect comprehensive solutions. A modest addition to the price of fuel, an increase from 100 l to 110 l of this excise duty refund from diesel and to those large pieces, where cattle count accordingly and the pigs are converted accordingly. I remember that over the years, we've been pursuing a certain parity. It's about how much a farmer has to earn and how much people earn in a non-agricultural economy. We're running out of quotas here. And really, there are a lot of problems: ASF, the district of Mielecki. I am still calling for the greatest (Bingle) action in this area and for an increase, support for such a solution as is in our amendments, because in the areas covered by excise duties... You know perfectly well that the price from the red zone, if it is possible to collect the pieces, is very low, above PLN 2.40. It's either slaughter, or it's still not possible to produce. Thank you very much, Member. You have offered modestly as regards this Polish Load. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u512	Thank you very much. Now Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. Here you go, one minute. Please observe the discipline of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u513	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The price of diesel for today is in the range from 5 PLN 28 gr to 5 PLN 57 gr for 1 l. This times 10 l gives the amount of approx. 55 PLN per ha. This is indeed a small rate today and at galloping inflation. Fuels last year increased by around 32%. The calculations in the draft excise duty refund law contained in the price of diesel for agricultural production are quite unclear. And further: according to the expertise sent by R &amp; D units, the average consumption of diesel used for cattle rearing or rearing works per DJP is between 53 L and 105 L. The draft law adopted the consumption of diesel used for agricultural production of 40 l per bovine DJP. In that case, please explain the methodology (the bell) for calculating these limits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u514	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u515	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I asked the Minister of Agriculture if he really wanted to increase the competitiveness of Polish farms on the European market by granting them an average refund of PLN 154 per year. The bill went to the committee and here the question arises: Has the committee taken to heart these calculations? No, it's not. Perhaps because the Prime Minister is convinced that farmers should not have any problems, because the government takes care of them and takes care of their interests. I would kindly ask the Minister to calculate how the amount of PLN 154 on average will affect the position of Polish agricultural holdings on the European markets with the projected huge increase in energy prices and the galloping increase in the price of fertilisers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u516	Thank you. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u517	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, prices in agriculture, the costs in agriculture are increasing, so the legislation on fuel, when it comes to excise refunds, is very good. On the other hand, I hear from the opposition benches and in the speeches that you want more. You want more money, you want more gallons, more refunds on this excise duty for farmers. At the same time, you are in favour of all EU green governance programmes on ECTS construction Nord Stream 2 and Merkel-Putin cooperation. So I am surprised that today you are presenting this hypocrisy, because that is why the costs in agriculture are rising. As far as the price of nitrogen fertilisers is concerned, 70% Gas prices are the ones that affect them. So if you supported this international cooperation, through your governments you have led to an increase in the price of fertilisers and the elimination of certain sectors in Polish agriculture. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, please: more humility, more cooperation. [[Voice from the hall: 6 years in Poland you rule.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u518	Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u519	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amendment of the Act on the refund of excise duties on fuel for farmers is, of course, expected and this is a move in the right direction. However, this expression is, you can say, an apparent movement. From the calculations you're presenting here, it's just 1 l to 1 ha. My questions are: First of all, why so little? Secondly, why aren't you taking into account the plans you are presenting here for the next 10 years, which is until 2031, at least the inflation rate? Firstly, you assume the same amount, which is low, insufficient, and secondly, you do not take into account aspects such as inflation, which we now know is galloping.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u520	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u521	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the bill is good because it supports our agriculture. I will not comment on your fellow Member's speeches because I believe that what you just said is absurd. The question is, of course, only about the amount of funding. One zloty to one liter of fuel is really very, very little compared to galloping inflation, and it's going to be even bigger. And as envisaged by the bill, by 2031 the same amounts will be mandatory in terms of agricultural support. Why is Galloping prices not taken into account? That's one thing. Secondly, why is it that only 40 l of the consumption of diesel used (The Bell) for agricultural production is taken into account, and in fact this is 53 to 105? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u522	Mr Jerzy Małecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u523	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am listening here to the voices of the Civic Platform, Members of the Civic Platform or of the PSL, and I would like to ask such a question, Minister. How many gallons of fuel in principle did the coalition of the Civic Platform and PSL propose to return the excise duty contained in diesel to one large cattle conversion unit? Please specify precisely what years it was and what amounts it was. And the second question is that we are also talking about this, and I suspect that some Members do not know what they are talking about. Please tell me, at the moment we have an amount of 1 zloty per litre per hectare, and what maximum rates can be offered to farmers under EU law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u524	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, is responsible. Minister, you're welcome. There weren't many questions, so I understand the short answer. [[We've got acceleration.]] Please? We've got hours of delay.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u525	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to point out to the High House that we are not lowering, but we are raising this payment because it sounded as if we were lowering. The amount of 10 PLN is constantly scrolling, and I would like to say that we estimate that after the change of legislation there will be 1300 million PLN, this increase, the cost of excise duty on agricultural fuel. Let me just remind you that this is a surcharge for part of the excise duty. You're confusing the facts here. One Mr Malecki asked what it looks like as much as we can raise. Well, we can raise 1,07 zlotys and raise the zloty. Another matter, ladies and gentlemen, in the time of the previous power, the Civic Platform, the PSL, because there was also such a question, the payment to the cattle conversion unit was zero. We're the ones who introduced this payment, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! There's also a lot of talk about the price of fuel. Today, diesel costs about PLN 5.30, and as I recall, in your time diesel was already more expensive, you were aiming at the amount of PLN 7. One of the prominent politicians said that now the fuel could be 7 zlotys, and I would like to remind you that at that time this limit was 86 l, and today it is 110 l. That's what these differences look like. I can't agree with the wording that the raise is outrageous. How can there be an outrageous increase, ladies and gentlemen? We raise the limit, and like I said, it's over a billion zlotys. Everyone says it's not enough. I already told you from that speaker we're monitoring the situation. If there is an increase in fuel prices, this road will continue. This is not the last raise for our governments, because we will monitor it and, if necessary, we will raise these limits. And let me remind you again that we've introduced a payment into the cattle. Ladies and gentlemen! And yet these are not the only expenses, fuel support, part of excise duty refund is not the only support. The budget plan for next year is adopted. We're gonna support insurance, which we've talked about a lot too. This year for the autumn round of insurance will be 900 million. I mean. for the whole year 900 million PLN for insurance premiums, 700 million for the autumn round, for next year there will be over 1 billion 200 of these funds. We will also set up a guarantee fund in agriculture, which will be a disaster fund, when it comes to insurance. In the event of a major disaster or in parts of the country, we will benefit from this fund. A great deal has been said here outside the scope of the Act on all other issues related to agriculture, about ASF, about avian influenza. We're increasing spending next year on this. We have planned PLN 240 million in special reserves to support pig producers, and today at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, further funds were earmarked for veterinary treatment and support for pig producers. These funds shall be transferred within a very short period of time, almost 2 weeks from the date of the outbreak on the holding concerned. The measures are enough for us right now, farmers don't have to wait. We will also allocate funds to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. This is PLN 367 million for many aid measures. The special reserve for combating infectious animal diseases is planned to increase expenditure by PLN 116 million, in addition to the budgets of voivodships - by PLN 518 million. These measures for all activities that are related to infectious diseases are sufficient at the moment. Insurance, as I said, too. Ladies and gentlemen! We increase the consumption of diesel: per hectare of agricultural crops from 100 l to 110 l, to one large conversion unit of cattle from 30 l to 40 l, and the expenditure for this purpose will be PLN 1300 million. This is not the only support provided for farmers. We are monitoring the situation and, if necessary, we will come to the High House with a proposal to increase these limits. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u526	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u527	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of this Act is to increase the excise duty refund limit for agricultural producers included in the price of fuel purchased for the purpose of carrying out this production. This action will undoubtedly contribute to improving the competitiveness of Polish farms. At this point, however, consideration should be given to introducing more systematic solutions in the future. I therefore ask you to answer the question: Is the agricultural department planning to introduce solutions aimed at diversifying the refund limit depending on the structure of the agricultural area, targeting, intensity and production technology, the area structure of agricultural holdings and natural conditions, as these factors directly affect the level of consumption of diesel in agriculture?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u528	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this bill to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government draft law amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws (Prints Nos 1503 and 1602). I ask Mr Krzysztof Janusz Kozik to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u529	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present a report on the work of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on 28 September 2021 on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and certain laws, print No 1503. The aim of the Act is to amend the legislation on hard coal mining. They will enable further restructuring and transformation of the hard coal sector in Poland and finance the effects of these processes. The aim of the amendments is also to allow the use of cover instruments and related social benefits by mining workers, mining plants or their designated part acquired from 1 December 2021 by the Company for the Restructuring of Mines. The new rules are a continuation of actions initiated by the government in 2015 following the adoption of a resolution plan for the Coal Company SA. They relate to the extension of the period of disposal by mining companies to the decommissioning company, as well as to the extension of the time limit allowing for the use of cover benefits by employees passing along with the property to the Company for the Restructuring of Mine. The need to continue restructuring the Polish hard coal mining sector is largely due to the long-standing difficult situation in the international coal market. At the same time, the draft law takes into account the provisions of the social agreement concerning the transformation of the coal mining sector and the selected transformation processes of the Śląskie voivodship, which was signed on 28 May 2021 in Katowice. The planned recovery plan aims to ensure the wider energy security of the State, as well as to continue coal mining economically justified and in line with the timetable contained in the social agreement. Failure to restructure and consequently the collapse of coal companies could result in very serious socio-economic repercussions for Upper Silesia. That's, among other things. the failure to fulfil financial obligations, the threat of national energy security, the social consequences of bankruptcy and the wider impact on coal-based co-operatives. The most important solutions proposed in the Act are the following. The company will be able to acquire further mines from operating coal companies and finance their liquidation from the state budget. These are mines whose decommissioning will start between 1 December 2021 and 31 December 2023. In addition, the draft law allows for further funding from the state budget of the tasks currently carried out by the Company for the Restructuring of Mines until the end of 2027. It was possible to benefit from cover instruments and social benefits payable to workers employed in the mine, mining plant or its designated part acquired by the SRK after 1 December 2021. This applies to persons who do not have pension rights. Support for workers will provide for mining leave or leave for workers of the mechanical processing plant or a one-off cash check. During the committee's work, seven amendments were tabled of an order, legislative and complementary nature. The Commission has given a positive opinion on the amendments to the Article. Point 3 (2), Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Other amendments concerning amendments to the provisions of Article The 1st committee gave a negative opinion. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission recommends the draft law as it stands and requests its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u530	Thank you very much, sir. We are now entering the debate. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Ewa Malik will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u531	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present my position on the report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and on certain other laws, Parliamentary printing No 1602. The draft law aims to carry out the restructuring of the hard coal sector in such a way as to mitigate its negative social impact and to provide adequate shielding instruments. The draft amending the law will have an impact on the situation and competitiveness of the Polish hard coal mining industry in view of reducing the volume of domestic coal supply on the market. In addition, mine decommissioning affects the environment by limiting the storage of post-production waste and stopping land degradation. However, the most socially significant consequence of the mining restructuring process is the reduction of employment in mining. According to mining companies' estimates, 1371 people will benefit from one-off cash checks and 2348 people will benefit from mining holidays, a total of 3719 people. At the meeting of the committee yesterday, the content of the bill was discussed, with the Legislative Bureau proposing several amendments of an editorial and legislative nature, which were agreed by the members of the committee. Several amendments made by the Left Club and the Civic Coalition were not accepted by the members of the committee. As a result, following the adoption of a number of, specifically, three parliamentary amendments, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends that the High Sejm adopt the report of the printing commission No 1602. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u532	Thank you very much. Now Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, of course, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u533	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Citizen Coalition club to present my position on the draft law on the amendment of the law on the operation of hard coal mining and some other laws. It is right that my previous speakers have noticed that it is a sin to stop this process, that it will lead to a further waste of money and time. Because when the government of law and justice made a decision, and after the election, they went into liquidation of mines, they used a different narrative. He said there's a great, bright future for coal. He lied to Poles all the time. He lied to the inhabitants of Silesia. And yet the same important politicians participated in talks about decarbonisation, on new European Union activities related to climate neutrality. Yeah, a lot of treaties have been signed. But all the time, Silesia had such a narrative: no, a bright future for Silesia. And what does it turn out to be? That you can throw out the 2018 coal mining programme today and say: we talked about it recently, throw it in the trash. You can say that it is not implemented, that the strategy of the Polish Mining Group 2017.2030 is a material that can be thrown into the basket. All the time, the narrative of lying and not telling the truth - it's your fault. This is your fault. If you had actually taken action to restructure mining, we would not have such laws today. Because this bill was adopted in 2015. She has set up support for mining in situations where mines are economically inefficient and when they need to be eliminated. We, as the Civic Platform, adopted Chapter 3a on social protection. All of you, sitting in these parliament halls, voted against this bill in 2015, and today you praise her so well. Ba, you couldn't even prepare this bill, because if you're talking about support, we tabled an amendment yesterday at the committee meeting, and today we're going to report it again. The point is that you leave another group of unprotected people, those people who, in their full awareness of the work and functioning of the mining industry, moved from one mine to a company restructuring mines in the context of repairing the operation and conducting further mining. These people didn't have any opportunity to take advantage of it. In a year or less, for example. Makoshov's mine will be destroyed. And what about these people? Today, the Civic Coalition is making an amendment. We're trying to fix this. We also want to talk about this every year, how the restructuring process you are talking about is going on, how the liquidation process is going. Because what you wrote down in the social contract with the trade unions not so long ago, a few months ago... The minister sitting here, his colleagues in § 5, provided a guarantee of employment in the liquidation of 12 successive mines. And today we're talking about two mines and these people have no guarantee of work. Today we are talking about the liquidation of more than 3,000. jobs. Minister, it's in the bill, and you're running this narrative all the time, saying that these are the jobs that these miners are taking up today in a particular mine that we're going to take out. Today we're talking about the Hawk mine, mining district III, and we're talking about the Peace mine. If you analyze the documents you received from Jastrzębska Węglowa, you will hear that you have sent... that this information was collected among 1804 miners. It's not a mine, it's a whole mining company. Not one mine where 1600 works, but half of them say they work or more than half of them work in the Bzie mine. Very little, 550 of those listed by you as 1804 today received the approval of the director and board of coal companies that the employer agrees to the retirement or mining leave. That's your integrity. That is your honesty, even in the information you receive. Minister! Tell me you're changing... What are you changing? The carbon bell, because you're changing the value... Thank you, sir. ...a coal mix on one of these. I now ask Mr Maciej Necessary, the Left Club. Mr. Marshal! In the last sentence, I would like to say that the Civic Coalition Club is proposing two amendments to this bill today. Yeah, that's what we heard. Thank you very much, sir. We understand the direction, the property in action and we will support this direction, but we also want you to demand that you treat everyone fairly in this... [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u534	You didn't leave an amendment. Member Maciej Necessary, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u535	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is the second time we've talked about amending the law on hard coal mining. I spoke for two weeks about the need for these changes and the Left declares its willingness to continue to work on the bill. I also said that in the context of mining, we need to consider it is in a wider regional context that even the most generous checks will not replace new jobs and energy transformation must be fair. It must not be at the expense of workers and workers and no group may be left out. Two weeks later, I feel like we haven't moved forward on any of these issues. The law itself contains significant gaps that undermine the fairness and fairness of the whole process. Yesterday, at a committee meeting with Ms Urszula Zielińska and the chairman of the ZZG mine Makoszowy Andrzej Chwiluk, we tried to convince Minister Sobonia not to leave on the ice, not to forget, not to leave anything to about 1000 mainly employees of the administration of the Company for the Restructuring of Mines, who did not benefit from the previous round of checks, they could not benefit from the one that could soon lose their job. What did we hear from the minister? That he doesn't understand what it's all about, that there's no problem at all that the ladies will definitely keep their jobs, and if the mine is destroyed to the end, they'll move on to another one. What's the problem? On the fact that in the liquidation of KWK Makoszowy from 300 employees will soon be several dozen. A lot of administration workers are gonna lose their jobs. No briefings, no guarantees, nothing but Minister Sobonia's words, of course. But you know what, Minister? The workers and workers of KWK Makoszowy know how much your words are worth, because you lied to them, saying that the mine will not be closed. To them Beata Szydło led her lying promises in 2015, which very quickly turned out to be worthless. So, Minister, don't be surprised that Zabrze employees and employees aren't satisfied with your promises and demand specific guarantees. It's still fixable. Administration staff with SRK is not the only group overlooked throughout the transformation process. However, in order to see this, we need to go beyond the very subject of the Law, which applies only to entities controlled by the State Treasury. Therefore, it does not apply to employees of private entities. This is obvious unequal treatment of workers in terms of their pre-retirement benefits and another break in the system. Another division of employees into better and worse, this time due to the ownership structure of the company. Once again, the government's trees are blocking the forest. Instead of looking at the transformation process as a whole, you throw in random, inconsistent solutions for specific companies, specific groups, specific issues that are burning. Speaking of leaving coal, we are not only talking about closing mines, about miners losing their jobs, but about huge economic and social changes, mainly in Silesia. We are talking about mining-related companies, the disappearance of a large number of quality jobs, the need to replace them with new ones. And here, there's still a dramatic lack of solutions. Recently Minister Soboń had the opportunity to visit my family's Swan and the steelworks there, and I hope that this visit has given the Minister to think. The Swanworks are an excellent example of the situation in which Polish steel industry and in general many plants are now located. Most of the production is for mining purposes and this part will have to go soon, because it will turn out to be inefficient, but there is also a new department producing modern steel pipes. The past and the future that may come. Maybe, but it doesn't have to, because it depends on the skillful support of the state in the process of modernising and changing the production profile. Therefore, the coal-lokox trade unionists expect specific plans for the development of their industry and resources for this purpose from the Minister. Protest action is ongoing, which will be suspended only after agreement has been reached. I would like to take this opportunity to remind the Minister that the deadline for your reply is until 4 October, and this is the next Monday. And we're not just talking about the steel industry, we're talking about a whole bunch of companies, often with huge potential, connected with mining and coal-based energy, which will have to reclassify or fall. Whether they survive or find themselves in the world of new green industry depends on state policy and the scale of support. The scale of the challenges is enormous. How we deal with them will depend on how Poland and Silesia will function, whether they will be in the vanguard of the new green revolution or in its tail. We need brave solutions. I would like to talk about ambitious solutions here myself, for example. a universal employment guarantee based on local governments and cooperative cooperatives. But I think it's pretty clear at this point that these numbers are unfortunately not with you. Minister! The employees of the mining administration of the Mining Company deserve the same treatment as the others, and the steel workers are waiting for your answer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These really aren't high expectations.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u536	Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u537	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Coalition Club, Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government bill amending the law on the functioning of hard coal mining and some other laws. The changes introduced in the project will allow for further acquisition of mines by the Company of Restructuring of Kopalń SA, which is responsible for the liquidation and restructuring of the employment of non-profitable mines. The rules allow RSK SA to purchase further mines from existing coal companies and finance their liquidation from a budget grant. The project also takes care of miners working in mines, which will be liquidated in the future. The draft law creates protective instruments in the form of mining holidays, holidays for employees of plants and mechanical conversion of coal or a one-off cash check of 120 thousand. zł. High Izbo! The problem of decarbonising our energy system and increasing emission-free sources in our energy mix is one of the most serious, if not the most serious, challenges facing our country in the next few years. The limitation of hard coal mining is inevitable for two reasons. First of all, the demand for this raw material is decreasing on the market. Secondly, we are forced by the European Green Deal, whose assumptions are extremely restrictive if we look at the share of coal in electricity production in our country. According to the European Commission, Europe is expected to become climate neutral by 2050 and Member States are expected to reduce by 55% by 2030. greenhouse gas emissions relative to 1990 levels. In order to achieve our goal, we are forced to reduce the production of coal energy, and thus gradually we will have to put out coal mines. In this process, we must remember the miners and workers of the mining sector, whose specialized education may make it difficult for them to change in the future. Today's project includes provisions in the form of briefings or leave which will allow miners to reach retirement age or allow them to seek a peaceful new job without fear of lack of means to survive. High Izbo! According to the Polish Coalition, a prudent energy transformation is a transition to the green side of power. Investment in renewable energy sources must go along with the extinction of successive mines. We must encourage Poles and Poles to install small home photovoltaic systems, and as a country we should invest in wind power plants in the Baltic. That is why, two years ago, we called for a reduction of the VAT rate to 8% for photovoltaic solutions. The investments in this energy segment must be accompanied by investments in transmission networks, those with high and low voltage, because the current produced at wind farms in Pomerania will have to be transferred to the south of the country. Ladies and gentlemen! Energy transformation and mine extinction is an inevitable process. However, this process should be reasonable, respecting the interests of the miners and in the care of their existence and the existence of their families. As Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, we will vote in favour of the procedated bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u538	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u539	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's not a transformation. It's a liquidation. It's not restructuring. It's surrender. This surrender has its specific names and its specific names. These names are PIS, PO, Left, PSL. For 30 years of your governments, the transformation in Silesia was associated with the sneaking away, it was associated with the smearing of successive company presidents, the co-workers, it was associated only with the worst, and it was rightly associated with this. For 30 years of your governments, your formations, which are unfortunately still represented in this Parliament. This is the years of the last decade, i.e. surrender to the European Union with its frivolous, inadequate climate policy. If today Poles ask where this expensive price comes from, this expensive price results, among others. from high electricity prices, and these high electricity prices from the fact that we have to eliminate our energy. Today, the Confederation as the only parliamentary force is clear: so far, round-top political forces lead us into a total collapse, not just energy, not just our energy-intensive industries, not just the heat and power plants, which will also have to pay climate quotas. They lead us to a general slowdown and economic collapse, to crazy electricity bills at home, at workplaces, at companies. And if you ask today, Poles, who is responsible for this, then they are all jointly and severally: PiS, PO, PSL and the Left. [[And the Confederation]] We call for EU climate and energy policy to be formulated. We call for a fight for the Polish pace of energy transformation. We call for the end of 30 years of inability, theft and destruction of what is Polish resource and Polish energy sovereignty. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u540	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u541	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! When we had our first reading of this law two weeks ago, I said that it was possible to get the impression that the legislators wanted to fool everyone at all costs, saying that we would treat the gangrene with a headache pill, just take more pills. Unfortunately, after work at the committee last night, my conclusions are exactly the same. You're trying to trick me into saying that the mines aren't going to be closed, just like you cheated, saying that the electricity prices aren't going to rise when it really threatened us for the first time two years ago. At that time I called on the government to finally invest and prepare not only a plan for the restructuring of the coal mine and brown coal mine, but also concrete compensation plans for the regions, for the workers, and above all - plans to invest in clean sources, in new sources of energy, creating especially for these mining regions, whether for Silesia or for Eastern Wielkopolska, from which I come, an opportunity to remain important producers of electricity. But unfortunately, the government is still not doing real things. The best evidence we've got today. Today in this room was the first reading of the revision of the budget. It turns out that this year the proceeds to the state's money from the sale of CO2 rights are not 10 billion, as you originally planned, only 24 billion. You got 14 billion zlotys more for this than you originally planned. How much more have you spent on energy development and energy solutions? Practically zero, 1400 grand. That's the truth. Members from Solidarna Polska or the Confederation blame the European Union for the fact that we have expensive energy through it. No, the way we have energy is because the government does nothing and just burns the money that should invest both in developing energy networks, solving problems in mining, and in creating new clean energy sources. Unfortunately, the biggest threat to Polish energy sovereignty is the Polish government, in this case the Government of Law and Justice, which is simply lying to us all, saying that taking a pill for a headache, we will cure gangrene. Of course, we will rather support simulation solutions (the bell), but as I said, we are still not talking about a real solution to the problem. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u542	Thank you. Members have asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. I'm closing the list of questions. As the first Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u543	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The biggest problem when we talk about mining is that the government of law and justice lies to people all the time. We have known for a long time that we will have to move away from coal, while PiS continues to maintain among miners that nothing like this will happen. You harm the miners, you harm Poland, which is worse, you harm the entire region where the extraction takes place, because if these decisions were obvious and the perspective - very clear, it would not be a problem to make decisions about transformation, to make conversation and then to decide. On the other hand, you are still holding it back, which makes the situation of the entire Silesian voivodship worse. But, Minister, you also leave mine workers who are private mines, e.g. in Czechowice-Dziedzice. I'm asking you to (the bell) to tell the Minister... Mr Tomasz Nowak, Civic Coalition. ...will their rights be aligned with the rights of employees... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u544	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u545	Minister! Mr. Marshal! I will be stubbornly asking for brown coal, Eastern Wielkopolska and other regions of brown coal mining. The question is why, when the European Union, when talking about a fair transition, believes that a fair transformation must be done in all mining areas regardless of the property that is assigned to these districts, you want to make compensation and cover only for miners working in state mining companies. It can't be like this. Please, Minister, tell me why Minister Sasin thinks that there should be no miners in NABE from Wielkopolska East. Or what? Because they are other people than those who work (the Bell) in Silesia or in Belchatów? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u546	Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy? Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u547	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the proposed law, the government refers to the need to support the restructuring of mining, the retraining of miners and the development of mining sites. This explains the dramatic decline in demand for coal and hence the low prices of raw materials, much lower than the actual costs of extraction. It also mentions that this situation is caused by very low gas prices. I don't know if the government has an orientation on global commodity prices, but it probably does. For the time being, we have the highest gas prices in many years and open markets for coal. The price of coal on global stock exchanges has been highest since 2008. Experts predict that this trend is upward and may persist over a long period of time. Therefore, I have a question and I ask for a written reply. In this situation, will the statutory purposes we are presenting change? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u548	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u549	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yes, the decision has already been made to liquidate the mines, we have a social contract, you agree, you admit that the mines have to be destroyed, they are inefficient today. That's what we heard in this courtroom, but you signed, Minister, a social contract in Silesia. In this social agreement, Minister, you have committed yourself to drawing up a final bill on the establishment of the Silesian Transformation Fund. The trade unions, the social side, presented the project by 31 May. You were supposed to make comments by August 15th and present him by September 30th. Minister, I'm asking you what you're gonna do at the site of the mine that was destroyed in Hawk-Zdroj. What jobs will be created in this area? What kind of workplaces will be created? Who's gonna run this area? When will we get the promise in the social contract (the bell) of the draft fund bill for Silesia? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u550	Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u551	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed rules introduce differentiated rates for social security miners - 75% and 85% salaries. In the opinion of the Government's Legislative Centre, this may raise doubts. Does differentiated treatment of persons in a similar situation meet the criteria of the constitutional principle of equality set out in Article. 32 constitutions? In addition, I would like to point out that during the work in the PiS committee, by a majority, it rejected the amendment which consisted in the inclusion in the Act of the Government's commitment to present annual accounts on the implementation of the Act. Question: "How do you want to ensure clarity and transparency when it comes to spending funds?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u552	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u553	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This law once again sanctiones the unequal treatment of brown coal miners and hard coal miners. As my previous speakers mentioned, the miners from eastern Wielkopolska, Turku and Konin, who are employees of a private mine, unfortunately cannot receive the aid provided for in the provisions of this law. They're asking directly if when President Andrzej Duda was in Konin and said he'd take care of this case, that he'd fight for them... Today, when we have this bill, it's time to say, "I'm checking." I would therefore like to ask: What forms of support offered by the State will be launched and available to the coal miners from Eastern Wielkopolska? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u554	Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u555	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! How many of you were on the streets of Polish cities last Friday to protest against the climate? Unfortunately, I can't see the forest of hands. After all, the government clearly states that by the end of this decade most of the energy is still to be produced from Russian coal. Apparently, young people, whom you so often speak affectionately about, understand much more than grown-up politicians in suits. We need to become neutral in terms of emissions, and that requires us to move away from all non-renewable energy sources. How much longer do electricity prices have to go up so you can see it and start working? How many more floods, droughts and fires do we need to see you stop burying your head in the sand? You are so steadfast in the death of innocent people at the police stations and at the border, and in the face of real challenges like the climate, you are just cowards. When are we going to see a plan for a fair energy transition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u556	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Artur Soboń now has the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Activities. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u557	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I hope I have carefully recorded all the votes in this discussion. I will start by saying that, of course, I am obliged and I believe that the fact that all the clubs that spoke during this debate have announced joint work and, at the same time, voted in favour of further work on the bill yesterday, will also make it possible for the whole House to adopt the amendment of the law together on Friday. It seems to me, despite all the differences between us, this issue should not be the subject of a political dispute. We solve an important social problem and we do it in a way that is proven and best for the interested, i.e. miners who leave individual individuals - in this case from Peace and from Jastrzębie III - with adequate social protection, whether in the form of one-off cash checks or in the form of mining or processing holidays. Mr Gadowski mentioned the basis. The European Council decision of 2010 is the basis for these amendments. Today I am working on a new solution to which I am convincing the European Commission. This is a new aid solution for not only an instrument in the form of exceptional costs in the process of decommissioning, but also aid for production reduction, a mechanism that was in force until 2018. It is important that we all understand the mechanism of one-off cash checks or earlier holidays, and why it is used only in the case of active mines to be liquidated and not in the case of mines which are already in the process of winding up as part of the Company's operations in the restructuring of mines. Such a situation is mentioned in the case of the Makoszowy Mine. The situation of this mine is different from that of the mines being liquidated. Decommissioned mines have their own system of social checks and liquidation of assets. They enter the Company for Restructuring of Mine. Everyone who works at the S.R.K. today has a guaranteed job. I have agreed to meet with the representatives of this group of people on the basis of the doubts that you expressed at the committee's meeting with Mrs Zielińska. I think this will be clearly explained. The President of the SRK will be present tomorrow at the committee meeting. If there are questions about the SRK itself, we will answer these questions. The assortment is different because this coal, which has been a conversion factor so far, is on a small market today, so it has to be more comparable coal. [[And the price?]] The price is close, too. I can't remember her. I texted you the exact amount last night. [[Inaccurate. Over 40 PLN.]] I sent you the exact amount from the report from the Industrial Development Agency. You also know very well, sir, that the state of employment is at the date of liquidation. This provides some flexibility for both companies, the Polish Górnicza Group and Jastrzębska Węglowa Company, and this is a good mechanism for both companies, so it is a shame to dwell on this specially, because I think we all know what it is about. Mr Necessary mentioned a private entity. His voice appeared several times. I want to make it clear - because I understand that it goes with, among other things. Silesia mine, which I was also asked about here - that we are only talking about mines in liquidation. If we are talking about this form of shielding, there is no private mine today in liquidation, which would be reported to the Company for Restructuring of Mines, so it is an empty collection. I made an appointment for October 4th at the time. 15 to present to the steel industry - the steel industry that we have today within the Węglokoks group - my reference to their proposals and this will happen. On 4 October, as promised, I will meet with representatives of companies in this area. I reply to Mr Winnicki, who is not here, and Mr Sterczewski. It is a little bit like that we as Law and Justice - but I will allow myself for a moment of political input, as you gentlemen and ladies allowed, so I apologize - we are the voice of realism in the energy policy of the state, because crazy voices to do it faster, without looking at social costs, social consent, energy security of Poland, this is one side of the coin, and the other side is: let us do nothing despite penalising coal-based energy production and even reject the possibility of supporting transformation processes with European means at all. These are two extreme positions. Law and Justice say, let's make a transformation, but let's spread it out in time, ensure social consent, ensure energy security... [[Build new jobs.]] ...let us build new jobs and use European funds for this. Only the Law and Justice are the voice of realism here. Isn't there a social agreement? Social agreement is. It is thanks to our conversations, the treatment of miners with respect - I will no longer talk about how you treated miners - that agreement has been reached and today this agreement is implemented, among others. by these laws. But those who are interested in it also know that we are working on a big bill that will cover all the issues we have written. At the moment we are also talking to the authors of the law on the Silesian Transformation Fund, this is our common idea. The Ministry of Development is developing a project that will respond to the expectations of the social side, and it will indeed go to the Sejm. [[Tomorrow.]] And the Member will be able to consult whether to comment on this project - but that is the outcome of our agreements, local governments and the social side - when the social side accepts our proposal for these provisions, which the social side has prepared to a large extent. [[September 30th. They've accepted.]] Mr Szopiński asks if changing market conditions changes the long-term trend. No. Of course, today we have a special situation on the market. It is unique in terms of the anomaly of high prices of energy carriers, electricity alone, electricity production, but we want to continue this process in the long term, we want to spread it over time, we want to support it with these two public aid instruments so that it can be implemented in the social peace. On the other hand, I will answer the question of whether there will be a solution for brown coal miners. That was Mr Tomaszewski's question, Mr Nowak, and the Members also asked that question. We are discussing this - today I have conducted another round of discussions within the framework of the social agreement for electricity and brown coal mining - and these talks will be followed by both the business part, i.e. part of the agreement between employers and employees within what we call the National Energy Security Agency and legislative solutions. Of course, legislative solutions will be common solutions, as they will apply to all to whom they will be addressed. But it's probably gonna take some time to make that deal. We are going back to the teams and we will work within these teams, but accusing me that these solutions are not developed in dialogue - we are also scheduled to meet with ZE PAK at the beginning of October - it is a missed charge, because most of my time today I am spending on dialogue and working out together these solutions which we recommend to you later, and I hope that they will be accepted unanimously by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u558	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Legislative Commission on the Commission's draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system (prints Nos 744 and 1555). I ask Mr Daniel Milewski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u559	Dear Marshal, The Legislative Commission, after considering this draft law, taking into account two amendments which have been incorporated into the text during the work of the Commission, asks the High Sejm to adopt the draft law submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u560	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Daniel Milewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u561	Ladies and gentlemen! We would like to make an amendment in which the words "city of the capital city of Warsaw" are replaced by "city of the capital city of Warsaw." Thank you kindly and thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u562	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Osos, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u563	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition club vis-à-vis the committee's report on the Commission's draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. Amendments were tabled during the committee's work. The first amendments were voted together with the amendments to the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Lawyers. As a club, we did not support these amendments because of the doubts that these amendments do not go beyond the scope of the submission, which is a set of technical changes related to outdated terminology. In addition, as confirmed by the Opinions of the Supreme Bar Council and the National Chamber of Legal Counsels, they did not indicate that there were interpretation problems concerning the provisions that included these amendments. Another substantive amendment, which was tabled for the project, did not support the fact that the amendment also raises doubts about the scope of the proposal. The change seems reasonable, but should not be proceded in this project. As a whole, we will support the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u564	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Kucharska-Dziedzic, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u565	Anita, Mr. Marshal, but it's late. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! What does lawmaking look like in Poland? What's the legislative process like? The legislative initiative belongs to the President, the Government, the Senate, at least 15 Members, the Sejm Committee or at least 100,000. citizens having the right to elect the Sejm. But it is also enough for one determined citizen to convince the Committee on Petitions that his bill is worth considering, submitting, parliamentary discussion and introducing into the Polish legal order. The draft law is the reaction of the Committee on Petitions of the Polish Parliament to a petition by Mr Sebastian Adamowicz, which the committee considered to be legitimate. The representative of the public has decided to improve the terminology mess that Parliament has prepared. In 13 laws, he noted the need to adapt the terminology in them to the current legal situation. In 13 laws, the citizen noticed the legislative mess and the lack of diligence and integrity of the law-making process not only in the language but also in terminology. Almost every Pole can give an example of some wrong law, an inconsistent rule, the need to be content with legal opinions, because the rules are unclear, inconsistent, mutually exclusive or, as the legislation in pandemics has shown, not in accordance with the constitution. All of this undermines the authority of the law and the state. A good law cannot be created if agreement procedures are omitted. If the rules are of low quality, they don't work properly. They must cause confusion and the need for interpretation. The author of the project justifies that the essential social and legal effect of the proposed law will be to improve the coherence and transparency of the legal system for citizens, because expert opinions reveal the opinion that lawyers and courts are perfectly able to cope with this mess of terminology. However, the law, let us be very clear, is for citizens, all citizens, regardless of the so-called. level of education, occupation, resources or place of residence and views. That's so-called. A statistical citizen is to consider the right to be consistent, clear and not to be lost in terms and references to the repealed provisions. The authority of the law and the authority of the state depends on it. The Left Parliamentary Club considers that the draft law required legislative and editorial refinement, in particular to update the publication of the amended laws. We are pleased that this project has had good legislative work in the Legislative Commission, as should always be done, not only with this legislative initiative. And if this had always been the case, the project itself and the next projects in this House would not have been needed by an ambitious and attentive citizen. It is a lesson for all of us, parliamentarians, government and president, a lesson given by the citizen to their representatives. The Left Club supports this presentation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u566	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bejda, Coalition Poland - in writing. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u567	It is a simple and non-controversial law that improves certain terminological inconsistencies in our legal system. Actually, there's nothing to get attached to. It is such an excuse to talk a moment about how inconsistent, uncoherent and often sloppy our law is. I could attach myself here to such questionable sometimes Polish legislation and return unnecessary macaroniisms. Always me, for example. wonders what our legislator in the official language of the Republic of Poland means shortcuts: CIT, PIT and VAT. Shortcuts such as those in Polish are developing. I could attach myself to how poorly prepared laws often come, projects from ministries. I don't understand why the Ministry couldn't sit down with the Legislative Office earlier and explain those doubts before it got to the committee meeting. Because often, for 3/4 of the time of the committee's meeting, or longer, discussions are ongoing between the Minister and the Legislative Office on whether or not to change such a word to another word. Really, write it properly first, and then, at committee meetings, let us only talk about matters that require attention from Members. I could be picking on these things here, but actually, it's not even that you use bad words in these laws, it's that there's too many of them. This paper containing the committee's report is already number 1555, and we are not yet in the middle of our term of office. Every session of this Sejm is a dozen new laws. Who's gonna read all this? Who's gonna get to know all this? Members don't read it. Members do not understand. Members don't know that. Lawyers don't know that. No one in this legislative jungle gets caught anymore. These fast-tracked projects simply pour out of here in an absolutely uncontrollable way, on the whole of Poland, just like a real plague, worse than the COVID. Our problem is legislative diarrhea. What we, actually, most of you, need, is a legislative Stoperan, a legislative measure for this diarrhea. I think any doctor would write it down for you to use in the morning and evening. And I'm leaving you with that wish.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u568	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u569	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the Commission's draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. High Izbo! The proposed law, as has already been mentioned here, is the response of the Committee on Petitions to a petition addressed to the Sejm by a private person, whom the committee considered a legitimate petition. This petition aimed at making legal terminology more consistent in several legal acts. And, of course, it seems that such actions are very well founded, but it is also worth mentioning that a similar role can be played, as pointed out by the Supreme Bar Council, the institution for announcing the single text. It is therefore clear that the failure to publish uniform texts is reflected in a petition to Parliament by the citizen. Of course, there would not have to be this petition if this work had been done in accordance with the rules. Another thing we see in the process of this project is the result of hurried legislation, rapid adoption of projects that we have seen in recent years in Parliament. In fact, there are few laws on which a genuinely adequate legislative act is being dealt with, which does not contain errors or errors, which clearly indicates how citizens should behave after such a standard has been adopted. Therefore, this petition also calls for Parliament to be silently called on, however, for the law to be adopted in a manner that meets the requirements of high-quality legislation. Despite suggestions, among others. It is from the NRA, which points out that this legislation is not entirely justified, that we will, of course, support solutions which will contribute to the fact that our legislation is appropriate. On the other hand, from this point of view, I would like to end by expressing my expectation to the marshal and all committees that the legislation will be dealt with in a way that ensures the high quality of the legislative act, because it is clear that citizens expect it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u570	We have envoys for questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Andrzej Szewiński, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u571	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this term of office, we are witnessing the excavation of many so-called excavations. legislative gniths, although good laws often enter the Sejm. My question is: Is it good legislative practice to unify the catalogue of definitions and to correct legislative errors in various laws that are defective and not consistent by implementing a separate law? Wouldn't it be better not to write some laws on our knees, to direct projects to public consultation, and for us parliamentarians to deliver draft laws earlier, so that we can often lean over this complex matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u572	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u573	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is addressed to the representative of the committee, if he is here in the plenary room. In the course of the examination of this project, substantive comments were made by various opinion bodies, including the government. I wanted to ask you this, because this is a peculiar situation, however, that much has been made regarding the legislative act that is to improve our legal system, as it turns out, legitimate comments regarding its content. Hence my question: Was this project properly analysed by the Office of Sejm Analysis and refined before it was placed under the High Chamber's deliberations? However, the situation in which the act to be corrected needs to be corrected should not take place in the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u574	Member Jan Szopiński, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u575	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After reading the proposed amendments, I do not fully agree with the fact that some of them lead to better understanding and consistency of laws. There is a provision that exclusion does not apply to scientific and educational workers. The developer proposes to replace this provision by a provision stating that the prohibition does not apply to research and teaching workers. However, this leaves, in my opinion, an open window for interpretation, whether or not a given work is research-based, so it introduces the opposite consequence to the assumed one. However, there are more such entries, and therefore the whole project requires the process, analysis and answer of the question whether the real consequences (the Bell) that we want to achieve are included there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u576	I don't think your envoy's here. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u577	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today you are talking about improving the consistency of the terminology of the legal system. I therefore ask how this applies to projects prepared by the government and by Minister Czarnek, according to which you wish to search, accuse, punish directors and teachers with a penalty of 3 years imprisonment for exceeding your rights or failing to fulfil your duties. What is the connection with the terminology coherence of the legal system with this project? It is clear to the naked eye that the government's rules are deliberately vague, imprecise, biased interpretation only so that there is a basis for prosecuting those who do not follow the Law and Justice, or those who, God forbid, dare to exercise their civil rights against the PiS and protest against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u578	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Marcin Warchoł has the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. You're welcome, Minister. There weren't many questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u579	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The project is an expression of many postulates that influenced, among others. to the committee, but also to us, to the ministry, as well as to carry out a number of important tasks, e.g. such as clarification of terminology in the scope of the Code of Offences, determining whether punishment and punishment are the same. Of course, we also clarify a number of issues in this particular element. We know that these are two different measures and that penalties cannot be confused with criminal measures, and therefore appropriate changes are being made. In addition, we see changes in the field of such important for all Poles institutions, such as. the determination of the child's fatherhood or recognition of the child or recognition of the child's fatherhood, because I would remind you that the law which entered into force in 2009 changed one term to another and therefore raised questions. Similarly, there have been doubts in practice as to whether the annulment of the recognition of a fatherhood is a the same as determining the inefficiencies of recognition. These are important things, which is why I wouldn't underestimate it, like someone in the bleacher said here. It is important for Poles that administrative matters are dealt with quickly and seamlessly, not on the basis that an official is sitting with the other and is concerned about whether recognition of a father is the same as recognition of a child. That's why it's a good and necessary bill. Two words about the amendments. The amendments proposed, High Izbo, are making important changes, above all, as to whether the prosecutor who is at rest can give up this state of rest when he becomes a judge. At this point, there may be a paradoxical situation in which, although he is at rest, he can be a judge at the same time, which of course must be eliminated. This is where the amendment was introduced, for which I thank Mr Milewski. Similarly, in the case of a very important change concerning all young people who apply for inclusion in the list of lawyers or legal advisers. We know that opening up competitions is a great credit to the Law and Justice of 2005 and 2006, but to this day, unfortunately, many bar and counsel chambers interpret these rules in a way that limits young people's access to legal professions. And here a very important change is being made - and I thank Mr Milewski for that too - in order to cut the question of interpretation. What were they? Well, if someone has a doctorate in law, they also practice in different institutions. It may be performed before, during or after the doctor's degree. Unfortunately, the lawyer interpreted it in such a way that only the practice before obtaining a doctor's degree allows for inclusion on the list. However, we prejudice these doubts in a way that extends the opportunities of young people, so both the practice before and during the acquisition of the title or even after it will give them such opportunities. These are important changes that are needed, which is why I ask the High House to accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u580	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u581	High Seym! Mrs. Marshal! I will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, ED, Conservatives regarding the report of the committee on the Commission's draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the consistency of the terminology of the legal system (prints Nos 744 and 1555). This bill is the reaction of the Committee on Petitions of the Polish Parliament to petitions addressed to the Sejm. The purpose of the Act is to make minor changes to 13 laws adapting terminology to the current legal situation. The introduction of these amendments will make it easier for the addressees of the amended acts to understand and apply them correctly. In the course of its work, the Commission adopted an amendment to the law amending the Law on Lawyers concerning amendments to the list of lawyers and a similar amendment to the law on Legal Counsels, as well as an amendment to the legal situation of the prosecutor appointed as Judge. The Coalition Poland Club will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u582	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Legislative Commission in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 29 September this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. First... Wait a minute, we don't have a list. But maybe there's someone with a statement already? Yes, there are Members. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u583	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I would like to talk about two logistical, transport and regional problems, which occur in two counties, in the Zawiercie district and in the Będzin district. The first problem concerns the Zawiercie district, where 2 years were promised to implement the investment, and it has not been started so far, which is very important from the point of view of the inhabitants of Zawiercie district with particular attention to Poręba and Zawiercie. I'm talking about the ring road of these two cities right now. Another element that makes life difficult for the inhabitants of the Śląskie voivodship, in the district of Będzińskie, is the lack of a link with the Euroterminal in Sławko, which is located in the district of Będzińskie and which affects the city of Dąbrowa Górnicza. Also this element - the link, or transport section, which would facilitate and significantly improve the life of the residents of the district of Będzinsk and not only - is not implemented so far. This is because the various levels of the Ministry, the Marshal's Office, cannot agree on who should implement this investment. From this point on, I appeal to the Minister of Infrastructure, to the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship, so that they can finally establish it, agree and find funds for these two investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u584	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u585	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law contains provisions granting employees the budgetary sphere special incentive allowances for good work in 2021 - in a year in which the work of certain professional groups required special dedication and effort. I am therefore very surprised that the government deliberately or accidentally left out when planning incentive allowances for 2021 for employees of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, who also demonstrated a particular commitment this year in carrying out statutory tasks and additional tasks resulting from government activities during the epidemic. The employees of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture even at the worst times of the pandemic, when public offices and institutions of general interest were generally closed, supported Polish farmers and dealt with matters directly with the beneficiaries. As my constituents from the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship and farmers from other voivodships estimate, all tasks were carried out by agency employees in a very efficient and timely manner, in the sense of responsibility for the Polish village. That is why I call on the Minister of Agriculture, the Prime Minister and the Members of the United Rights not to block the granting of incentive allowances for 2021 also to staff of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and to agree to a change in this issue of the government bill at the time of the process in the Sejm. These allowances, Minister and Prime Minister, should be given above all to the staff of the county offices, thanks to which the agency operates on a daily basis and through which government support programmes of farmers and restructuring programmes of the Polish village are implemented. High-class specialists who work in the county branches of the agencies in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship today receive salaries at the lowest national level, which I think should be a shame and at the same time an alarm signal for government decision makers. For today, the Ministry of Agriculture applies the policy of transferring new additional tasks to these offices, but it does not care at all about increasing the number of posts for them or increasing the remuneration of employees. Therefore, once again from this place I appeal to the government, to the majority of the parliament, to grant employees of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture the right to incentive allowances for good work and to include this professional group in the amended provisions of the Budget Act in their concern for the well-being of the Polish village and in their sense of decency. I'm very appealing for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u586	Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u587	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is also an appeal, my appeal on behalf of the inhabitants of Gołdapi, a city in Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship. In front of the inhabitants of this city is the vision of the liquidation of the paediatric unit in their county hospital due to the insolventness and lack of medical personnel. Gołdap is one of many cities in Poland, over which the spectrum of lack of medical care rises. Can you imagine the fear and panic of parents, guardians of children who will suddenly need help? The nearest facility is about 30 km away, leading to a path of dubious quality. Sometimes it's the minutes that really decide how to save a life. I call on the government to take action to save people's lives and finance county medical facilities. I appeal to the government for respect for medical services, for proper wages for medical rescuers, for the education of the next generations of our doctors. And some statistics, data from the CSO. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a balance sheet prepared by me. Hospitals between 2005 and 2018 in Poland: under the PiS government, about 40 hospitals, exactly 40 hospitals, were liquidated, under the Platform and PSL, the number of hospital units was increased by 108. Hospital branches in 2005 and 2018: under the PiS regime, their number decreased by 9732, under the Platform and PSL, by 11 971. What is PiS guided by taking medical services from Poles? Ladies and gentlemen, Poles can count and settle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u588	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u589	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to raise the issue of the exclusion of the inhabitants of Bielsko-Biała and the counties of Bielski, Cieszyński, Pszczyński and Żywietki. The Law and Justice representatives have repeatedly promised the people of our region to improve the conditions for communicating our region with other regions throughout the country. No one, I think, needs to be convinced that such communication through the railroad, because we are talking about this today, is extremely important. Rail transport usually reaches the city centers, which makes it more friendly to people. This is eco-transport, thanks to which we respect what surrounds us, our resources, our climate. But it is also the transport relatively most attractive in price, especially for independent trips, which, I think, each of us certainly has a lot in its account. And I think we should all support the development of rail transport as one that generates a lot of benefits. Unfortunately, these promises made by Members, or maybe candidates for Members of the Law and Justice, have proved to be uncoverable promises. I'm talking about rail transport in particular. Because, like the Law and Justice, he keeps saying that the predecessors destroyed the railroad tracks, whether it's true or not, it's the Law and Justice that keeps eliminating the rail connections, and that's sadly true. So instead of strengthening this mode of transport, unfortunately we have to fold this transport, and it is done in such a very, I would say, insolent way, creating e.g. two connections side by side and later showing that there is no interest in two connections. If two warehouses leave within 15 minutes, it is obvious that there will not be that much interest. On the other hand, if the warehouses were shot, e.g. By four hours, it would turn out that this interest is. Unfortunately, the Law and Justice act in this way, that's how they eliminate these connections, very often by running railway stations close to each other. This liquidation of rail links by Law and Justice is surprisingly surprising that further elements of the railway infrastructure are being renovated at the same time from the European Union's funds. It would therefore be logical to start more trains after these renovations so that the infrastructure works. If billions have been spent on it, it should also be used properly. Unfortunately, this doesn't happen, the tracks are being renovated, and then they're standing and destroying. Therefore, today, on behalf of the inhabitants of our region, I look forward to fulfilling the promises made during the electoral campaign by Members of the Law and Justice from this district, and launching with the next change of timetable of new rail connections both to the capitals of other voivodships and to places that are attractive touristly attractive, as well as to Warsaw. This is a state right, this is a very important element also in the transformation of climate change reduction. From this speaker, I would like to assure you that the people of our region will be watching closely whether the promises of the PiS politicians have been fulfilled or whether, like other promises, they have only been presented and the day after the election have been forgotten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u590	Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice. Are you an MP?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u591	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From this speaker I would like to remind you of another bloody pacification made by the German occupier in the area of the Thinking County during World War II. Here we are talking about the action carried out in September 1944 in Wiśniowa and Lipnik, in areas which became part of the so-called. The Republic of Raciechowicka. It was an area independent of the invaders, under the control of the troops and organizational structures of the National Army. In the whole Republic of Raciechowice during the pacification actions, the Germans murdered 132 people and burned 135 buildings. The first groups of conspirators composed mainly of former officers and reserve soldiers since the end of September 1939 began to secure weapons, ammunition and equipment left by the Polish Army. Soon, under the control and authority of the Polish Victory Service, and then the Polish Armed Forces and Home Army Association, there were other underground structures created in the area. In pre-war administrative division, the district of Thoughtnicki received a code name for Murawa. Since 1940, further field structures for intelligence, economic sabotage, arms storage and recruitment in underground structures of police officers, administrative representatives, etc. have continued to be established in the area. The military force of the circuit was initially called Murawa. a turf whose members, unlike the later guerrilla formations, were constantly in conspiracy. The first guerrilla troops appeared in the Thinking District in 1943. Soon the number of guerrillas, most of the deconspired members of the Their base became a forest complex in the Kamiennik and Lysina massif in the Thinking District. The pacification described in addition to Cherry and Lipnik also covered other villages. It was a manifestation of the Germans' brutality against the civilian population and powerlessness against the partisans of the National Army In the first hours of action, there was no indication that such a tragedy would occur. The German troops focused more on military purposes of the entire operation, that is, overcoming guerrilla groups holding control of the neighboring territories. At first, therefore, the Germans did not focus their attention on the civilian population. Some residents were hiding in nearby forests with some of their possessions. They were even calmed down by the Germans and encouraged to return to their homes. On Sunday, September 17th, the fire of buildings and the systematic arson of houses began. The Germans burned 9 farms and 23 more in the village of Lipnik in the pavilion of Czasław Żary. Another day, September 18th, was the most tragic. Early this morning, the Nazis launched a proper attack. A half kilometer wide belt has been designated, which has reached several villages. The gendarmes set up a tyralier and launched an attack on the defenseless people who were preparing for their daily duties. People were killed in their homes, bypasses and fields. At the time 77 inhabitants were murdered in Wiśniowa and 13 buildings burned down. In Lipnik, however, 126 buildings were consumed by fire and four people died. Among the victims were children, the youngest was 10 years old, and adults. The victims have been buried and are still resting in a cemetery in Wiśniowa. The martyrdom of the inhabitants commemorates a monument on a collective grave placed here. I pay tribute to this story to the memory of all the murdered inhabitants, as well as to the guerrillas of the National Army's district of Murawa, who led to the creation in 1944 of the local, independent and free territory of Poland - the Republic of Raciechowice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This feat allowed the local people to feel the desire for freedom for a while. Thank you very much. Hello and glory to all the heroes and victims of that time! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u592	Mrs Teresa Nolas, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u593	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! His watches were worn by Albert Einstein, Walt Disney, Lew Tolstoy, Czar Nicholas II, Queen Victoria, Maria Skłodowska-Curie and the entire rich world. Of course, we are talking about Antoni Norbert Patku, a world-famous manufacturer of Swiss luxury watches, who, as life has proved, was born in the Sands of the Nobles in Lublin. This historical fact became known by chance - a few years ago professor of Lublin University of Technology Andrzej Wac-Włodarczyk, looking for information about his ancestors in the law firm of the parish of Tarnogóra, came across his birth certificate from 1812. Little Antoine, born of the father Joachim Patka of the coat of arms Prawdzic and the mother of Anna Piasecka, spends his childhood years in the Sands of Szlachecki and from here as a ten-year-old goes away with his family to Warsaw. At the age of 16, he joins the regiment of horsemen, taking active part in the November Uprising, where he is wounded twice. For his sacrifice and valor he earned the rank of lieutenant of the Augustan ride. As a 19-year-old, he is awarded the Golden Cross of the Order of Virtuti Militari. Following the fall of the uprising, the authorities go to Prussia and then to France, where they work as a zacer in the printing press. Soon he leaves for Switzerland and settles in Geneva. There he meets Franciszek Czapek, a participant of the November Uprising, with whom in 1839 he founded a manufacturer of artistic pocket watches. It uses its outstanding sense of entrepreneurship and artistic ability. In 1844 he met French watchmaker Adrien Philippe at a presentation in Paris. After a year Antoni Norbert Patek starts his own company in which he employs and then makes partner of the French watchmaker. A world exhibition in London in 1851, where Queen Victoria buys an ornamented brooch-shaped watch that she will now wear on her wardrobe, becomes crucial for the development of their joint company. But entrepreneurship is not the only work by Anthony Norbert Patek. It also carries out as a philanthropist in charity and aid activities. It helps Polish emigrants after the defeat of the January Uprising, and most of them employ them in their factory. He is also involved in Catholic activities, for which Pope Pius IX distinguished him with the Count's title. In business with their co-worker, they focus on innovation, and their products quickly gain global fame. In 1869 they build one of the first wrist watches in history. The brand is also famous for the fact that apart from the hours the watch shows, among others. Moon phase and days of the week. And the most expensive watch in the world is of course Patek Philippe's watch, sold at auction in Geneva, and quoted by an anonymous buyer for $31 million. Antoni Norbert Patek, although confessing his longing and ties with his homeland, remains in exile for the rest of his days. He dies on 1 March 1877 in Geneva at the age of 65 and is buried there too. And only sometimes the white and red colors on his tomb remind us of the roots. His company is sold out over time, but his founding name remains until today. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased to announce that on 29 August this year. On the initiative of Andrzej Gołębie, director of the Regional Museum in Krasnystaw, and Lech Dziedzic, president of the Krasnostaw Historical Society, was restored the memory of Antoni Norbert Patk in public space, including in his home village, where he had a symbolic monument. On a huge stone extracted from his grandfather's field was placed in the very centre of Piast Szlachecki memorial plaque. The Swiss Deputy Ambassador Matthias Dettling, as well as representatives of the general government of all levels, church authorities and residents of the family village and surrounding area, came to the ceremony. An Antoni Norbert Patka's lifelike example prompts reflection, is the story and way of a little boy (The Bell) from one of the sublublin villages to the genius of the immortal fame of the Swiss company that the boy created. And we who have lived and are still alive... Thank you very much, Member. Mr. Marshal, just a second, because it's one sentence. ...so close to his home side, we are so proud of him. After all, it is the memory that unites generations, penetrates into the corners of the human soul, enriches, moves and carries with respect the reality of the next day everyone who is endowed with the sensitivity of his star. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u594	Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u595	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Council of Public Benefits of the 6th term of office, because I would like to say a few words about this council, passing its term of office today! So today I was extremely pleased to attend the plenary meeting of the Council of Public Benefit Activities, which summarized the entire sixth term of this body. I trust that a wide audience will be mobilized after this speech, that you will be mobilized to take a look at the council's funpage, so that you can familiarize yourselves with its composition, its achievements, and maybe, above all, discover for yourself, the citizens on whose behalf the Council speaks, what it is doing and what its role is in shaping civil society. Take the reference practically, and I will thus enter the space of reflection that is more generalized, verifying the answer to the question of what the governments of the United Right mean to civil society. The response developed during my cooperation with the Council of Public Use Activities and confirmed today's meeting with the giants of civil society - its current composition. There are people who are immeasurable, undisputed great achievements of organic work for many years and in various areas for civil society, as I said - civil society giants, for my own use also perceived by me as a barometer of the condition of civil society. They come from highly pluralized environments, representing the multitude of worlds of human activity, worldviews and existential-cultural-economic opportunities. They represent the full spectrum of the condition of human environments, which include their attention and sensitivity. Generally, they are mature people, burdened with colorful biographies, so that they are mindful of human affairs. And in anti-Nomies: economy or man, economy or civil society always choose the latter. I'm glad to meet such pragmatic sensibilities, that you still want to be on the side of a man. Governments change. The new crews are making promises to the poor, the homeless, the disabled, the unemployed, the excluded, the marked, the weaker. And it is you, members of the Council for Public Use, that you are the guardians, so that the word will not replace the action, that every action will be strengthened by the best possible version of the law. It is good that Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, notabene professor of sociology, whose passion was to analyze social movements and the formation of civil society, wisely, wisely and maturely built with your advice a subtle balance between the rulers and civil society, supporting your team indisciplineally, besides setting up their own projects, such as the National Institute of Freedom, the Centre for Civil Society Development and the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation. An important process for identifying the composition of the Monitoring Committee for the National Reconstruction Programme is ahead of us. Civil society's aspiration for participation is considerable and justified. This will probably be another verification test - we are in dialogue with the public or we are building a fortress. I trust that we will again pass the test positively, and it will also be a measure of whether your relentlessness, reliability, precision in the opinion of any draft laws and resolutions affecting the condition of civil society have brought this sensitivity and care for the quality of solutions into the legislative cycle of the United Right. Congratulations to the Council, thank you for her work, and I hope to see you in the next term. Happy birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u596	Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u597	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I wanted to raise a very important topic related to national archives, whose headquarters are developing intensively in our country. It is our government of Law and Justice and Professor, Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, who is very concerned about the development of this infrastructure, which in fact becomes a centre not only of analytics and science or the promotion of knowledge about previous years and centuries, but also of the exchange of thoughts. My dear fellow Members, this reflection was motivated by the fact that my home town, New Sącz, is already under construction at this moment of modern, state-of-the-art construction, which can also be described as the headquarters of the National Archives in Krakow. And Cracow, which already has a beautiful headquarters, and Nowy Sącz, who will practically join the cities next year with high standards of archives, can be said to be our pride. My fellow countries, the development of archivism, the development of this area is very important for the functioning of the state. It's not only easy access to documentation, easy access to information, even about the cadaver, about the distribution of parcels - it's also these centres, as I mentioned just now, scientific, where young scientists, people from local backgrounds, history enthusiasts can sit in reading rooms and explore or explore the beauty of history, in the beauty of these yellowed archived cards or photos and other materials that are obviously stored in these archives. Dear people, as a passionate of history, also a person who has repeatedly used national archives or cooperated with their troops, I will say that their functioning should be dynamically, at a rate like this, to continue to develop. I remember many actions carried out by these institutions, among others. about various kinds of competitions. In Nowy Sącz it was e.g. Barback competition. This year we celebrate the 130th anniversary of his birth, and it is 80 years since the death of this great painter from Nowy Sącz, who was shot. It was thanks to the New Sądecki branch of the National Archives that we were able to remember this person and survive. It's a special memorial event. So, ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you to use these facilities that are created for you, to broaden your knowledge so that you can pursue your passions, are created for memory and de facto legal order, as well as for preserving this treasurer of knowledge, such as files and documents, maps and photographs. It is worth to reach out to the national archives, which are very close to the state, but it is also worth remembering that the archives, which are often at your home or in the municipalities, or in the parishes, inform the nearest unit, which, if it has the ability to collect these archives, will certainly begin to develop, write and take over them for the benefit of future generations. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not worth leaving at home. It is worth sharing a piece of history, a piece of tradition, because it is these young people, these passionate people who may get to the information they need or write articles, will publish publications, books that will not only commemorate our ancestors, but will also promote our regions. In this regard, of course, I would also encourage all local authorities, where you have modern archives, as in Nowy Sącz - in a moment it will be 10 km of files that can be archived there, will be readable, there will be spaces for digitization of resources. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is the modern science, this is the modern archivistry, this is the future in which we should invest. I would very much like to thank the Prime Minister from this speaker in Parliament, to thank all the other people, also Minister Gawin, who deals with these matters, for the fact that we can enjoy these wonderful new objects, such as the objects already mentioned in Krakow and Nowy Sącz. So once again, thank you very much, and I encourage all of you to use this and to cooperate with the departments of national archives in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u598	Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u599	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendment of the Rail Transport Act of 24 March 2003 (Journal of Laws No. U. z 2020 pos. 1043) in Annex 1, which is a catalogue of elements of railway infrastructure exempt from real estate tax, has reduced the budgets of local government units. In connection with the principles of financial autonomy and tax autonomy of municipalities deriving from Article. 167 and 168 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland the loss of income requires compensation from another source or a possible reduction in the scope of public tasks to which the municipality is obliged. On 1 January 2017, the amendment of the Law of 16 November 2016 amending the Law on Rail Transport and certain other Acts entered into force (Journal of Laws No. U. z 2016 poz. 1923) amending the wording of Article. 7 Act of 12 January 1991 on local taxes and charges. The purpose of the amendment was to align national regulatory standards on rail transport with the amendment of European Union law, introduced by Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on the establishment of a single railway area and its implementing rules, as well as to amend the rules on rail transport of a sequencing and clarifying nature. These changes had a negligible impact on the financial situation of the municipalities. The catalogue of real estate tax exemptions was extended to include additional elements and included not only railway infrastructure buildings, but also buildings and buildings that are part of this infrastructure. This allowed for divergent interpretations. In the list of elements of the railway infrastructure, the components are defined in such a way that they include a number of elements which have not so far been considered as railway infrastructure, inter alia. land on which the infrastructure is located. The list of elements of the railway infrastructure shall include point 12 of the land marked as the registration parcels on which the elements listed in points 1 to 11 are located. It is sufficient, therefore, that any other element of the railway infrastructure is located on a given plot of land, so that the entire plot of land benefits from the tax exemption regardless of its area and regardless of its essential purpose. The experience from the four-year period of operation of the Act shows that it is necessary to compensate the government for losses in income and requires compensation for lost income. For example, due to the amendment of the Law on Rail Transport, the loss of the city of Braniewa in the years 2017 to 2021 is estimated at ca. 2670 thousand. zł. These are large amounts, especially for small municipalities, which, due to their number of inhabitants, cannot boast of high own influences. I appeal to the rulers to make these losses even. Further tasks and responsibilities continue to be imposed on local governments, but they do not go hand in hand with greater resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u600	Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u601	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 18 September 2021 in the Presidential Palace in Warsaw the final of the national competition for the circles of rural hostess for the prize of the President's Spouse of Poland took place. This competition is organized by the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland. It was initiated by Agata Kornhauser-Duda and under her honorary patronage. The theme of the competition was the celebrations and weddings. The winner of this year's edition was KGW Exhibitions from the municipality of Krasocin, which prepared the arrangement of the wedding table from 100 years ago with a rich farmer or the councilman, as well as dishes consumed at the wedding at that time and the verbal-musical-movement stage taken from the book Feliks Cancer. Around the Village Housewives with the Exhibition was established in April 2015. It maintains local folk, culinary and musical traditions. It promotes the municipality of Krasocin and Italian land. It has many successes at the level of the commune, district, voivodship, as well as the country. It is one of the most active circles in Świętokrzyskie voivodship. The Chairman of the KGW is Mrs Ewa Fęczek, and his activities are financed, among others. from the government and the state budget. The members of the wheels are willing to engage in various projects. In 2019 they won a culinary competition "Flavours of the Autumn" in Tokarnia. They performed in folklore presentations in Małogoszcz. In 2018 there was a film by the Kielce Infantry Brigade AK. The scene with their participation was recorded in the Ethnographic Park in Tokarnia. In 2020 KGW Exhibitions won in Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship in the competition "AriMR Circle" - in the heart of the village and took second place in Poland in the national final of this competition. The representatives of the circle also participate actively in extraordinary photographic sessions at the Kielce Village Museum in Tokarnia showing their past life in the countryside, agricultural work, customs and folk rituals. The activities of the KGW Exhibitions aim to activate women in areas such as social, cultural and educational areas, as well as in the development of women's entrepreneurship, and to cultivate, promote and consolidate the most valuable cultural regional traditions, among others. folklore, culinary traditions and handicraft activities, conveying interest in folk art to subsequent generations and raising young people in a spirit of respect for traditional values. I cordially congratulate the Village Housewives for their first place in the competition for the President's wife's prize. I commend you for your great contribution to the dissemination of Polish culture and tradition and I wish you further success. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u602	Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u603	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns Bogusław Mikus, an anti-communist opposition activist. On 24 September 2021 the first anniversary of the death of Bogusław Mikus passed. Who was he? Bogusław Mikus was born on 16 December 1954 in Chelm. In 1974 he graduated from the construction school there. In 1976 he became the head of the investment department of the Construction Works of WZGS Self-help Boys in Chełm, where he worked until 1979. He then worked for a year as a general contractor for the Chełmski Construction Company. He was among the people who formed the NSZZ Registration Committee in 1980. He was a co-founder, among others. The Information Bulletin of the Chełmski Region, as well as the Letter of the Self-Government. In his martial law he was interned, repeatedly detained and convicted. He printed underground press and was a member of the Underground Interim Council of Solidarity. He also worked as a correspondent for Radio Free Europe. From 1989 to 1990, he was Chairman of the Civic Committee in Chełm. In December 1989 he became a delegate at the Third General Meeting of the Chełm Region Delegates. Until 1991, he was the chairman of the region's management board. Bogdan, as his friends said, was an extraordinary man of great class, deserving of the city of Chelm. Public affairs were most important to him. For all this he paid the price, he was persecuted, couldn't find a job. He's never pushed into politics. In one of his interviews, he said he thought he was an amateur, and politics is for professionals. He had all the qualities of a man who could manage, reconcile people, he was a natural leader. Honored, among others. a badge Deserved for the Lublin Voivodeship and the title of Personalities of the City of Chełm. He died at the age of 65 on 24 September 2020. It stays in our memory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u604	Thank you very much. Mr Frederick Kapinos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u605	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! August 18th this year The end of Earth's journey of sleep has come. Fr. Józef Bukowiec's prelate. Without a doubt, he was a great priest, a great man, and a great patriot. The motto: God, honor, the homeland in his life found a real reflection. Sleep. Fr. The prelate was born on 29 January 1937 in Wojakowa village of the midwife in Małopolska Voivodeship as the son of Józef and Maria from the Tokarska house. He was educated in the Higher Seminary in Tarnów, and after completing his philosophical-theological studies on 29 May 1966 he received priestly ordination from the Bishop of Tarnowski, Jerzy Ablewicz. As a vicar he worked in parishes in the villages: Okulice, Rzezawa, Radgoszcz, Mystków, Lubcza, Cmolas, Zasów and in the parish of Our Lady of Continuing Help in Mielec. He also served as a parish priest in the parishes of Męcin Wielka, Krósanowice and Padew Narodowa. From the end of August 2010 until his death he was a resident in the parish of St. Holy Trinity in Mielec. Nearly half the period of priestly ministry sleep. Fr. Józef Bukowce's prelate fell into difficult times of communism in Poland. It was a time of real trial for him, both as a priest and as a man. He never bowed down, never made any compromises with the authorities, and he persisted to the end in his beliefs. The communist criminal regime had a hard experience of him, and for his unbreakable attitude, he was asleep. Fr. The prelate paid a high, also health price. Nevertheless, he always said what he thought, regardless of the consequences, not for his own fame, not for the honor, but for the glory of God, for his homeland and for his compatriots. He didn't want to talk about what he did. He was extremely modest. He cared about commemorating others. It is worth mentioning here that in his home town he founded a monument to the Blessed Virgin Mary. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, who paid the highest price for speaking about God and Homeland during the communist regime. He also published at his own expense a publication about our distinguished compatriot Ignacy Łukasiewicz, who was born in the village of Zaduszniki in the municipality of Padew Narodowa. Sleep. Fr. The prelate, Józef Bukovce, was zealously fulfilling his priestly duties. He was very devoted to the affairs of his parishioners. High involvement of sleepers should also be marked. Fr. The prelate in the matter of the mission was very helpful in organizing missionary festivals that took place in Wadowice Upper, and as soon as he could. supported missionaries. We worked together on these two matters, and I always admired how much he was concerned about the situation and working conditions of clergymen who preached the good news thousands of miles from our country. A beautiful honor of his way of life was granted to him in 2018 in the 100th anniversary of our country's regaining independence of the Golden Cross of Merit. As president of the city of Mielce, I had the honour and pleasure of applying for this award. The clergy, family, friends, friends, representatives of the parish where he worked, said goodbye to sleep. Fr. the prelate of Józef Bukowce during the funeral ceremony on 21 August this year, which took place in the parish of St. Holy Trinity in Mielec. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u606	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u607	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the port of Gdynia near Kei stands one of the most famous Polish sailors - Zawisza Czarny. This is a legendary ship, POL-1 registration number, and it's been operating as a sailboat for 60 years. A participant of countless races, trips around the world, cruises around the Horn or behind the Arctic wheel. This is a yacht where the experience gained a plait of the best Polish sailors to mention only the war hero Bolesław Romanowski, the scout Jan Ludwig, the recently deceased Mira Urbaniak or the present captain of this sailor Waldemar Mieczkowski. Two weeks ago, the hangman was supposed to sail to Saint Malo. In all six stages of this cruise more than 150 people were to take part - scouts and scouts, sailors and sailors. Due to the very serious financial problems of the company - the Marine Education Centre, a ZHP-dependent foundation, the cruise was cancelled on the eve of the beginning. It's hard to even imagine what those hundreds of young people for whom it was supposed to be a life cruise thought. But the problem is far more serious. The Black Hangman is standing in the port and it is not known whether he will ever sail. The scouting foundation is insolvent today, and the permanent crew of the sailing ship is free of charge because they still believe that this fatal situation can be reversed. After Joseph Conrad, you could say that in ports yachts rust and sailors go to dogs. But that's not the point of whining today. Today I want you all, from right to left, to call for us to save the "I owe you" to save this symbol of Polish sailing. You, Minister of Education, overseeing the Maritime Education Center, you, Mr President, honorary patron saint of the Polish Scouts Association, all on the right and on the left, which is a nice legend of Polish sailing. Sailing doesn't have party colors. He's got the sea, we're all on the same side. Let's save you!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u608	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u609	Declaration on The 40th anniversary of the establishment of the Independent Student Association. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last week we celebrated a unique anniversary - it has been exactly 40 years since the first meeting of representatives of the NZS provisional founding committees at the student house of the Warsaw University of Technology took place. Following the adoption of the Statute, the Independent Student Association applied to the court for registration, which was rejected by the communist authorities. Thus began the largest student occupation strike in Europe. 47 requests included, among others, the release of political prisoners, the prohibition of admission to university premises of officers of the Civic Militia and the Security Service, the possibility of celebrating patriotic anniversaries, the freedom to choose foreign language learning, as well as the lack of coercion to learn political subjects, the reform of historical textbooks, university autonomy and, of course, the registration of the Independent Student Association, which finally happened in 1981. After the introduction of martial law, the Independent Student Association was delegated to transfer its activities to the underground. Currently it operates in 50 universities and counts about 5 thousand. Members. Thank you with all my heart to all the students who fought for free and democratic Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u610	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I strongly protest against the statements by Mr Janusz Kowalski on the liquidation by the PO, the German Minority and PSL in the Opole Voivodeship of the 40-bed branch of psychiatry in the Voivodship Specialist Hospital in Opole and in connection with the appeal of the Member to the Minister of Health to stop the liquidation of further health services in the Opole Voivodship. Mr Kowalski's words aim to distract from the real problems in health care, for which the government is responsible in Poland. First of all, it is not true that the coalition consisting of KO, German Minority and PSL has eliminated a 40-bed psychiatry unit. The activity of this branch was suspended, due to lack of medical staff, and not terminated. In view of this very difficult situation, the director of the hospital at ul. In Opole, he asked the local government of the Opole Voivodship to appoint a psychiatric care and medical institution. This facility will provide the same benefits as the suspended psychiatry unit. After the suspension of the hospital branch, this will work, apart from ZOL, also two other psychiatry departments, so that the scope of benefits to residents will not change. The voivodship government is not responsible for the situation because it is caused by the absence of doctors who would like to work in a hospital at ul. Water supply. Equally important is the lack of sufficient funds to finance psychiatric benefits in the Opole Voivodship. Director of the Department of Social and Health Policy in Opole Voivodeship Office has committed the Director of Opole's NFZ to work at headquarters to increase the resources for benefits in the field of psychiatry in Opole. Even the Opolskie Voivodeship Office therefore sees that these measures are not sufficient. All the more so, then, it should be understandable to everyone how much trouble it is to maintain a branch. Director of the hospital at ul. The water main tried to save the situation by taking all possible measures to supplement the vacancies. Unfortunately, even the prospect of attractive earnings did not convince us to work in a hospital, including doctors from outside the region. Finally, I would like to stress that the psychiatry department can be suspended at any time. If the funds are guaranteed and doctors are willing to work, the branch can resume its activity on an old basis at any time. The problem is not only about our voivodship, it is a nationwide problem. He experiences it, for example. also Dolnośląskie voivodship. And that's where the hospital directors are forced to close or suspend psychiatric wards. For months, hospital representatives have reported their problems to the Ministry. Unfortunately, despite many appeals, the matter remains unresolved and growing. Therefore, once again, I would like to call on the Minister of Health to present as soon as possible solutions that will remedy the current situation in terms of lack of staff and financial resources for psychiatry. It should also be stressed that local authorities, within their limited financial capacity, can only correct certain shortcomings of the system - real tools and resources have a government in this regard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u611	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Last week, September 21st, we celebrated the World Day of Alzheimer's Disease. This day has been celebrated since 1994. The purpose of establishing such a day is to raise public awareness and combat stigmatisation of disease and disease. It is in September that Alzheimer's organisations around the world organize various educational and information events, marches, media campaigns and fundraisers for their activities. While such campaigns are usually successful because they increase awareness of the disease, stigmatisation, lack of reliable information, lack of support services for the sick and their loved ones are a global problem in the fight against this disease. This disease is one of the most serious diseases associated with civilization, accelerated pace and technosis of life. It should also be noted that progress in various areas of medical science, as well as improving living conditions, increases the average length of human life, which increases the likelihood of dementia, especially Alzheimer's disease. The problem is serious and constantly growing. In Poland statistics show that about 500,000 people currently suffer from Alzheimer's disease and other dementias. by 2050, the number of patients will rise to 1.3 million. Alzheimer's disease involves all family members. The caretaker of the sick person is most often the spouse, including the elderly. Many years of long-term, 24-hour care is a huge psychological and physical burden, it can be so exhausting that it leads the caretaker to a complete loss of strength and health. An important support for these families is the form of specialized daily residence homes where the patient remains under the supervision of properly prepared staff. At present, such centres are few, and their coverage does not solve this problem to a large extent. That is why I believe that this is where we should be able to agree so that we can create a number of solutions together in order to help people who are ill and in large part their families. Supervision of an Alzheimer's person must be ensured for 24 hours. In a large number of cases, families cannot fulfill this obligation, which translates into the various dangers that the sick face. Many European countries have seen this problem and taken appropriate action. In 2009, the Council The European Parliament has adopted a declaration on making Alzheimer's disease a priority for health policy in the countries of the European Union, recommending the development of national Alzheimer's plans. Such plans are already being implemented in many countries in the Community. They allow proper organisation and funding of care for this particular group of patients. The assumptions of the Alzheimer's plan for Poland were developed by the Alzheimer's Coalition, which is created by the Polish Alzheimer's Organization Agreement and the Polish Alzheimer's Society. The assumptions of the national Alzheimer's plan for Poland were passed on to the Ministry of Health in 2011. The development and implementation of the Polish Alzheimer's plan by the government is becoming the most important challenge in order to define a comprehensive strategy of action in the fight against Alzheimer's disease, taking into account the particular situation and role of families of patients. That is why I call once again on politicians of all groups and governments to fight this disease together so that we can ensure the safety and care of the sick and their families. Next year, I would like Poland to be shown as a country which is an example in Europe and the world in providing comprehensive treatment and care for people suffering from Alzheimer's disease. It is impossible not to mention the sick themselves and their families here. I wish you perseverance in fighting the adversity of fate and the constant fight for health. The best wish for you should nevertheless be a wish to succeed in overcoming this disease.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u612	History of history in Piotrków Trybunalski The beginning of history education still within the Faculty of the University of Pedagogical Education in Kielce is located in 1997, when the then Ministry of National Education granted permission for a five-year Master's degree in history, thus appreciating the forming academic community in the Piotrków region. From the very beginning of the existence of a direction within a separate institute, the authorities were two-way caring for its development and quality of education, successfully gathering staff, graduates of leading universities of the country (Warsaw University, Jagiellonian University in Cracow, University of Cracow). Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań, University of Łódź), and they were able to integrate representatives of the region around the institute. An important contribution to the history of the region is the number of students, scholarships of the Minister of Education and Science. For several years, a representative of history has received a scholarship every year to become actively involved in activities related to social responsibility of science (organization of conferences, volunteering within the Piotrków University of the First Age or educational activity at the Marzipan Museum). Scientific conferences, including many cyclical ones, are also an important element of history's activity. They are organized both by the strict environment Scientific (e.g. The National Scientific Conference of the Baltics in the Byzantine perspective in the 1000th anniversary of the Battle of Kleidion, the National Scientific Conference of the Polish Wars in the last year of World War II, the 4th National Scientific Conference of the Left. PPS and legions, the popular science conference, 100 years of State Police, Historical Workshops to the end of the faithful... Martyrology of the State Police in the East, the National Scientific Conference of the Church's role in preserving the integrity of Polish lands), as well as students (18 views of the National Student-Doctoran Scientific Conference of the People and History, four views of the National Student-Doctoran Scientific Conference of the Women throughout history). Nor should we forget the role of popularization and strengthening historical knowledge. An important element of this action has been the 1998 periodical of the Piotrków Historical Books and the IHiSM scientific publication on the ministerial list, harmoniously combining the publications of researchers from Poland and abroad, the debuts of students in scientific assistance and within the framework of the social responsibility of science, helping to publish history enthusiasts without appropriate education (the latter initiative is particularly important at the present time when the availability of digital instruments allows the spread of unverified knowledge, often erroneous and perverting historical truth; publications in the periodical and publishing are not only properly reviewed, but also their authors are offered substantive care). There are also initiatives related to the social responsibility of science implemented jointly with governmental and local authorities such as: Piotrkowski University of the First Age, Marzipan Museum, Academic Night of Museums, Tribunal meetings with history, Historical Family Festival, Charity Court. Since December 2020, the museum has been able to visit the halls dedicated to the history of the Polish Legions by Józef Piłsudski and their relationships with Piotrków Trybunalski (financed by the support of the Marshal's Office in Łódź). This permanent exhibition is an extremely valuable addition to the educational offer aimed not only at students but also at secondary school students and primary school pupils. Knowledge of the richness and importance of the history of the region is simply unrecognizable as a contribution to patriotic education, and its transmission is an irreparable element of history-oriented education. It is also worth noting that not only academic teachers but also students of the direction are involved in the popularization of this knowledge. In 2018, at the request of the city authorities in connection with the 800th anniversary of Piotrków, lectures took the form of talks during walking through the streets of the city to return to the classic form of Grodzki meetings with history in the next year. Since 2020, however, these meetings have been organised online or stationary at the new museum headquarters. These initiatives are complemented by organisation and regular lectures (e.g. Ricky and its effects, Katyn's Crime - the Way to Truth, the Christmas of the Piotrkowians in the 19th century, the Saints and the Saints, and the Monasteries of Piotrków once again). The above events and projects, co-organized by the Association of Piotrków Academic Brotherhood im. Zygmunt and the Old enrich and strengthen the declining historical knowledge among the youngest. These shortcomings, which should be regretted, in turn, translate into a low level of civic and patriotic awareness. An important element of these initiatives is also the fact that they show how attractive it is to spend your free time, deepening your interests and passions. Pro-social actions are also effectively complemented by strict historical initiatives promoting knowledge not only about events from universal or national history, but also about such valuable and sometimes underestimated knowledge about the history of a small homeland. All these initiatives promoting knowledge, patriotic attitudes, pro-Citizen and pro-state actions will be destroyed along with the eradication of the direction and universities, and the resulting educational rift will not patch up any cyclical and temporary action. The direction of history, we remind you, has existed since 1997 and can therefore exploit its considerable potential and experience in working for the region and the country.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-29-sejm-38-1.u613	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 30 September 2021 at the latest 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 43]]
