ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u1	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 9, - Infrastructure - hour 9, - Culture and Media - hour 9, - Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 10, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Public Finance - hour. 10.30, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Health - h.m. 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development jointly with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 12, - Legal notice - hour. 12, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 13, - Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies together with the Committee on Public Finance - h.m. 13, - Public Finances together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 13.30, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 14, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism together with the Health Commission - h.m. 14, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 17, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u2	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Let's move on to asking questions. The first question will be asked by Andrzej Gawron, Mark Polak and Jarosław Gonciusz from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. It will address the government's efforts to develop the hydrogen economy. This question is addressed to the Minister of Climate and Environment. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment will answer Mr Ireneusz Oda. We begin, from what I can see, with Mr Mark Polak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u3	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ambitious assumptions of the European Green Deal This is a challenge for Poland because our economy is mainly based on traditional energy sources. It seems that the implementation of hydrogen technologies as a key element of green governance may be an opportunity for our country to achieve climate neutrality. Hydrogen can be easily transferred, stored, and harmless to the environment. In addition, it is suitable for driving motor vehicles, trains, ships as well as aircraft and can be burned in industrial furnaces for both solid fuel and gaseous fuel. That is why I wanted to ask whether the government sees in hydrogen technologies the opportunity to achieve climate neutrality and what action it is taking in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u4	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u5	Minister! I wanted to ask you if the Ministry is providing support for the production of hydrogen for the purpose of using it to reduce CO2 emissions. I'm asking for hydrogen so-called. green produced e.g. in electrosizers powered by excess energy from RES, as well as so-called. grey, which can be obtained from the remediation of mining areas in the form of methane or charred waste. Thus, we can limit uncontrolled emissions of CH4 and CO2 to the atmosphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u6	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. Come in warm and nice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u7	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki places great emphasis on the development of modern, advanced technologies, including those related to the hydrogen economy. Since the Ministry of Climate was established, i.e. Since November 2019, we have started work on both the Polish hydrogen strategy and a number of implementing documents for this strategy paper. The work, advanced consultations in expert groups lasted for many months, and then the whole legislative process related to the opinion of this document, the Polish hydrogen strategy took place. And so at the beginning of November this year. The Council of Ministers adopted a resolution on the Polish hydrogen strategy by 2030 with a view to 2040. It is a strategic document setting out the main objectives of the development of the hydrogen economy in Poland and actions to achieve them. The document is part of global and European efforts to build a low-carbon economy. The vision and overarching goal of the Polish hydrogen strategy is to create a new sector of the Polish economy, which will be part of the European and global economy. It is a hydrogen economy and its development to achieve climate neutrality and improve the competitiveness of the economy is extremely important. The Member asked for a reduction in emissions. It fits into this trend, but the key to thinking, is to create greater chances of competitiveness, even more: expansion, Polish economy in the course of work with groups of experts, with Polish research institutes such as the Institute of Energy, the Institute of Petroleum and Gas in Krakow, where there is the largest, most advanced hydrogen laboratory in Poland, one of the largest in Europe. We have developed a number of directional actions that are about to lead to improving the efficiency and competitiveness of the economy. And so the main objectives of the Polish hydrogen strategy are: the implementation of hydrogen technologies in energy and heating, the use of hydrogen as an alternative fuel in transport. The question was right to refer to different modes of transport, but mainly to heavy transport, freight transport, both wheeled and rail. Work is already underway, among others. Bydgoszcz PESA or Alstom Polska are working on prototypes of hydrogen drives for railway, for locomotives. They are already being tested, but we want to work with the best in Europe and in the world. Our main task is to raise local content, i.e. to maximise the participation of Polish entrepreneurs, Polish technological thought throughout the value chain. Therefore, even if the technologies currently being tested and used in this area are imported technologies, we are convinced that in a few years' time, those conditions created by the government, which also the Ministry of Climate and Environment is working on, will result in a large part - we assumed that after 2030 it would be more than 50% throughout the value chain - they will be Polish components. It is both the participation of Polish business, industry and science and technological thought, all institutions, including those from the business environment and, of course, supporting it in a sustainable way of government administration, which is obliged to provide a stable regulatory environment in this area, in cooperation with the Polish parliament. The next steps we take in this direction are extremely important, namely the world's first hydrogen sector deal. Sector deal, i.e. sectoral agreement of the whole industry, the whole sector, starting with large companies, so-called. Anchor around which we will build a value chain, which will provide how many entities will cooperate, cooperate with large entities such as Orlen, Orlen South, where the first hydrogen hub in Poland has already been opened - recently, last month, also with entities such as KGHM Polska Miedź SA or Grupa Azota, today the largest hydrogen producer in Europe. Well, High Izbo, Poland is today the third producer of hydrogen in the European Union and the fifth producer of hydrogen in the world. It's a commitment position. Of course, it is hydrogen produced in emission technologies, while in the coming years both all activities resulting from the Polish hydrogen strategy, as well as building a sectoral agreement involving representatives of the best Polish universities, research and development institutes, but also, as I said, mainly industry, business, smaller companies that will cooperate, organizations from the business environment and government administration... At present 156 entities have joined this agreement. The formula is still open, and in the near future we will be setting up a coordination board consisting of 21 people, representatives of the entire sector. All in order to intensify work on the construction of the Polish hydrogen economy (Dawn) and so that this process is not accidental, that it is properly managed, skillfully stimulated by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u8	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u9	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The European Union has recently presented its hydrogen strategy and Germany has adopted its national strategy. The Polish government has also taken similar action, but many barriers, mainly technological and innovative, still need to be overcome. I have a question. The topic of hydrogen appears in the programs of technical universities as well as universities. I would like to ask the Minister how the Ministry intends to fully involve key universities in this area in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u10	The additional question I think Mr Marek Polak wanted to ask, right? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u11	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, The implementation of an economy based on low-carbon hydrogen technology requires an appropriate industrial base for the production, transmission, storage and use of hydrogen as an energy carrier. Please tell us when we can achieve liquidity in which operators in different sectors of the economy will become an integral substitute [[♪ The bell ♪]] traditional energy sources with environmentally friendly hydrogen technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u12	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u13	Thank you very much. I would like to say that - by continuing, because I have already partially answered Mr Goncier's question - of course cooperation with the best Polish universities is already ongoing. I don't want to mention them so that one of the universities doesn't miss them, but there's definitely the Mining and Hutnicza Academy in the lead, there are the best Polish technical universities, technical universities, and institutes, among others. Polish Academy of Sciences, also resort institutes, among others. cooperating with the Ministry of Climate and Environment or subordinate, but also associated with the Ministry of State Assets. Everything is going in this direction to exploit the potential of the Polish economy. Referring to the question by Mr Polak and Mr Goncier, I would like to say that we are very active in the international arena. We are a participant in the European Clean Hydrogen Alliance. This is the equivalent of a sectoral agreement at the level of the European Union as a whole. As climate ministry, we're a member of this. There are several areas: business, government administration, research institutes and science. We are represented in the composition of the government administration, in which representatives of the Member States participate. We also meet at European Council level in the framework of negotiations. E.g. a very important meeting took place on 9 December 2020 at the so-called "newcomer'. Coreper. It was attended by ministers or ministers responsible for energy, climate and environment in their countries. The theme of this meeting is: Towards the hydrogen market for Europe. And there the Polish postulate was included, namely technological neutrality in the field of hydrogen production. Of course, the key will be the emissions of the production process. We also want to make use of the potential of natural gas, including coal, in the future also of nuclear energy today. We are currently talking about high-carbon processes, using new technologies such as CCS, CCU or even newer ones that are currently under investigation, in order to capture carbon dioxide, condense and use it for the production of synthetic fuels. We will get low-carbon hydrogen, which, in line with the conclusions adopted by the European Council, we can produce hydrogen, which will be our great opportunity for competitiveness, as I said at the outset. I will answer Mr Mark Polak's question in just one sentence, because time is running out. All this work is going too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to create safe conditions for energy transmission, distribution and storage. The Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels, which we will vote on tomorrow, is already in service. It now introduces a system of operating and safety rules for hydrogen filling stations. Today there is one private hydrogen filling station in Warsaw, but this process has already started and soon in the whole country according to the Polish hydrogen strategy 32 filling stations are to be created. We are at the beginning of the road, but the conditions in the strategy have been designed, and we are also preparing a great legislative package called -- maybe it's a big word -- a constitution for hydrogen. This will be done in scattered acts, in various legal acts, and will aim to build a good regulatory environment for the development of this sector of the economy. This is a great opportunity not only for Poland but also for the European Union as a whole to play a key role in this global competitiveness race. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, Minister, thank you Members. Members, including Iwona Maria Kozłowska and Iwona Hartwich, will ask a question on 1% tax transferred to the OPP after changes in the Polish Order. This question will be asked by the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance will answer by Minister Magdalena Rzeczkowska. I would like to ask Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska for a question. You're welcome. We did it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u15	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! The Polish Government assumes that the tax-free amount will be increased to 30 thousand. zł. Thus, people earning the lowest national and approx. 2/3 of pensioners will stop paying taxes. According to the calculations of the government gain, so pay lower taxes, has even 18 million Poles. Where one gains, the other loses. These changes will result in taxpayers earning income of up to 30,000 per year. - that's about $2.5,000. zł per month - do not transfer 1% income tax of the chosen public benefit organisation. Because in their case there will be no tax due, even if the tax return indicates a public benefit organisation, the actual amount to be transferred will be 0 PLN. My questions. Does the government plan to take these changes into account in any of its draft laws, regulations to safeguard the interests of the third sector? Does the government plan to change the activities of foundations and associations for which 1% The impact of tax on the account is an important source of performance of statutory tasks? What a wonderful new program the government will support people with disabilities whose chances of treatment and rehabilitation through 1% Will the tax decrease at the beginning of 2022 practically to zero? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u16	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u17	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for that question. Yes, indeed, tax changes implementing Polish Loads are adopted, have been announced in the Official Journal of the Laws, can be read, I encourage you to do so. I will remind you that according to the new tax regulations part of the Polish Government did not change the rules of transfer 1% tax, it can still be done. I will also remind you that, in accordance with the regulations in force, in particular due to the time of the COVID pandemic, more time has been given to taxpayers to settle 1%. This can be done on the basis of statements, corrections, PIT-OP statements made one month later in relation to income tax settlements made in pre-pandemic conditions. Automatic transfer of 1% has also been introduced in the absence of a declaration. This is the situation of pensioners and pensioners who are not required to testify. Transmission 1% is carried out through the tax authority's system on the basis of the data that were in the accounts in previous years. In this case, this amount is 1% the tax goes to the organisation previously indicated by the taxable person in the declaration. I would like to remind you that from the beginning of this institution, a total of more than PLN 8.5 billion has already been transferred to these institutions. In 2021 it was 972 700 000. zł, according to the data on 15 September this year. As part of the Polish Load, about 18 million Poles will actually benefit from this tax change. In view of the consequences, tax cuts for around 2/3 of taxpayers and the total lack of taxation for 1/3 of taxpayers - that is almost 9 million people - it must be noted that there may be a change in the structure of the financing of tax organisations. In this respect, we are the Ministry of Finance on an ongoing basis in contact with public benefit organisations that send their comments to the Ministry in connection with accepted tax changes. We also cooperate closely with the Council of Public Use Activities in KPRM, the Ministry of Finance is a member there. We are open as the Ministry of Finance to take into account the moment of this change - the effects of which, I remind you, will not be visible in 2022, only in 2023, after the settlement of PIT for... [[It's okay.]] Yes, of course, my fellow Member. ...in 2022 - starting from the first quarter of next year a dialogue with public benefit organisations so as to assess, in cooperation with the NAP, the real impact of these changes on the practice of public benefit organisations, the method of financing and together, also in the form of dialogue, the legislative proposals for the future, which could start to apply from the beginning of 2023, i.e. when this effect would occur. Their shape, we hope, will be the result of joint analyses, workshop work, so that at this stage, when we have not yet designed these solutions, it is difficult to talk about concreteities and indicate the nature and scope of these changes. As regards support for persons with disabilities, on the one hand, it is possible for each taxpayer to make a donation and for those who wish to deduct this tax donation, this possibility exists in the legislation, which has not been changed. In contrast, assistance to persons with disabilities is also provided for in the tax system in the form of relief for persons with disabilities. That's what I call it. rehabilitation allowance - it consists of deduction from the income of rehabilitation expenditure, expenditure relating to the facilitation of life activities which are incurred in a tax year by a taxable person who is a disabled person or a taxable person whose dependants are persons with disabilities. This expenditure catalogue is specified in the PIT Act. More than a million taxpayers each year benefit from this relief. It is worth recalling that the Polish Łada introduced changes in rehabilitation relief. Taxpayers will for the first time be entitled to deduct from income expenses incurred on diapers, diapers, anatomical diapers, absorbent panties, primers, anatomical contributions of an amount not exceeding PLN 2280 in the tax year, including for the purchase, repair and rental of medical devices. Currently, this allowance entitles you to deduct expenses incurred for the purchase and repair of individual equipment, equipment and technical tools necessary for rehabilitation and to facilitate the performance of life activities according to the needs arising from disability, except for household appliances. By means of the proposed deduction, the taxable person's expenses will also be incurred for the rental of such equipment, equipment, technical tools and expenditure on the purchase, repair or rental of equipment enabling the use of such items. As far as the caretaker's stay on the rehabilitation tournament is concerned, so far we have only been able to deduct the expenses of people with disabilities themselves incurred on the tournament. The new rules will make it possible to deduct expenses for the stay of the caretaker with a disabled person. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It will also be possible to deduct all expenses incurred for the carriage of a disabled person, not just those necessary for medical and rehabilitation treatments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u18	Thank you very much. In the second part, I'm sure the Minister will answer a few more questions. Mrs Iwona Hartwich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u19	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You could, my dear minister, speak specifically, because it's not 2180 zlotys, but these are the percentages deducted from that amount for a person with disabilities. It's not all the money, it's a lie. Ladies and gentlemen! Automatic redirection of funds from 1% really led to a 1% leap for people with disabilities. That's 1%. , these amounts fully have no persons with disabilities today. Hence my questions. What were the reasons why public benefit organisations ceased to receive information about the tax offices from which payments were made to those entities? Will the Ministry consider restoring access to data on tax offices from which payments were made to public benefit organisations? Is it possible for people with disabilities and their families (the bell) to get their money back from 1% of the money paid by companies into their subaccounts in a public benefit organisation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u20	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! The reasons why public benefit organisations do not receive information from the tax office are the centralisation of the bank account and the centralisation of tax settlements that took place in 2020. The taxpayer's micro-accounts have been introduced. Centralisation is a consequence of the transformation of the National Tax Administration, introducing more modern solutions. Information on the taxable person's data which transfers 1% a tax for a public benefit organisation shall be available if that taxable person agrees to its publication. The taxpayer does not consent in all cases. However, there is really no information about a specific tax office. I would like to inform you that, as part of the changes in the organisation and functioning of the National Tax Administration, we are introducing - this is related to the facilitation and re-bureaucratisation of the activities of the National Tax Administration - the location of tax activities. The taxpayer will not be associated with a specific tax office. We plan to implement such functionalities next year. The taxpayer will be able to make a declaration at any place in Poland, regardless of the place of residence or business activity. Hence, there is no way to return to a taxpayer's attachment to a specific tax office. On the other hand, in quotes, losses due to contributions to a public benefit organisation are most often linked to a situation where a taxable person does not pay the tax due in the prescribed time limit. The deposit is two months from when the statement should be filed. In fact, a number of cases where funds for the organisation of public benefit have not been transferred are those where the taxpayer simply did not pay the tax due. Much less was there a situation where no updates were made or information was given regarding the number of the public benefit organisation's account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u22	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Let's move on to the next question. Mrs Paulina Matysiak and Mrs Wiesław Szczepański will ask a question about the Act on Public Collective Transport on amending the entry into force of certain provisions. On behalf of the Minister of Infrastructure, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Infrastructure will be responsible for Mr Rafał Weber. I ask you, Mrs Paulina Matysiak, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u23	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Public Collective Transport Act adopted in 2010 regulates the organisation of public collective transport in Poland. The introduction of its most important provisions, which concern the rules on financing and licensing of services since 2016, is deferred. Originally, the regulations were to enter into force at the beginning of 2017. It is worth adding that work is supposed to be carried out on a thorough amendment of the law. The Ministry has started it several times. The results of this work are not present, but there was another delay in the implementation of the rules which were to enter into force on 17 November this year. A few quotes. Deputy Minister Rafał Weber at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on 11 December 2019 said: I think that half of 2020 is the time when the law of collective transport as a comprehensive amendment of this law, which also takes into account the changes we are talking about today, will be examined. The project didn't show up. On 29 October 2020, Minister Weber replied: I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Infrastructure has prepared an amendment to the Public Collective Transport Act. The infrastructure resort foresees that the project will be addressed to the Parliament in the coming months. It is known that the bill was included in the list of programming and legislative work of the Council of Ministers under the number UD18. The planned deadline for its adoption is Q3 2021. I would like to ask when the parliamentarians will be able to read this project. We haven't seen him all year. It's December 1st. What are you going to do with this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u24	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! All those who are interested in collective transport! I am very pleased that we can once again talk about this at the Sejm and the Sejm committees, because there is indeed something to talk about. I'll start by saying that the collective transport bill is not the only law that regulates this area. It was actually adopted in 2010 and has been operating in its main scope since then, but it did not provide real support to local authorities as regards the organisation of collective transport. It does not bring any tangible financial advantage, any possible financial support as regards the organisation of collective transport at the level of the commune, district or voivodship. The Government of Law and Justice has noticed this problem. Since mid- 2019 there has been a law which directly supports the organisation of collective transport, this road. I'm talking about the bill that set up the Bus Transport Development Fund. Under this law, first 1 PLN to the car km, and from March 2020 as much as 3 PLN to the car km is transferred to every organizer who wants to create a public utility line, who submitted an application to the regional office, to every local government, district government, voivodeship or association of these local authorities. And this is the real support that we have been providing since 2019. We abstained from legislation that would amend the law on collective transport, because, first, we have been dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic since March, and thus with much less mobility of the Polish society, with much less interest in collective transport. We had to focus at that time on making it even stronger, above all financially supporting the organisation of this transport, and we have done so. The fact that we increased the amount of the surcharge to the car from 1 PLN to 3 PLN is one thing. The second point is that we have created a refund mechanism for reduced tickets used in bus transport. This refund takes place in respect of 2019, i.e. the time when transport was not limited to anything, was not limited by pandemics or administrative decisions. During the pandemic, there have been restrictions on the number of passengers who can travel collectively, although this has not been the case since June this year. Although we will soon introduce limits in cultural institutions and in many other institutions, collective transport will not be covered by this restriction, because we know that it is used to reach school, to work and to move especially to those people who do not have such individual means of transport. In conclusion, I would like to say that in our view, but also in the opinion of the organisers, this most important law, which in a concrete and measurable way supports the organisation of collective transport, is the act on the bus transport fund. In 2022, support will continue to be available in the form of a maximum of PLN 3 per tonne-kilometre. We have managed to make legal changes that have already entered into force, and they are already in force. The Voivodeships can already announce calls for organizers, only... Exactly, we need even greater interest in local governments. And what I am calling for is to draw the attention of the local authorities that, under the Law of 2010 on collective transport, they are the organisers of collective transport, and that is their responsibility. We want to help them with this, we are giving them a specific financial offer: a surcharge of PLN 3 to the carzokm, we help to ensure that the discount refund is at the 2019 level, i.e. at a level higher than in 2020 and 2021, but it is their responsibility to organise this transport. We in Warsaw will not create bus lines somewhere in Poland and I think that none of us here will take it. For this there are local governments, because local governments know local needs from the municipal level to the voivodship level. It is the councilmen, the uncles, the mayors, the elders, the presidents who should carry out this duty. Why? Because - I am convinced - they would do it better than we would from Warsaw. They know their territory, they know their community, they know what migrations look like, how people move, and how to organize these public utility lines. So, once again, I stress: 3 zlotys of subsidies to cars kilometres under the Bus Fund Act in 2022 will be maintained. We encourage local governments to use this tool to create public utility lines. This year we've been dealing with the creation of over 4,000. [[♪ The bell ♪]] public utility lines all over Poland, exactly 4081 communication lines. We hope that this incremental trend will be maintained in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u26	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mr Wiesław Szczepański. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Some of the key provisions of this law were to enter into force on 1 January 2017. Since 2017, you have been extending their entry into force, and I will say briefly: what is in the budget law is de facto a prosthesis. For six minutes, you've been running away from the answers my friend asked you. That is why I wanted to ask once again: when the government will submit to Parliament a draft amendment to the law, so that these rules will enter into force. The point is not to repeat this every year, because in a moment, at the end of next year we will learn that you are again extending this country to 2023, 2024, 2025. Maybe you can abolish these rules and just keep it that way, but don't prolong it every year. So I have a question. If the draft law is on the government pages of the Sejm, we have been investigating it for several years, in the third quarter of 2021 the work was due to be completed, and today we have the fourth quarter, then when is the government going to submit this project to the Sejm? Or just say straight: there will be (the bell) no more amending this law, but we will change the date.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u28	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! The project on the government pages of the Sejm is missing and never was because there are no such government sites on the Sejm website. That's one thing. A good law is one that refers to reality that corresponds to reality. The reality of the collective transport organisation has changed very much for the better. In general, we have changed the trend from dismantling bus lines to creating a tool that allows you to create bus lines just as part of the Bus Development Fund. This fund has existed since September 2019, just over 2 years, of which more than half a year during the COVID-19 pandemic. I am convinced that if not for this fund, we would be dealing practically with the total exclusion of collective transport, especially with the total exclusion of those lines which are used for communication between rural centres, small villages, villages or even communal centres, and large cities where there are, for example, secondary schools and professional life. Please note that, in the near future, we will focus on the development of the government's bus development fund, because with more than 2 years of experience, we can see an authentic source of support for collective transport organisations. On the other hand, when it comes to PTZ, everyone is urged to change, but cannot say what specifically in this law to change in order to facilitate the organisation of collective transport. I have not heard the honourable Member's comments, with all due respect, nor the statements of the honourable Member, which should be found there so that collective transport can be organised in a better way. The antidote hasn't been found in 30 years. After all, we have dealt with the liquidation of PKS, the liquidation of railway lines and here you have contributed very much to this. It was during the rule of law and justice that a real tool was created to support the organisation of collective transport, and this real tool will certainly be developed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u30	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Mrs Lydia Burzyńska and Mr Waldemar Andzel will ask a question about the conditions for embezzling and feeding uniformed services guarding the Polish-Belarusian border. That question will be for the Minister of National Defence. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz will answer the State Secretary at the Ministry of National Defence. Here we go. The first question will be asked by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before I ask a question, I would like to thank you sincerely on my own behalf, but also on behalf of all Poles and Poles, all uniformed services who guard our border. I also direct these words to the families of these uniformed people, to their mothers, grandmothers, daughters, children, wives, because they are the ones who think every day with these bordermen and with these uniformed services. Ladies and gentlemen! Security at the Polish-Belarusian border and thus at the external border of the European Union is guarded by many uniform forces. The great determination of the services makes the attempts of illegal immigrants to cross the border ineffective. Their service is appreciated by the society that supports them, and the slogan "Murem" behind the Polish uniform is a clear proof of this. Appreciating the great work, effort and effort of all formations, including the Territorial Defence Forces, in terms of securing our border with Belarus, also understanding that the ground conditions are specific, please, my dear Minister, to provide us with information. What does it look like to supply the services, the army and the WOT with food or with the necessary articles? Does this work in an unlimited and fluid manner? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u32	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite the Minister. Good morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I thank you very much for this question and this initiative from your Members, because it will also be an opportunity to present information on the involvement of the Polish Army in support of the Border Guard and in the protection of Polish borders. Firstly, I would first like to provide some information on the functioning of the Border Guard. Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish Army has been involved in activities supporting the Border Guard since 6 July this year, once again I would like to repeat: since 6 July this year. It is not true that the involvement of the army took place only when two gentlemen from the Seym Hall marched to the Polish border. Ladies and gentlemen, this military involvement is being carried out in several respects. On the one hand, there are engineering forces that build a temporary firewall or build a temporary firewall from the beginning of July. She's being built, supplemented up to now. Engineering units built 195 km of a horizontal barrier, as well as 181 km of a vertical engineering barrier, that is, this fence, which is set at the border. In addition, since September 2, we have also built a protection for the game, protecting the game so that it does not undergo mutilation. So we're also building the so-called. The forest net on one side and on the other side of the temporary barrier has already been carried out 302 km. Ladies and gentlemen, this is one element. The second element is the direct support of the Border Guard by running posts and other activities. About 13 thousand are involved in this. soldiers who serve at the border every day. And without a doubt, this is quite a logistical challenge to ensure for these soldiers adequate approximation and appropriate accommodation. I'll remind you that soldiers operate there under ground conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to tell lies to other revelations that appear in Polish media, suffocated by the Lukashenka regime, that soldiers on the Polish border did not eat, starve, had no meals served for 3 days. Absolutely not true. Besides, the military side, and the Ministry of National Defence, clearly this Belarusian narrative was straightened out. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the soldiers themselves are concerned, they are fed according to food standards. Besides, these standards in this period, especially in the late autumn or autumn-winter period, have been further reinforced, screwed up, the daily diet of a soldier today at the border on calories is 5701 kcal, so it is really rich. Soldiers receive five meals each day: breakfast, second breakfast, lunch, dinner as well as a fifth meal in the form of a regenerative night meal. Most often it's hot soup, which is delivered to the places where there are police stations, where soldiers serve at these night posts. In addition, as I mentioned, these food rations have been strengthened so that soldiers can also receive additional meals, if necessary, with the possibility of preparing an additional warm meal in the so-called food formula. instant, ready meals, prepared soups, but also receive bars, energy gels, as well as isotonic cocktails. This is what soldiers receive in addition in their food rations. So this food is prepared really very well and with care for the soldiers. Of course, you must be aware that these meals are prepared in field conditions. It is not a big logistical challenge to prepare these meals by military economic troops, also by the logistics bases that took care of it. The Armed Forces Support Inspector is responsible for this type of activity, so here I would like to thank you very much for this surrounding which works for soldiers who serve on the Polish border. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u34	Thank you very much. Before giving the floor to Mr Waldemar Andzel, I wanted to inform Mr Kierwinski, Mr Ionski and Mr Szczerba, because I know that they were to ask a question, and Mr Trepka, Mr Chrzan and Mr Drabek, some of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition, others from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, that there is no and will not be a representative of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism on your questions. My offer may be that, and you gentlemen will consider it or not. I will not take this off the agenda, you can ask a question at the time you are entitled to it, and the Ministry will either refer to it or will not address it. As Vice-Marshal of the Sejm right now, I can't... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay, we're gonna have time to make a statement, 'cause we have to... [[Mr. Marshal, just one comment. The question was addressed to Prime Minister Morawiecki, not to the Minister of Sport, so maybe on behalf of the Prime Minister someone else could...]] No, no, Marcin. I have a heartfelt request. Nobody's gonna trade one resort for another resort. [[So maybe we should ask a question.]] Don't ask the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm to do the impossible. I suggest this: if you decide to ask a question, please, if you resign, you will ask it at a different time. [[We'll ask a question.]] I agree to both, and to the other solution. We're back to square one. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You, Minister, let me handle this. We can handle ourselves as marshals. You manage as rulers, and we will manage in the Seym. Mr Andzel, I am speaking to Mr Andzel, and I am sorry for the interruption. You're welcome to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I also wanted to begin by thanking our soldiers, the WOT soldiers and the officers, the border guards for this heavy, exhausting service to ensure the security of our country, our borders. As to the questions, I would like to ask what conditions are the consummated soldiers located in the border area, whether the necessary articles are supplied in an unlimited and liquid manner. I also wanted to ask if the soldiers also have psychological care provided, if this is needed, because the service is really very hard and exhausting, and these soldiers, as you mentioned, are over 13,000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u36	Thank you very much, sir. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The soldiers serving at the border, of course, are accommodated in the field, but in doing so, sir, I will inform you that this accommodation is in the tents. These tents are heated. In these tents there are 7330 soldiers, and some in residential containers, because I would like to point out that at the moment, due to the fact that there is autumn-winter time, we move from tents heated to containers and some are already equipped with containers, in a moment there will be more containers, about 2 thousand. containers, gradually, according to the schedule they reach the Polish-Belarusian border. That's where the soldiers will be accommodated. So right now, as far as housing in residential containers is concerned, there are 2980 soldiers staying in them. In addition, soldiers are also accommodated in fixed buildings under relevant agreements, which are signed inter alia. with local governments, mainly local governments, but also with individuals, owners of various guesthouses and other facilities. As far as this type of accommodation is concerned, 4784 soldiers are stationed in buildings in Lublin Voivodeship, i.e. in RZI Lublin, 3384, as far as Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship is concerned, because there are soldiers there, and 1,400 soldiers are accommodated in Podlasie Voivodeship. As I mentioned, at the moment we deliver containers to the border according to the schedule, we cooperate very closely with the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency, which also transfers containers from its resources. And there will be these tasks based on containers. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army, they are also accommodated in fixed facilities in the municipality of Szudziałowo, also in a school in Sokółka, but also in several other smaller places. As regards the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Forces, they carry out the tasks under the "Strong Support' programme. This is another diversion of military operations at the border. Let me remind you that the first line is soldiers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ops. Regarding psychological support - Mr. Marshal, literally one sentence - of course psychological support for soldiers who serve on the Polish-Belarusian border is implemented by the mother units with the support of central institutions. It was prepared in accordance with the concept of psychological support for the Armed Forces, for Polish soldiers in those troops which are at the border. I'm talking about those formations that take care of the tasks. These are divisions 18, 16, 11 and 12. It is also realized by its own forces. If necessary, psychological central support shall also be implemented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u38	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to question five. Members, Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Mr Dariusz Joński, Mr Michał Szczerba, would like to ask a question about the activities carried out before the appropriate services in respect of which the legislation of the Minister of State in the Ministry of Sport and Tourism is likely to violate the provisions of the Act of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism concerning the activities carried out by Vinci NeoClinic, which consisted in offering severe or incurable treatment by means of unconfirmed effectiveness. This question was asked to the President of the Council of Ministers. This question was to be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, Minister Anna Krupka, but since the Minister does not have an answer, there will be no answer at the moment. I invite Mr Marcin Kierwiński to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very characteristic that no one from the PiS wishes to speak on this scandalous nomination for Minister of Sport for Mr Meiza. None of the PiS members in this office want to defend Mr. Masa. I don't want to say a good word about this man. 'Cause it's just undefensible. The history of the PiS government is the history of many scandalous nominations, many scandals, incomprehensible promotions, but I don't think the moral collapse of the PiS government has ever been as clear as this promotion. There is no one representing the Prime Minister, so I will address those sitting in the Chamber of Members of the PiS. Think about who you're creating a coalition with. Think about who's helping you keep the authorities alive. Think about who today is the symbol of this office. And the real cowardice of Mr. Morawiecki, Mr. Kaczyński's cowardice will not change the fact that you take responsibility for this nomination. You take responsibility for this man. [[Applause]] Mr. Masha said there was a PiS office on it a few weeks ago. This is a faithful quote. So Mr. Masa is in fact a screen, a screen for the bad business that this government is doing. For all the scams, for all the strange, unexplained scandals. Mr. Masa guarantees impunity, impunity of this office. Mr Masa guarantees that many ministers of this government are not responsible for anything. That's why he's inviolable, but you already know you can't defend him. Mr. Masa is a match for the PiS, a match for all of you. He's like this. Same as all of you. It's the same. You need Masa as oxygen and Masa as oxygen. You will defend Masa (the bell) and what he did before and he will defend you. You and your office. [[Who are you talking to?]] Because the truth is, there are more like this in Moravian government and Kaczyński's government. There's a mess from the ventilators, there's a mess from the power plant, there's a mess from the TVP, there's a mess from Orlen and there's a mess from hiding property claims. Because Masa's just in this office's DNA. And now to the point, ladies and gentlemen, because we have asked this question not by accident to Prime Minister Morawiecki. We wanted to find out how Mr. Masa was checked when he became Vice Minister? It is a natural thing that each of the vice ministers is subject to the so-called. Centrifuges. He's being checked by the Secret Service, his contacts, his business are being checked. It's hard to believe Mr. Masha wasn't checked. But it's also hard to believe that Mr. Masza was so inept that what didn't do to the special forces ruled by the PiS, what Mr. Kaminski, Mr. Wąsik, didn't do, was done by independent journalists. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are eating time for your colleagues. I'm almost done, Marshal. Very simple question: How long will your special forces exceed all limits when it comes to inability, lack of professionalism and covering for ordinary scandalists? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński. You're welcome. [[Mr Szczerba will be...]] And you resign, sir? [[I'll be second because we switched.]] Please, Mr Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u41	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today is the day of shame. Several dozen ministers, over 100 vice ministers, and no one in this room wants to represent Luke Meiza. Why? [[The statements are here, Mr. Marshal.]] Because his company offered terminally ill people: children, elderly people untested methods. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the special services of our country, the state services are investigating the Deputy Minister who has been appointed. It's just an uncontrollable thing. We are dealing with a disgrace of the state. First, the Deputy Minister of Sport responsible for grants, computerization, new technologies in sport, tenders, millions of dollars, and then it works. Yesterday, the services entered one of the agencies, the Regional Development Agency in Zielona Góra. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're checking the Mass. But when? When he's the vice minister. It does not provide information, does not report on the activities of its companies. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a scandal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u42	Sir, I have a problem. You know what it is. Ten seconds? [[Voice from the room: We can do this.]] Just really, try. I don't mean to offend anyone, but I'm asking for discipline.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're being watched by these parents of terminally ill children. One of the boys can't see, he can't hear, he's not eating, he's lying. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A year ago, these hyenas called them and said they were gonna save this life. For example, out of respect, we demand and expect the Prime Minister's information on this matter. It's a great shame. I would like to ask if Mr. Prime Minister, as the father of three children, is not ashamed that he called a man to his government who wanted to prey on the misfortune of these children along with others. How embarrassing are you? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u44	Thank you very much. Let's move on to question six. Barbara Bartus and Kazimierz Gołojuch will ask a question about support for Eastern Poland for the period 2021 to 2027. This question will be asked to the Minister of Funds and Regional Policy and will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy by Minister Małgorzata Jarosińska-Jedynak. I would ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u45	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Eastern Poland is a very diverse geographical, natural and cultural area - from big lakes in the north to Bieszczady in the south, and I would also say: to Beskid Gorlicki - but the different voivodships that are part of the macro-region definitely combine one thing: still very big development needs. Although since Poland joined the European Union and launched its first support programme for Eastern Poland in the years 2007 and 2013, it has been possible to do a lot, Eastern Poland still has quite a long distance to do so compared to other parts of the country. Recent years have shown the importance and effectiveness of cohesion policy instruments implemented in Eastern Poland. Research carried out in 2020 by the Minister of Funds and regional policy on the impact of cohesion policy on the social and economic situation of Poland and its regions indicates that during the period 2004 to 2018 the impact of cohesion policy on convergence was the strongest in the regions of Eastern Poland. In the case of Polish regions with a higher level of development, the impact of cohesion policy on the convergence achieved was on average about 0.1. This shows how important cohesion policy plays a role in improving the development of regions with lower levels of development, including an additional instrument dedicated to this part of the country to finance key investments of trans-regional importance. Dear Minister, Is the government still [[♪ The bell ♪]] intends to further support the macro-region of Eastern Poland? Will there be a separate programme for Eastern Poland for the period 2021 to 2027? Minister, a question for you. You were in Regietów, you know Beskid Gorlicki, you know these needs. They are very similar to the needs of the Carpathian. Will the district of Gorlicki also be able to be included in the recipients of additional funds in this programme? Let me get this straight: this is about money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u46	Thank you very much, Member. I wanted to say that I gave an additional half-minute to the previous point, and I gave it to the Member too. [[Mr. Marshal, there was a statement and an extra four minutes. And thank you very much for half a minute for me. Thank you very much, because this is an important question for the whole region. Thank you.]] If you'd extended your statement, I wouldn't have interrupted you. So please remember that the marshals are trying to be objective. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u47	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much, Commissioner, for this question. In the first words, of course, I confirm, so that support for Eastern Poland will be implemented in the form of a separate programme dedicated to this macro-region. It will continue because this will be the third perspective in which the regions of Eastern Poland will be able to benefit from such support. The development of such a dedicated public intervention instrument for Eastern Poland is primarily an expression of the consistent approach of the government to support the least developed part of the country and is the implementation of sustainable territorial development, which has been written down and indicated in the Responsible Development Strategy, but also in the National Regional Development Strategy, which identifies the Eastern Poland macro-region as the least developed region, which requires strategic intervention. The macro-region, as you have already mentioned, is, above all, very diverse, but also characterised by low transport accessibility both internally and externally, low availability of public services. The decapitalisation of public and strategic infrastructure as well as a low level of entrepreneurship and innovation is also observed. This, in turn, worsens investment conditions, affects the productivity of local economies, also has a significant impact on the reduction in the quality of life of residents and on the significant outflow of residents, especially young people, entrepreneurs, educated, who are looking for a better life in other regions, not necessarily in the macro-region of Eastern Poland. Recent years have shown the effectiveness of investments in funds and recapitalisation of various areas under the Eastern Poland programme, which also translates into indicators, because the indicators of the level of socio-economic development were the strongest in Eastern Poland regions: from 25% of the overpaid distance to the EU average in the Lublin Voivodeship to 42% in the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. I think that these are huge development potentials that need to be further exploited, because despite these good indicators, good achievements we still see a large distance between regions of Eastern Poland and other regions. The previous two editions of the programme concerning Eastern Poland in 2007 and 2013 and 2014-2020 benefited five voivodships: Lubelskie, Podkarpackie, Podlaskie, Świętokrzyskie and Warmia-Mazurskie. Due to a similar level of development, but also identified development barriers in the years 2021 to 2027, the programme will also cover part of the Mazowieckie voivodship, the part which was separated as a statistical region of Mazowiecki, regional, without Warsaw and nine surrounding powiats. If we are talking about the Gorlicki district, this district is located in the Małopolska Voivodeship. The Małopolskie Voivodship is not covered by the Eastern Poland programme, but it will be possible to implement joint projects that will enable the implementation of investments in two voivodships. So there is a question of the implementation of partnership projects in agreement with the marshal or local authorities from the Eastern Poland region. Is that all in this part? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Małgorzata Jarosińska-Jedynik: Yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u48	Is there an additional question?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u49	But of course, Mr. Marshal... You're welcome, you're welcome. ...the more that I heard from the Minister that part of the Mazowieckie was included, and when it comes to the part of Małopolska, those words did not come out. The only chance is in partnership with Podkarpacie. On the other hand, Minister, is there any way to negotiate? I know time's up, but is there still a possibility? I live in Lipinki. This municipality belonged to Podkarpacie until 1998. So is the Blade and the Reichs mentioned. This is why it was the first time that the conference was organized, because it turned out that this is the municipality with the weakest communication availability. In my opinion and in the opinion of the residents who feel these changes from the 1990s, there has been a collapse of industry and for years the Platform and PSL governments nothing in our district (The Bell) has happened. Question: "Is there still a possibility and what would these partnerships possibly be?" I understand that when it comes to us, it's about the Carpathian.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u50	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u51	Thank you very much. I must say why it was possible to include part of the Mazowieckie voivodship, the less developed part, i.e. the region which was statistically separated from the Mazowieckie regional voivodship. So he was characterized by a low level of development, which is why he managed to turn it on. As far as the Małopolskie voivodship is concerned, the voivodship is one static region and there are no separate parts which are less developed. The Małopolskie Voivodship is characterised by a high level of development, so in this case we cannot talk about the Małopolska Voivodship as this voivodship, which is less developed compared to the regions of Eastern Poland. Today, changes to the programme, which is very advanced, because this programme is already prepared, has already undergone a public consultation, a public consultation, was handed over today to the Permanent Committee for European Affairs, will be forwarded to the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers and later to the Council of Ministers... So this is the moment when such changes cannot occur in the program. We are also following technical discussions with the European Commission and before formal discussions. The programme has already in principle been discussed with representatives of the European Commission, so at this point these changes are impossible. However, all the time, as I mentioned, there is the possibility of implementing partner projects, within which also the funds of Eastern Poland will be able to affect these less developed parts of the Lesser Poland voivodship. Of course, here is the matter of agreement with individual marshals, i.e. the question of Podkarpackie voivodship, the marshal of Podkarpackie voivodship. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, Member. [[Voice from the hall: Thank you very much, Marshal.]] Please, my fellow Member. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mariusz Trepka and Mr Tadeusz Chrzan of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask the question of Ms Annie Krupce, who is consistently absent from the government programme of the Club, who supports small and medium-sized sports clubs. I ask Mr Mariusz Trepka to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u53	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Despite the Minister's absence - but I think we will receive the answers in writing - I would like to ask our question, together with Mr Chrzan. The aim of the government's club programme is to support small and medium-sized sports clubs, where sport talents are often manifested. The project was extremely interested, as support had never gone directly to clubs before. On behalf of the clubs from the Częstochowa district and the mouse district from which I come, and the Jarosław district from which Mr Chrzan comes, we warmly thank you for such support for small clubs. Minister! We therefore have this question: What are the objectives of the funds that are transferred to small clubs? How many clubs signed up for the show? How much was the total amount of the grant? Is the Ministry planning another edition of the programme, which is particularly important during the pandemic, during which many students ceased their physical activity? I hope that this programme will continue for the benefit of small talents in small clubs where these talents are, and often because of the lack of financial opportunities, they simply cease their physical activity. So that together with Mr Chrzan, we are very happy that this program is and is functioning. We hope that it will continue to function. So, Mr. Marshal, we think we'll get an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u54	We hope so, sir. Mr Tadeusz Chrzan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to follow my colleague so that this programme will continue and possibly actually respond in writing so that we can know what to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u56	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Mrs Monika Wielichowska and Mr Marek Hok from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will ask a question about the government campaign #We are very excited. This question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Mr Waldemar Kraska will answer the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When vaccinations started and Poles, often standing in queues, were eager to vaccinate themselves when it seemed that the vaccination program would be a big success, the national vaccination agent Michał Dworczyk and the health minister Adam Niedzielski quite often, sometimes every day, willingly organized press conferences. Things have changed. First, when the vaccinations slowed down, the conferences were getting rarer, and when the vaccinations stopped, the vaccine attorney, Mr. Michał Dworczyk, sort of disappeared into thin air. Also Minister Niedzielski avoids the media, although it is good, because his last conference on the fight of the government against COVID was a mockery and only ridiculed the government and the minister himself. A minister who had already capitulated and left Poles alone with a pandemic. Today it is limited to providing more and more tragic data on new infections, occupied beds, ventilators and unfortunately deaths. He is a minister of statistics who has never presented a strategy to combat a pandemic, a strategy that should be simple, clear and, above all, communicated to the public. There's no vaccination strategy either. We are without a thoughtful and accurate information campaign about vaccination, but above all educational. It's a failure of the PiS government. Unfortunately, we pay for it all with health, health and life. Action #We crave is incompetent. The promotional measures did not have the expected effect. Currently, Poland is one of the worst falling countries of the European Union in terms of the percentage of population transplantation and is 23th among the 27 members of the Community. Statistics on the number of diseases and deaths caused by COVID-19 are also tragic. There is no doubt that the above information is related to the inefficient #Happiness campaign. Minister! A few questions. What was the total cost of the information campaign entitled #We are interested in the period from the date of its creation to today? Why don't you tell us which TV stations cost the most. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in which radio stations or marketing organisations? But first of all, I want to ask about a rather fresh case, about the silent competition of Minister Dworczyk. Growing resilience with the budget of PLN 540 million. In this competition prizes were awarded. After 1 million they even received the least vaccination on the country scale in Podkarpacie. I wanted to ask the Minister who was consulted on the rules of this competition. They certainly were not consulted with local governments, although the prize pool was four times higher than in the previous two competitions. When was this contest officially announced? Who set out his rules? And why were the cities excluded from the county rights? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u58	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We all know that a vaccine against COVID-19 gives us the chance to immunize our society, to immunize the infection, but also to hope for a return to normal, which I think we all miss so much. Therefore, from the moment the vaccines appeared in Poland, or actually even earlier, we started information campaigns and took many initiatives to popularize our citizens' willingness to vaccinate. I will divide these two actions into KPRM activities and activities of the Ministry of Health. Firstly, the 360-degree campaign was aimed at people who were not vaccinated through traditional media such as newspapers, radio and television, but also digital channels, i.e. social networks and social media. Educational materials, and consequently promotional materials, have been published in 200 press titles, a total of over 400 publications. Since January, more than 145 radio and television stations have been constantly broadcasting information spots. Since the beginning of the year, there have been over 10.5 thousand. the issue of spots in television stations and almost 20 million views in video services. As far as technology and digital marketing are concerned, advertising materials were targeted, tailored to specific customer groups, promoted mainly on websites. Within this dimension of the campaign more than 200 million images of graphic material and 175 million views of video materials were generated. The competitive advantages of large platforms were also used, with nearly 214 million views of targeted promotional materials. In parallel, the largest news portals in Poland, which reached more than 10 million users, were launched. Another action is the action of the last simple one, in which more than 30 influencers, i.e. leaders of the public opinion, took part in the promotion of vaccination measures. The number of views in this action is over 11 million, of which 800,000. is a unique reaction to the appearance of these messages. We're up-to-date fighting disinformation and fake news. Already at the beginning of the action of the national vaccination programme, an intervention team was established, which in real time responds to the anti-vaccine content placed on the network and on social media. So far it has taken over 21 thousand. disinformation threads. We also promoted vaccinations in the form of different actions in every corner of Poland in cooperation with subordinate institutions. E.g. As part of the action, we organized one-off vaccinations in 16 places in May. As part of these activities, doctors and other doctors were also consulted as well as volunteers. As far as the last simple action is concerned, we have involved famous actors and athletes in promoting vaccination. They were representatives of football, volleyball, extreme sports, motor sports, as well as football clubs or athletic teams. All the activities were preceded by deep research into what social group we can reach. The Ministry of Health carried out a promotional campaign at the same time on the gov.pl portal. Up-to-date information on the products, the benefits of these vaccines and the designated vaccination centres could be found there. The graphics of the Ministry of Health were shown in many social media. The management was also active in the campaign to promote vaccination. As far as the fight against misinformation is concerned, we have recorded several educational videos with experts. We have been very active in cooperating with the Polish Society of Family Medicine in the implementation of posters and graphics. In cooperation with the National Health Fund, we distributed many posters and leaflets. Together with the Polish Post Office, we published and put into circulation a stamp that promoted the action. In recent weeks, we have launched an information campaign. On October 26, we announced that since November 2, we are launching a system of referrals for the third dose. On October 28, we promoted an additional and booster dose. On November 13, we extended the validity of the certificates after the third dose of vaccination. Since November 25, 50+ subjects were able to receive a booster dose. On 19 November, we sent 15.5 million text messages to people who were fully vaccinated with information about the possibility of taking a booster dose. We have reduced this period to 5 months for people over 50 years of age who can take a booster dose (the bell). Right now, we're preparing for the A+ vaccination program. She spoke about the competitions for municipalities that were actually organised. These are competitions of Rising Resistance, the Most Resistant Municipality and the Consulate Contest for Medal. At the moment, we are discussing with local governments the continuation of these programmes. As far as information on the costs of the promotional campaign is concerned, I will present...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u60	You'll be the one to inform, Minister, if I may ask, in the second part, because you'll have the floor again in a moment. Please, Mr Mark Hok will ask a supplementary question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, you have not answered any questions after Mrs Wielichowska, but you have prepared a beautiful reply in writing. Minister! You promised on Friday - we had a meeting together - that the bill on the compensation fund, which was supposed to encourage potential people to immunize, would be prepared for Monday. It's Wednesday. It's not today. This law - I wanted to remind you - was a law already prepared by the Minister of Health in April and was intended to compensate those who were afraid of unforeseen vaccination symptoms, in the form of financial payments. That's not what happened. This bill was sent to the Polish Sejm on August 2. The printing was made, No. 1449, and to this day we do not have this printing in the committee's work. The Minister promised, Minister, that he would be here on Monday. It's Wednesday, it's not here. Therefore, I have a question: When will this law, which is already a few months late, because today it will not encourage these potential people to vaccination, be conducted in the Polish Parliament, in the Polish Health Commission? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like a written reply for the Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u62	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will reply in writing to you and to you very briefly: 8 December will be the first reading of the Sejm. [[When?]] 8 December will be the first reading. [[Minister, it can be done by regulation, even the bill doesn't need...]] The compensation fund by law we have to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's the law...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u64	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Jan Łopata and Mieczysław Kasprzak from the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will ask a question about the poor state of pediatric care in Poland. That question will be for Minister Waldemar Kraski. Please, Mr Jan Slopata.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u65	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! In this seymous form of questioning in current matters, which is a very short formula, today we want to raise a problem that is extremely important and extremely up-to-date, namely children's pediatrics. Dear Minister, If you had looked at the press releases on this subject, you would have noticed that the basic word is collapse. Unfortunately, the word "failure" breaks through every pediatric title. And it's not just child psychiatry we've been talking about recently, it's the whole hospital security system, child health insurance. It can be said that this also applies to the whole country, and the Coronavirus epidemic has only accelerated and exposed this phenomenon. Minister! According to the President of the District Medical Chamber in Warsaw - I have been referring to this data - since June this year, or for less than six months, about 90 paediatric hospitals have been closed or suspended. It's hard to say otherwise than collapse. In the Lublin Voivodeship, from which I come, it is very similar. At the meeting of the Lublin Parliamentary Group we received information about the state of affairs and a similar statement is pressed: collapse. The entire Zamojszczyzna and the eastern part of the Lublin Voivodeship do not have a paediatric hospital branch. The problem that has been and is highlighted is the staff, it's actually the lack of pediatricians and in connection with the closure of branches there is no possibility of their education. The second, perhaps the main problem, is the financing and evaluation of medical services in pediatrics. A whole series of questions are born. If I don't have time, I'll only bet a few. Namely, please refer to the problem of too low valuation of benefits, which doctors raise, and above all hospital directors, where these branches existed until recently. Please specify the number of places (Bingle) for paediatric specialisation in Poland. How many pediatric wards have been locked up in the last 10 years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u66	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Very briefly, but very specifically, I will answer the questions of the Member. First of all, how many pediatric wards have been locked up? You just quoted a rather strange number here. From our data as of 2 November this year, 17 paediatric branches in the country have stopped - I stress - the implementation of health care services. In the question you addressed to us, two pediatric units were mentioned: in Międzyrzec Podlaski and in Włodawa. In Międzyrzec Podlaski, this branch is already operational, in Włodawa this branch was restarted on 15 November this year. You asked me how long it took to get a seat in the pediatric ward. As with any department, parties are held either through the E.R. or through a hospital emergency unit. We do not have such data as we wait here for the reception, but from our information it appears that at the moment in Poland they are implementing a pediatric contract, i.e. these are pediatric branches, 352 branches. In hospitalization it is: almost 300 branches receive in the so-called. the plan and 335 adopt the so-called plan. urgent patients. According to our information, there are currently no longer periods for patients to be treated as an emergency. There may be some expectations if we are talking about the so-called. Specialized branches, but these children are also admitted there on an ongoing basis. Is there a shortage of pediatrician doctors? As in all specializations in the Polish health service, we see that these doctors are not enough. We also see that the average age of pediatric doctors is quite high, and we certainly agree with that too. But we see that more and more young people choose this specialty. During the COVID pandemic, we cope with the fact that we have suspended standards regarding the number of specialists or the operation. nursing in the departments concerned, of course, provided that the manager of the entity ensures continuity of the medical process and the health safety of the recipients. We see those pediatrician doctors coming and coming. So that when it comes to the issue that you raised, we have abolished the limits for the paediatric wards. At the moment, all benefits that are provided by the paediatric ward are paid by the National Health Fund. Also at the moment, a medical technology assessment agency is implementing a change in tariff preferences of procedures carried out in paediatric wards. I think this will definitely improve the funding of these branches. We all know that pediatrics are quite specific specializations. Children are mostly seasonal; they are autumn periods; they are spring periods. In addition to these periods, children are usually absent from these wards. Of course, we're talking about such typical county pediatric wards. Where there are high-specialist units, where there is high diagnostics, of course children are still a lot. That is why we are also thinking about introducing some solutions to help paediatric wards in small county hospitals, where children sometimes with banal diseases, e.g. with an infection of the airways, with pneumonia, should be treated, they should go there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u68	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! Minister! We have a dramatic situation in health care - everyone says so - not only in pediatrics, but we should particularly care about ensuring health safety for young patients. You say very nicely here: we try, we strive. It's just that if someone wasn't in the hospital alone with a patient, maybe they didn't visit their family there, they might not know it, but this drama is going on. Meanwhile, Eurostat reported a few days ago - and this is very interesting for me - that Poland has the lowest rate of funding for health care: 4,8% GDP, while Germany has 11.2%, France - 10% , Hungary, our friend - 5.7% So that's significant. For a long time we have heard how this government increases funding for health services (the Bell), while reality can be different. I think Eurostat has reliable data. Explain where there is a reduction in funding for health care during the pandemic period, when these needs are much greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u70	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! We've been a little out of line with the basic question, so I think I'll answer that in writing. We're analyzing this data, and unfortunately, there's been a breach somewhere. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u72	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Ms Anna April from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question on the preparation of the State Medical Rescue for the fight against the fourth wave of the pandemic of Coronavirus and plans for the development of the PRM system. This question will be asked to Minister Waldemar Kraska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u73	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! The system of State Medical Rescue, in short: PRM, was created to provide assistance to any person in a state of sudden danger to health or life. The National Medical Rescue System operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, all year round. Units of the National Medical Rescue System are hospital emergency units, medical rescue teams, including flight medical rescue teams, which have concluded agreements with the National Health Fund. In the system of State Medical Rescue, trauma centers and hospital units specialized in the treatment of emergency health and life-threatening conditions work together. Since the outbreak, State Medical Rescue must carry out its tasks under exceptional conditions related to the need to comply with the health regime in order to ensure the safety of both patients and personnel. The rescue system is exposed to a great test and is facing a great deal of challenges in the fight against the epidemic, so I would like to ask the Minister: How is medical rescue prepared to fight the fourth wave of the pandemic of Coronavirus? And the second question in this question is: What changes have occurred recently with regard to medical rescue? And what plans does the Ministry of Health have for this important medical area in the near future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u74	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, medical rescue from the beginning, the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic is on the front line. Once again, I thank all the employees of the State Medical Rescue: doctors, nurses, rescuers, because it really rested their shoulders and they are still fighting on this first line against the invasion of COVID-19. During each wave, certain measures have been taken to ensure that State Medical Rescue meets new challenges. Therefore, a number of actions that have already worked out during previous waves are also being applied at the moment. I'm talking about the simplest actions, for example. to alleviate certain requirements, for example, for the heads of ambulance teams P, for medical emergency teams that ride with a doctor. If this doctor is absorbed and works e.g. In the SOR, this team can drive without a doctor, of course with an extra lifeguard. Also for medical dispatchers, certain requirements have been relaxed, but, of course, we still make sure that the quality of the benefits is at the right level. We have also extended the medical emergency clearances so that they can download material from the upper respiratory tract, which is the test material for Coronavirus. At the moment, every patient who is taken by a medical emergency team has a swab taken, has a coronavirus test. As was the case during previous waves, voivodeships can also contract additional medical rescue teams, so that in places where there is an increased number of new calls, where there are more of these calls, there are definitely more ambulances. During the previous waves, more than 160 ambulances were still contracted. For this we have allocated over PLN 42 million. We've also put in place a lot of IT systems so the medical dispatcher knows where the coronavirus patient is going to go to avoid queues under hospital emergency services sometimes. Of course, this is not always avoidable, but at the moment we have a database of free beds and according to this dispatcher directs a given ambulance with a patient. We also increased the funding of medical rescue teams. Only for the last quarter of this year have we allocated an additional 129 million PLN. This is an increased funding because the medical technology assessment agency has increased the daily rescue team's lump sum. We also introduced a 30% supplement, so-called. away, for workers who are active in medical rescue at the moment. This was also the result of an agreement between the Minister of Health and the Protest Committee of Medical Rescuers and the Association of Medical Rescue Employers. From 1 October the valuation of the so-called. extracartes, i.e. a daily lump sum, S syndrome, or a team with a doctor, that is 6121 zł, and P team - 4590 zł. For next year, the total expenditure on medical rescue teams will be PLN 2847 million, i.e. 20% more than in the current year. If we compare this historically, 2007 to 2022, this is an increase in medical rescue funding by 266%, which is a very large leap. The exit allowance, which is paid to administrators and handed over to emergency workers, has also already been legalized and is now paid to all emergency workers or to the entire team that participates in the action. We have also made many investments in medical rescue. In 2019 we allocated 80 million from the state budget for the purchase of 200 ambulances. This programme continued in the following years and in 2020 we allocated 58 million. That's what another 97 ambulances were purchased from. In 2021, i.e. present, we allocated 58 million and bought 112 ambulances, plus 12 ambulances for the Silesian province from a separate program. In total, we have allocated over PLN 210 million to exchange ambulances. We also allocated PLN 1600 million from the EU's infrastructure and environment programme in 2014 and 202021. During the pandemic, medical rescue teams received a COVID supplement, as did other workers who were directly involved in the fight against COVID. In addition, since August, a team has been operating in the Ministry of Health - its work is also attended by representatives of the medical rescue community - working on amending the Act on State Medical Rescue. We want the Law (The Bell), which was adopted in 2006, to be remodeled at the moment, because in many respects it no longer meets the real needs. Finally, work on the Law on the Occupation and Local Government of Medical Rescuers is being completed, and soon it will come into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u76	Thank you very much. I would like an additional question from Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u77	Mr. Marshal, I would like to drop the additional question because the Minister has already answered the second question in the last two sentences in particular. So that I am fully satisfied and thank you very much to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u78	Thank you very much, Member. Let's move on to the last question, the 11th. Barbara Dziuk and Monika Pawłowska will ask a question about the assumptions of the rehabilitation programme after the COVID-19 disease in hospital departments and spa facilities for patients up to 18 years old. Minister Waldemar Kraska will answer. I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to ask her first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! COVID-19 attacks more and more people, including young people. Currently, legal solutions are recommended by WHO or the European Medicines Agency. They allow vaccination against the coronavirus of people over 18 years of age. The organisations mentioned above also make it clear that vaccinations for young people and children are tested and safe. Unfortunately, many young people have already had COVID-19 and must face the consequences of the plague. There are many points offering comprehensive post-COVID rehabilitation including among others. Upper respiratory tract diseases, neurological or motor injuries. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister. What measures are being taken by the government when it comes to patients who are still suffering from health problems after COVID-19 disease? How much money did the government spend on treating these patients? Does the government notice a downward or upward trend in the number of participants in such turns? I'm asking a friend to fill in the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u80	As mentioned by the honourable Member, many people have already suffered from COVID-19. Among them were many children and many young people who have to face the consequences of this plague. We can't go past it indifferently. Just like adults, they need post-COVID care, and thus places that specialize in such care. Such a place is among others. Independent Public Rehabilitation Sanatorium for Children im. Janusz Korczak in Krasnobrod, who actively conducts activities to rehabilitate young people and children towards the treatment of the effects of COVID-19. Unfortunately, the effects of COVID-19 are still being discovered. These are among others. respiratory problems, neurological changes or mental changes. We ask you to answer the question: How many places in Poland are there in Krasnobrod sanatorium?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u81	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is a very important aspect in the fight against COVID-19. Indeed, the transition to coronavirus infection causes the need for rehabilitation in many patients. At the moment, it is available in the country for both adults and patients under 18 years of age. In order to obtain such rehabilitation, it is necessary, of course, to direct the disease COVID-19 after the end of treatment. The referral is issued by a doctor of health insurance, which is actually any doctor who has a contract with the NFZ, e.g. Family doctor. Rehabilitation can be done in two ways: either in fixed or outpatient mode. Patients are mainly treated with COVID-19 complications and consequences. These may be complications associated with the functioning of the respiratory system, the cardiovascular system, the nervous system, the movement organs or a decrease in muscle strength. This is, of course, assessed using a certain scale that is attached to the referral. Each developer of this program, i.e. any facility that is engaged in rehabilitation, must of course have the appropriate staff and equipment. He must perform rehabilitation in accordance with our regulation. The program guarantees rehabilitation lasting from 2 to 6 weeks. Rehabilitation must not be carried out later than 12 months after the end of treatment with COVID-19. As part of rehabilitation, we offer kinesitherapy, taping, chest taping, bed drains, individual inhalations, oxygen therapy, Balner therapy, therapeutic massage, hydrotherapy, relaxation training, health education, diet therapy, and, of course, psychological care. In addition, each institution participating in the programme provides patients with diagnostic tests, medicines and medical devices that are necessary to achieve the best results of the treatment programme. Domestic rehabilitation is also available. It can be used. In this case, rehabilitation is performed at home. Therapy is quite diverse. Its course depends on the condition of the patient, on the ability of his body. We will not rule out the use of rehabilitation by people under 18 years of age. We're talking about children and young people. Apart from typical spas and stationary rehabilitation wards, rehabilitation of people under the age of 18 also takes place in outpatient mode. It is worth mentioning several examples of facilities: Regional Specialist Hospital in Wrocław, Karpacz Medical Centre, University Children's Hospital in Lublin, Rabka Spa, Regional Specialist Hospital in Krakow, University Children's Hospital in Krakow. These are places where people under the age of 18 are rehabilitated. The National Health Fund has signed 29 agreements with centres that implement rehabilitation benefits for children and young people up to 18 years old. Several dozen underage patients have already benefited from rehabilitation in various voivodships between May and September. Well, maybe it's not much, 'cause he's using rehab. by far more adults, but it is possible for all people under 18, children and young people, to benefit from rehabilitation, if necessary and doctors who take care of people after having been COVID-19, to make such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Pawłowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u84	I'm just gonna ask you one question. Has the government started information campaigns for parents so that they know what is involved in the journey of COVID-19 by children, the effects and complications that may occur? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u85	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, complications and infections of COVID-19 are not very common in children. Most often, young people and children suffer from the disease in a rather mild way. In these cases, there are no such major complications as we see in adults. Often in paediatric wards, if a child has COVID-19, it is associated with RSV infection. It also enhances clinical symptoms. If, after leaving the hospital, the child is still under the care of a pediatrician and is needed, then, of course, the child is directed to rehabilitation. But as I said, there have been dozens of cases requiring rehabilitation so far, so this is quite a small scale, but of course we are prepared to provide rehabilitation care to all children under the age of 18. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u87	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded this item on the agenda. I'm declaring a two-minute recess. We move on to the next item on the agenda, We have 15 minutes of acceleration, but we'll continue in a moment. Two minutes off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 minutes 01 hours 11 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the current state of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in Poland, which is proposed by the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left, will be discussed at this meeting of the Sejm. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply may be given by the representative of the Council of Ministers for more than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may authorise the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Marcelina, from the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u88	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Although maybe I should stop fooling around and start talking to the real Minister of Health, Ms. Sarkowska. Who in the Ministry of Health, or more broadly - the government, decides on the pandemic? This question would be justified if there were any further decisions to be made in the ministry at all. Member of Siarkowska and the company are blackmailing the government, so we're paralyzed, and people are dying. The next countries decide to lockdown for non-vaccines. Czech Republic introduces a vaccination obligation for selected professions. Austria wants all its citizens covered by the vaccination obligation. In France and Italy health passes have long been effective in increasing vaccination rates. Western Europe knows the solutions. Responsible governments work to avoid putting their citizens at risk of death. Even the campaign to encourage vaccination lies with us. Poland is 23rd in the European Union in terms of the number of people vaccinated. However, they lie under respirators and die in the appalling majority of those who haven't been vaccinated. Already in March this year, I asked the Ministry for specific guidelines, for example on pregnancy vaccination, because women who were simply refused vaccination are reported to the parliamentary offices. In Internet forums there are entries of women who are afraid to be vaccinated because they do not know the position of the Polish Society of Gynaecologists and Obstetricians. Unfortunately, not only did the Ministry not issue such guidelines, but it did not organise an information campaign to help pregnant women find out what the facts were. As a result, they get sick and die. Children also get sick because they can't get vaccinated, so they become hostages to those who don't want to get vaccinated. It is estimated that 5% of which will have complications that will probably accompany them for the rest of their lives. The number of excess deaths is soaring. By mid-November this year more than 420 thousand died. persons. In the pre-pandemic year 2019 about 70,000 died in the same period. less people. The Central Statistical Office estimates that since the beginning of the pandemic of excess deaths we have recorded in Poland a total of over 170 thousand. Those aren't dry numbers. That's 170 grand. funerals that didn't have to happen. That's 170 grand. families who mourn their loved ones. COVID dug up these graves, but you're the ones with all the tools at your disposal, looking idly, instead of ripping out his shovel, and you're responsible for every single death. Minister! Doctors in Podhale are already on the verge of nervous and moral exhaustion. They see the futility of a situation where health resources eat another wave of epidemics that could be successfully prevented. Doctors all over the country can't look calmly at the fact that more troops are being locked up because they're going into uninsected oxygen. In Sanok, a cardiac ward was closed, in Zakopane - a gynecological and obstetric ward, in Włocławek - a paediatric ward, in Gostyn - surgery. There's a rise in rebellion among doctors. You haven't prepared the system for the fourth wave, and now you're pretending everything's okay. As a Left, we proposed a clear and effective policy: stop pandemic, stop COVID. We stand as a spokesperson for uninsected persons. We have the courage to say first: stop the anti-vaccines. The lives of all of us are more important than your support posts. Our proposal is simple: vaccination without lockdown; tests for health professionals, education and representatives of other exposed professions, e.g. for the handling of collective transport, i.e. conductors or controllers, but also administrative staff; restrictions for uninsulated and untested; COVID passports as a pass for normality; obligation to present a certificate of vaccination, health certificate or test result carried out in the last 24 hours in the following situations and places: public gatherings and events, gyms and fitness clubs, hairdressing and beauty establishments, hotels and tourist accommodation, gastronomy, shopping centres, churches and places of worship, theatres and cinemas. That can be done. So where does this inaction on vaccination come from? When will the Minister put in place an effective health policy? When will we see COVID passports in Poland? The Medical Council and the Polish Society of Epidemiologists and Doctors of Infectious Diseases make similar demands. We demand that the recommendations of the Medical Council at the premiere be made public and known to the public. Let me get this straight: we're sick of your idiotic policy of watching our loved ones die with their hands on their hands. We're tired of following the murderous stupidity of anti-vaccines. We're tired of deepening the mass grave to which the victims of your thoughtlessness are sent. Start working. Our loved ones, our friends, our families are dying. If you do not act, you will just stand by and watch other Poles die. Today 570 people died (The Bell), 29,000. people got sick. How many more people are gonna die to get you started? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u89	Thank you very much. I ask for an answer from Minister Waldemar Kraska. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, we are now at stage four of the wave of Coronavirus, a wave completely different from the previous one. Why do I say different? Because we're at a slightly different stage. We're a society that's already been sick to COVID. We are also a society that has been vaccinated in more than 50%, and yet patients are still being sent to Polish hospitals. First of all, I would like to refer to the wishes and questions of the honourable Member. First of all, in preparation for the fourth wave, we planned to expand the bed base for patients with COVID-19. From August 31st to today we have increased this bed base by more than 21 thousand. Beds. Nearly 2,000. We've increased the number of ventilators. At the moment for patients infected with COVID-19 we have available 27 694 beds and 2523 ventilators. We have also launched temporary hospitals, hospitals that have been so criticised by the state. They said they weren't necessary. As time shows, these hospitals are very needed. At the moment, 23 temporary hospitals are currently active. Today we plan to open a temporary hospital in Ciechocinek and a temporary hospital in Łódź. Currently in temporary hospitals we have 2529 beds and 360 places for patients requiring respirator therapy. According to our predictions and simulations of experts, we are already in the vicinity of the fourth wave summit, but of course the number of patients who will require hospitalisation will continue to be quite high for the next few weeks. Therefore, by 10 December, we want the number of beds for patients with COVID-19 to be 32 thousand and ventilators to be more than 2.8 thousand. The most important thing, of course, is for us to vaccinate ourselves. At the moment, we see an increase in the interest of Poles taking the first dose, but also the third booster dose. We can see that this interest is growing overnight. And this is very, very good information, because especially this booster dose, which is dedicated to people over the age of 18, as research shows, strongly increases our immunity and protects us from the effects of COVID-19 infection. We are also preparing to vaccinate children from 5 to 11 years of age at the moment. We look forward to the arrival in Poland of these vaccines dedicated to children from this age range. Maybe a little bit of statistics on people who died who were hospitalized and were vaccinated. I think this will also clearly show that vaccinations work, that vaccinations are needed. The number of infections in Poland since the start of vaccination with the second dose is 2020. So many people got sick. The number of infections among vaccinated subjects 14 days after the second dose is 259 120. The percentage of people who were fully vaccinated but who were ill is 12.8, i.e. 10 infected 9 people were non-injected. If we look at deaths, in the case of deaths in Poland since the second dose in Poland the number of deaths is 47 531. The number of deaths among those fully vaccinated after 14 days is 2960, i.e. 6.3%, or out of 100 deaths, 94 were uninsulated. Recordings show that vaccination protects if we consider the deaths of people who have taken a full two-dose dose have been fully vaccinated. Of course, we must also consider their multi-morbidity, age and so-called. other factors that also favored the fact that these people died. If we look at hospitalizations since the second dose, there were 102 048 hospitalized in Poland. Fully vaccinated, he was hospitalized. 5018, i.e. 4.9% , i.e. out of 100 people who were fully hospitalized, there were 95 people who were not vaccinated. In 2021, 34 300 million are spent on the fight against COVID-19. We are now increasing this financial plan of the COVID fund by another 5 billion. We plan for this pot to be over PLN 21 billion next year. We also allocate EU funds of over PLN 1 billion. There were funds intended for the purchase of ambulances, including personal protective equipment. We've done some training. 373 people have been trained to operate ventilators this year. Last year it was almost 120 people. Over 16,000. physiotherapists and pharmacists have been trained to carry out vaccinations. Over 16,000. persons in this group are qualified for vaccination. We have increased at the moment - if necessary, we are supplementing reserves - resources in terms of ventilators, cardio monitors, infusion pumps, mammals, medical beds, oxygen, oxygen cylinders. These are all investments that are transferred to individual entities that are engaged in the fight against COVID-19. Let me just remind you that over 7,000 have been handed over from the Material Reserve Agency. respirators, 25 CTs, 115 digital X-rays, 2.8 thousands. High-flow therapy apparatus, 240 EKG cameras, 85 ultrasound cameras, over 7,000. Hospital beds, 13,000. cardiomonitors and many, many millions of other things, such as protective masks - over 700 million, protective suits - over 6 million, disinfectant fluids - 25 million l. These are really very large volumes that have been designed to fight the coronavirus. But the situation isn't standing still. As you certainly know, a new variant of Coronavirus has emerged, the option of Omicron, which is very concerned by many experts who study the variation of Coronavirus on a daily basis. That is why we have taken steps to reduce the expansion of this new option. We are conducting a review of passenger location cards that have arrived in Poland since 15 October this year. We're directing them to molecular tests to detect a possible variant. Health services have also significantly expanded epidemiological intelligence for people who have returned from countries where the Omicron variant exists. All samples from people who return to Poland from the areas where the Omicron variant was found are kept. We have increased the number of weekly samples so that all suspicious samples are subjected to this quite specific diagnostic method. We've got over ten labs all over the country right now. These are the labs that are under the authority of the chief health inspector. These are also laboratories at medical universities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, we are introducing restrictions that will protect us from the possible emergence of this new variant of Coronavirus. As of today, the 14-day quarantine has been extended to all those returning from these countries in South Africa. This quarantine will be here regardless of whether it is positive or not, this quarantine is mandatory. There will also be a 14-day quarantine for travellers outside the Schengen area. She is extended, but with the possibility of performing tests after the 8th day and in the event of a negative result from such quarantine, these persons will be released. As of today, there have also been sharpenings in many institutions, commercial facilities, gyms, fitness clubs, including gatherings, catering facilities and hotels. These are all those actions that precede the possible emergence of a new variant of Coronavirus in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u91	Thank you very much. I must say that I am impressed with the data that the Minister has provided regarding individuals and diseases in vaccinated and non-vaccine groups. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to ask questions, but I need to speak with you for a moment. There are 60 people who volunteered to ask questions. If we take two minutes, as we agreed at the beginning, these people will only take half of the floor. So I have a proposal for you to agree to the question for one minute. We're gonna try to do this smartly if somebody wants to do it a little longer, okay? Can we do that? [[It's okay.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] I close the list - 60 speakers volunteered to ask a question - and I set the duration of the question for 1 minute. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Latos, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think it is very good that - I agree with Mr Marshal in this regard - these hard data and tragic data, which were also mentioned at the last Friday meeting with representatives of various clubs, have been reported. There, as one of the experts said, 10 times less sick people are vaccinated, 20 times less likely to die. The Minister has given this information and it is worth repeating it. Ladies and gentlemen! These most serious cases, these fatal cases, are the ones that haven't been vaccinated. Hence the appeal to the whole room again. Ladies and gentlemen (the bell), we have agreed on a common compensation fund. I urge you once again to sign this project. We agreed on Friday at the meeting. It is worth taking a joint initiative, because that is what citizens expect us to do together. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[We've been waiting for the compensation fund for months.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! On the last day of the third wave We knew there'd be a fourth wave. Which is why I can safely say that I accuse you of inaction. I accuse you of being cowards who fear a small but aggressive group of anti-vaccines and do not take any action. And I'm accusing you of 170 grand. additional excess deaths, which mean 170 000. families who have lost this year, within 1.5 years. It's very important to me that we have a gun right now. Mr Kraska's statement shows that we are aware that vaccinations are weapons. And we don't use that weapon to the fullest. Where are the COVID passports? Where is the requirement to show either your passport or the current test result? Where's the action to get people mobilized for these vaccinations? You're still assuming that if you get more beds (the bell), you'll get something done. No, we're gonna need even bigger cemeteries. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, We have a daily threat to people's health and lives, a real threat. Today, you reported that 570 people died yesterday 526, a total of 3 days of my entire town died. Since the beginning of the state of government and precisely this carelessness in the approach to actions dies out the city, which is 2000 years old, the first capital of Poland, the city of Gniezno, and you are wondering whether to give employers the opportunity to control people who come to the restaurant, to work. You're still thinking, trying to mobilize local governments. There's an action award there. What has been the result of these actions, and what measures have been given to local governments to combat the COVID pandemic? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, Jack.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u98	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! In fact, in your reply to the Left Club's request, you confirmed what everyone knows. We know that here, in this room, it is known by the specialists of infectious diseases, who appear on television several times a day. The ordinary Poles finally know. The vaccine is really effective. Even if it does not protect against illness, it protects against severe COVID crossing, and it certainly helps to avoid death. So my question is this: When we get the answer from the Minister to the question which the Polish Coalition club has asked you twice or even three times: at a meeting with Marshal Witek, in the Ministry and in writing, is the government considering incentives for vaccination? This could be 600 zł (The bell) for each person vaccinated, it could be a tax relief, it could finally be a gift voucher for pre-Christmas shopping. Come on, make some sense, don't just say you're doing what you can, but there's nothing you can do. [[And don't bother me.]] [[I haven't heard such ridiculous proposals.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u99	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u100	It's hard to get past those ridiculous voices that appear here around this ridiculous discussion started by the messenger speaking in the hood on the platform after 60 studies showed that these masks didn't give anything. People who do not take scientific facts into account juggling scientific data should not be taken seriously and seriously listened to. It's just a discussion with filmmakers who believe that a foil cap protects them from 5G radiation. Let's stop listening to people who just squeal on part of society. But this sting is also attended by the Minister, juggling with data - that supposedly 94% These are the deaths of the uninjected. I guess since the outbreak started, Minister, because between October 22nd and October 29th. For example, 156 died of vaccinations, 360 of those who were not vaccinated. It's 1/3, they're inoculated. So where's the data coming from? How do you count it? Let's stop pissing on part of society, burdening it on everyone, because that's what makes it a witch hunt. You might as well say that (The bell) e.g. obese or abusing tobacco fills, takes up places. They're left with this kind of media chase. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u101	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u102	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The position of Poland 2050 on the epidemic is clear. We demand a government project, we demand the possibility of checking COVID passports not only by employers, but also by service providers, heads of educational institutions. On the other hand, I wanted to ask you a question about other patients, about children suffering from SMA, because a year ago, when we fetched the adoption of the Medical Fund, the media told us that this was the end of the fundraiser for the most expensive drug in the world. These collections are still ongoing, Ministry - I understand that this is a long process - it is in the price negotiation phase as far as the producer is concerned. I wanted to know what the state of these negotiations looks like at the moment, and why this gene therapy despite the positive opinion of AOTMIT is not yet refunded from the Medical Fund, because really children have a drug available at the moment, but it is a medicine that needs to be taken on the advice every few months. Gene therapy is really needed in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Sosnierz, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We haven't been fighting the epidemic since the beginning, we're fighting the consequences of the epidemic. That's the fundamental difference. In order to fight the epidemic, you must not allow infection. To prevent infection, you need to be able to separate the patient from the healthy one. Unfortunately, we have not been able to do this effectively for two years. Here I hear that fortunately for this Omicron, we seem to be starting to get on the right track, but that's after two years and so many deaths. 500 deaths during the day indicate that 2 weeks earlier, 50,000 were ill. - no, a lot more than that, but let's say it's about 50,000. people - and we've detected 15,000, or 35,000. people went between us and continued to infect us. So the basis is the testing system. Let's finally learn to separate the sick from the healthy and put in an effective testing system. The big mistake of the state was that only the symptoms were tested. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I haven't had much time, it doesn't make it clear what I'm talking about, but I hope the main thing has come up - tests for anyone who's been sent and anyone who wants to. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u105	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For more than 2 years, the word "coronavirus" has been changed by all cases. At first it was completely unknown, today we know a lot about it. It is an alien virus for humans, highly pathogenic, with a large possibility of transmission, i.e. spreading, moving from one person to another. People weren't immune to this virus. Natural overall immunity is not sufficient in most cases. Let me remind everyone once again - resistance to Sars-CoV-2 can be achieved by getting sick and vaccinated. Created on this road, gives you a chance of a mild course, a chance of survival. We're in the middle of a fourth wave of pandemic. Many more people get sick, die a lot, we know the daily accounts. It's not just a matter of government, it's a matter of government, it's of all of us, to prevent these sad statistics. Let's give ourselves a chance, let's get vaccinated - this is the only way to get immunity without getting sick. The vaccine won't end the pandemic, but it's the main weapon to fight the virus. My question concerns vaccination statistics in Poland so far. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are the daily possibilities for vaccination? How many active vaccination sites do we have? What groups of individuals can be vaccinated? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret, I am sorry, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u108	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's a very sad day. He's showing what the Minister of Health's inaction is like. Today's data: 29,000. New cases of illness, 570 deaths. Are you going to the record of doing nothing? Are you going on record because you haven't had a strategy in two years when you're fighting COVID? These questions from my previous speaker aren't working. Oversized deaths. That's the thing that hurts every family. The non-vaccine state did not convince you, and the vaccinated state sentenced you to over-dimensional deaths. And that's the biggest scandal in your case. This is the biggest scandal. What are you gonna do? In my town, a closed hospital, people don't have access to a doctor. Then even (the bell) scheduled operations are cancelled. What are you gonna do? Don't go to that record, everyone will remember that you don't care about Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm scared. And my question is simple: When will this total chaos end in Poland? When is this game of appearances gonna end? Ladies and gentlemen, it is said that vaccination must be introduced for certain professional groups. So? Is this happening yet? These obligations should be introduced. Anyway, for example. I heard today that Greece has an obligation to vaccinate people over 60 years of age. I listened to Mr Piecha today, there was a very interesting conversation, and I watched it. But your words don't matter to your law and justice colleagues. You know what I mean. Of course, we need to introduce this duty, control. Very often I take a train, many hours at night, I sit (the bell), next to me is a man who doesn't have a mask who doesn't care about everything. Does anybody control this? Nobody's doing anything. There's no control. I'm just terrified of what's coming. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u112	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At this point, I would like to request our joint fight against the epidemic for auxiliary staff, i.e. non-medical workers in health care facilities. On the one hand, I am pleased that the government responds positively to the proposal of PSL, the Polish Coalition - these people should be paid additionally. However, I am not happy that the form you are proposing is to be a one-time supplement again. We think it should be system support. That's what the employees say, among other things. in the national professional association of auxiliary staff. They don't think you've come to conclusions. If we decide to take a positive step, which is additional remuneration, let us make this aid a system aid so that it is adequate to the effort they are putting into combating the epidemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u113	Thank you. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Quote from Minister Niedzielski, from one of the TV programs: In Poland we have a better solution. It is possible to check the COVID passport, but without discrimination. The Minister argues that entrepreneurs, organisers, service providers can establish rules of participation in events and thus create space for checking COVID passports. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a mixture of half-truths and rude lies. There is no legal basis for such action. There is no legal basis for such demands. These proposals are contrary to the GDPR. They relate to sensitive data, for each employer they are extremely boggy ground. The truth is, you can't get along with each other, you can't create that kind of legal basis. The truth is that because of your incompetence Poland is in the top five in terms of the number of deaths on COVID in the world. This is your fault. It's your responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Bolesław Piecha, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As I thought, we're going to have a political battle, not questions about current information. [[Voice from the room: Because the Prime Minister is lying.]] 29,069, as I recall, infections today. 80,000. with a hook in Germany. This is not just a Polish matter. This is a global issue. Europe also has a huge problem with the fourth wave of pandemics. [[The number of deaths per 100,000.]] That's what we're gonna figure out. First of all, I have to ask questions. The first thing is what we agreed at the meeting on Friday. This is a compensation fund. I think that this is one of the methods of encouraging Poles who are afraid of vaccination - that compensation will be paid, as there will be unwanted vaccination reactions. I understand that the government will support such a project. The second thing is tests. I am opposed to testing everyone as you wish, with one, another, third, fifth test, but I think we should expand the group of authorized (the bell) to direct the tests also to employers. Does the government consider such a project as well? The third case, the most appalling one, is certificates. This is a difficult undertaking. I'm always calling for it, and I'm gonna appeal for it. The certificate isn't for me to have it on my phone. I don't know if it's printed, but it's got something to do with it. To Mr Grammar - this certificate if... Thank you very much, sir. ...you're going to download it from your patient's account, and unfortunately it's anonymous, and you're not going to check your personal information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u117	I invite Mrs Monica Wieliczhowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today 570 people died. 570 people, Minister, just today. These people could mostly live if it weren't for your helplessness, if it weren't for your inaction, if it weren't for your great absence in the fight against the pandemic of the Minister of Health, who is unable to carry out any COVID law by the government and only executes political orders. I have questions, Minister. How many more people have to die before you deal with a real fight against a pandemic? How many more people have to die before you take care not only of stopping mortality on COVID, but also of stopping mortality from other diseases due to lack of hospital facilities, because of canceled procedures or because of delayed consultations? Minister, when will the government, when will the Minister of Health start listening to the Medical Council at the premiere? When will he start listening to the Polish Society of Epidemiologists and Doctors of Infectious Diseases? [[♪ The bell ♪]] When's he gonna start listening to the Chief Medical Council? What else must happen in order for your still well-being to end when it comes to pandemics in Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! Minister! There is no Mr Hoca here, who is still presenting the anti-COVID Act... [[Because he's at the health committee meeting.]] Good. I don't blame you for not being here. I'm just saying he's not here. I state that this is a fact, my fellow Member. [[I, too, find the fact of what it is.]] Okay. ...and who's talking about this bill that she's an ethic act. And I don't expect a dating bill. I expect a strong bill. We all remember, maybe some of us remember... I was at a store in Black Friday, I'm after the third dose of the vaccine - the stores are full, people walk around without masks. Why so far... Make it clear, I'll be happy to vote for it - COVID passports, it just has to come in. People can't just walk around in shops and not follow any restrictions. You're talking about sharpening, I'm in favor of sharpening, I'm a doctor, I'm appealing to everyone to get vaccinated, because this is the only way to fight. But we also have to fight those people who don't want to get vaccinated. COVID passports are the basis that should enter into force in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why can all Poles who travel abroad, COVID passports be displayed and not in Poland? I ask when there will be COVID passports in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u122	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I think we need to answer the question of who is in charge in Poland today. Are you Prime Minister Morawiecki and his government, or a narrow group of anti-vaccine workers who do not want to take care of the health of Poles who are anchored in the club Law and Justice? And I think this is the basic question that the Minister should answer today, because it seems that the Prime Minister and the Government are dancing the way this narrow group is going to play, and it should probably be the other way around. Yesterday 528 deaths, today - 570. It is worth recalling what the Minister said, that people vaccinated 10 times less often get sick, 20 times less often die. Minister, under the ventilators, uninsulated people are 100%. The question is why the government is hiding this information because it's probably the first time we heard about it on Friday at the meeting. This isn't right. It's a lead story, it's a news story, not a cover story. I believe today is the first time the Minister has said this publicly. The quarantine issue is on the head. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, nothing works there. I'm asking when quarantine procedures will be improved when the helpline starts to work, because today it discourages people from testing themselves. [[Please respect the time.]] Thank you very much, sir. Last question: Why hasn't the government presented projects so far that could help contain the pandemic? In particular, I am talking about this law, which is supposed to create a COVID fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u123	Katarzyna Czochara, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Once again today, the opposition presents fake news and lies. You are talking about the inaction of the Polish government in the fight against COVID-D. [[570 deaths - fake news.]] I will quote to you the words of the Minister, your Minister of Health, Mrs. Ewa Kopacz, when the outbreak of swine flu occurred: Sleep quietly, work calmly, enjoy the spring, everything is under control. [[Voice from the room: And it was quiet.]] [[How many died?]] Minister! I have a question: Has the fight against COVID also taken additional measures to improve the qualifications of medical personnel? You told me today from this podium how many billions of zlotys the Ministry gave to fight the COVID. In this fight - because we know... Thank you very much. ...what problems do we have (the bell) with lack of human resources, these are the remains of the Civic Platform governments as well - do we have the resources to increase human resources? Eight years lost... [[Let them go.]] [[Six years running the PiS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u125	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mark Hok from the Civic Coalition Club. Mr Marek Hok. You're welcome. Are you Mr Marek Hok? There isn't. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! Minister! We have a very difficult situation, I'd say dramatic. On the other hand, the common feeling is that we are still crawling in place, the government is crawling in place and there is no concrete proposal. In hospitals, directors have no way of checking which doctor is vaccinated - I talk to many doctors - and this is drama. This is a drama that will disorganize the entire health care system. Another thing is the proposals of the Polish People's Party. We talked about a few proposals: to include private health care in the fight against COVID, to give 600 zł tax write-off to those who are vaccinated. These people don't have to show it, they don't have to brag, but they're gonna write back that tax amount. The basic question is how does the government intend these restrictions that are being introduced, [[♪ The bell ♪]] enforce because there is no procedure here. On the other hand, entrepreneurs say clearly: responsibility is placed on us because the government does not want to make any decision. Question: "What is the COVID passport for then?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u127	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Wojciech Maximowicz, Poland 2050. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u128	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! What to say, there is drama and this drama continues, these are really huge numbers of dead people. It's a thing we can just be sad about, but we have to do what we can. Let's save what we can. There's so little time to do anything else that any solution... The ones that were on the table 2 months ago - because in August there was the first government solution, in September was to be voted - that's the minimum, that's not much. What I was talking about yesterday in the formal proposal: it should be done. There was a briefing, something was going on in the background. Ladies and gentlemen, we can't really in every situation, especially when it comes to existential matters, give in to some political bonds by checking the points of effectiveness of support. At the moment, we will not have the support of those who died (the Bell) and their families. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Trepka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's bad, but instead of helping from the opposition, counsel, all we hear is criticism. [[Voice from the hall: Dorad...]] [[What kind of advice? You have to act, people die.]] Action is being taken. I would like to ask, Minister, if this pandemic continues to grow, is it envisaged to open up further temporary hospitals? Because it's very important. However, from this point of view, I would like to encourage all citizens to immunize themselves because today the vaccine is a weapon. Let's hope scientists come up with a new drug that will help reduce this pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Rosa, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to ask you how you're going to protect children who can't be vaccinated, from getting sick, from post-COVID complications, after getting sick? After all, children living in public spaces, in nursery, in kindergartens, in schools meet people who are not vaccinated, with people who are not sick enough to be vaccinated, do not often show the COVID passport, because they do not have it, do not test, they often do not wear masks and can carry the disease. I wanted to ask, Minister, how much did the number of planned procedures fall? If she fell on average: 30%, 40% ? How much has the number of emergency procedures increased due to the fact that many have been waiting for a hospital site that has been occupied by a man with COVID who has not been vaccinated? What are you gonna say to cancer patients, cardiological patients who are being moved and waiting to save their lives? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Adrian Zandberg, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u134	Minister! You told us here that you're making beds. And I'm wondering if you don't understand, if you're pretending you don't understand, that this isn't about putting beds where people are going to die, it's about reducing the number of deaths. And this number of deaths is a disaster, that's just a disaster. In Poland, more people die from COVID every day than in any other country of the European Union. And it's not a coincidence, it's your government, responsibility, because you didn't introduce COVID-passes, because you didn't introduce strong incentives for vaccination and you didn't introduce restrictions for vaccinateds. Yes, Minister, you're right to say that vaccinations work, but you didn't take this chance because you were afraid of anti-vaccines. And that's how history will remember you. - as cowards who let thousands of people die Only because they were afraid of a loud bunch of cockroaches from the Internet. And two practical things, Minister. One thing: Why aren't you still running tests for kids at school? We know how to do this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can do it, we can afford it, and there's really no argument against it. All we've heard is the expression of the Confederate gamers who think the cotton stick is a tool of torture. Do we really need, Minister, to be subject to state policy just so that we don't expose ourselves to a bunch of brown, often inspired by the Kremlin's leprechauns? [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] That's question number one. And the second practical question: vaccination of children. A few days ago, the Scandinavians started with vaccinations. Vaccinations are possible in accordance with the recommendation of the European Medical Agency. It can already be done at ten. - 11-year-olds without waiting for those deliveries. [[Mr...]] Why aren't we doing this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a doctor of practice, I confirm that when they come to me or report to me for teleporadion, but sometimes and directly, patients, I direct them to mostly non-vaccination tests and tests come out positive. So it's true that now they're mostly not vaccinated. And thank you very much that the government has actually stood up to the task, because the government is doing everything possible to control the pandemic right now. On the other hand, it is we who are inconsistent in the field of public action. We're inconsistent, there's no discipline in society. A call to the law enforcement services in various public places. Poles don't wear masks. Poles stopped fearing the virus because anti-vaccine, anti-segregative trends are spreading. I support all Mr Piecha's questions, and I also ask the Minister: Is it possible to modify the quarantine for children? The point is, if one child is infected, the whole class is in quarantine. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I would like to say more about the appalling thing: on the plane, our Members wear masks, and in the courtroom they show that they do not have to wear masks. It's sad. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u137	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Your complacency shoves you into the chair. And we don't want to talk about excess deaths, which are very much about the dramas of individual families, but about the lack of action. The Lord says you do so much, and in fact you limit communion in December and flights to Botswana. Is this a serious action? Why didn't any Polish household get, as was the case with leaflets about the Polish Lad, information about why it's worth the vaccination? Why are you here presenting dramatic data on the deaths of non-vaccine people, and people don't get this information into their homes? That would be a real vaccination promotion. The second thing is to control who's vaccinated and who's not. We are all waiting for this bill and urge the ruling party to present its solutions. If they're good, we'll back them up. In the hospital, persons scheduled for a scheduled procedure - the Minister knows - cannot be forced to test themselves earlier (the bell) and no one can require a COVID passport from them, so that the untested person goes to the hospital room without symptoms and we do not know whether he is infecting another sick person or not. It's not really about the privilege of going to a restaurant, it's not about the privilege of going to a movie, it's about health and life. That is why we are calling for solutions as soon as possible. Do not be afraid. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u139	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 570 deaths aren't excessive deaths, they're just deaths. If there was an air accident or a road accident and 15 people were killed, it would be national mourning. And these daily deaths are minimized by the government and by the PiS. The only measure that should actually be introduced in this situation is compulsory vaccination. Just have the civil courage and the political courage to do it. It is good that vaccination has been given with the third dose, that vaccination has been accelerated with this third dose of people who are over 50 years of age, and the sad truth is that it has been accelerated because there are unused vaccines, because both the government and the president are afraid to carry out a fair promotion of vaccination. Compulsory vaccinations are therefore required. I would also like to ask you about the situation that took place two days ago (The Bell) at the airport of Sławica in Poznań, when the inspection did not pass up your third dose, because there is a mess in the regulations, a mess on the government side of the patient. gov.pl and people... Thank you very much, madam. ...which are vaccinated with a third dose, they are listed as persons who must undergo a 14-day quarantine, which is not true. I'm asking you to get these rules straightened out.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u141	Please, Mr Andrzej Kryj, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u142	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Just now my previous speaker stated that the death of those 570 who died as a result of this disease was the responsibility of the government, the Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, among those who have died so far, there are also our loved ones, our friends, our friends. It's just as painful for us as it is for you. Stop playing your political game at the deaths of these people, because it's disgraceful what you're doing right now. Ladies and gentlemen, on 11 November, another variant was detected, Omicron. It is said that it is very contagious, that it poses a very high risk. Many countries introduce far-reaching restrictions, suspend flights to and from African countries. I have a question for the Minister. What research facilities do the government have at the moment to diagnose the emergence and spread of this virus? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This will indeed be a big problem for all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Waldy Dzikowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u144	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Patients can be divided into two groups during the fourth wave of pandemic. The first and dominant group of patients are people who have been somewhat ill of their own choice because they have decided not to inoculate themselves despite obvious evidence that vaccination protects significantly from the disease, and if it occurs, it affects the mild course of the disease. The second group of patients are patients with cardiac, neurological or oncology disorders who are not admitted to hospitals because branches are largely converted into covid wards. These aren't patients who got sick by choice. Why do we treat one group of patients in a privileged way, increasing significantly the number of beds for them - while understanding the increase in this number - at the expense of other patients? Who gives people who decide this, the right to determine which group (the bell) of patients is more important to us and whose lives are more valuable? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! More and more Poles can already sign up for a third, similar dose of vaccination. But at the same time more and more Poles complain that although they took the third dose, the validity of their covid passport was not automatically extended. This can happen if someone at the vaccination site gets confused and indicates in the system that he has given an additional dose for immunocompromised persons, not a booster dose. For now, the covid passport with extended term only works in Poland and protects from quarantine. Imperfectities in the Polish system of vaccination certificates come to light 4 weeks after the start of vaccination with the third dose. Minister, a few questions. How did this happen? Why didn't you check the system before starting vaccination with the third dose? Why didn't you set up the system? How are you going to solve this problem? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u148	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! After reading today's work schedule, we expected a substantive discussion on a very important subject. I think many Poles expected such a discussion. Unfortunately, this discussion has once again turned into a political attack and exploitation of this difficult situation for party purposes. I thank the Minister for providing such reliable, comprehensive information on the current situation in Poland. The pandemic, as you have already noticed, is a global problem. All countries of the European Union and in the world, on all continents, face pandemics, make very different decisions, from very strict to very liberal, but the effects of ending pandemics in no country are observed. Therefore, we need to look together for some solutions that will play an important role in the fight against the pandemic in our country (The Bell), taking into account Polish conditions. The scandalous statements made by some Members, contrary to scientific laws, should not take place. This is not the place where they should be presented. Thank you very much, Member. Minister. I have a question about the new version of the virus. Do we actually have cases of this virus in Poland at the moment, and if so, in which voivodships? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u149	I ask Mr Mark Owl of the Civic Coalition to speak. Thank you very, very, very much, Commissioner. Mr Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You're cowards. Yes, all of you sitting on the right side of the room. You are cowards running away from responsibility for Poland and Poles. [[Who's talking?]] You choose the pillars of support and power at all costs instead of real concern for people. You're running away from responsibility because you're afraid to take responsibility for anything, and people are dying -- 100,000. Oversized deaths per year. Only today - 570 victims of COVID. People like you have no moral right to continue ruling. [[Disgraceful! What are you saying?]] You have no right to continue with politics because you failed your responsibilities exam. [[Shame, sir, shame!]] Finally, I dedicate to you a quote from Bulgaria: Cowardice is not one of the most horrible infirmities, it is the most horrible infirmity! Disgraceful and disgraceful. [[You shouldn't be here at all.]] [[You are the disgrace of this Seym. How much you got in you, man, venom.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, parliamentary club Lefta. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! By unsuccessful attempts to identify infected people and by very low levels of vaccination unfortunately we have hundreds of deaths a day in Poland. Thousands of people benefit from help and benefit from the help of hospitals. Hospital units are converted into COVID units, but therefore patients who suffer from other diseases must wait for months and sometimes even a year or two years for admission to the hospital. Hospitals are trying to save this situation. They buy medicine, they heal people. But it turns out that the NFZ probably lost its liquidity, because the oncology hospital in Bielsko-Biała has been waiting for 4 months for funding for the treatment of sick patients and the purchase of medicines. Medical secretaries, medical recorders at the COVID units that worked in March-May, have not yet received funding. How much money do you owe the hospitals? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many hospitals are waiting for money, how much do you owe them, what is the amount? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[...badly accounted for.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Today you confirm to Poles that you are a total opposition, giving false, unfair information that nothing is happening in the fight against the pandemic. They are unfair not only to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Minister of Niedzielski, the services and authorities of the state, but also to the institutions that are involved in the vaccination process. I want to talk about the firefighters of the Volunteer Firefighters who are involved in the action. I would like to express my respect for the firefighters from Złoczew near Sieradz, who have taken the second place in the classification, at this moment receive 500,000. zł on the new fire truck. Dear fellow Members, thank you very much. Minister! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will firefighters also be involved in the process of booster doses? Thank you. [[Voice from the room: This is not a parliamentary statement.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u155	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Margaret Tracz, the Greens.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Over 6.5,000. Deaths in November alone due to COVID-19 are a balance of negligence committed by the government with the Ministry of Health at the head. You ignored the risk of the fourth wave of pandemic that scientists have been talking about in the summer. We, as Greens, already in July, called on the Minister of Health for concrete action, for the introduction of a vaccination obligation. Austria did this a few weeks ago, and it is likely that other European countries will bring it in. It's about creating a new system, a real system of incentives for vaccination instead of eyewashing with a lottery. Encouraging such as 2 days of full-time lay-off, such as vouchers for use in catering or in the world of culture, as well as restrictions for people who refuse vaccination. In addition, (the bell) the penalisation of the counterfeiting of vaccination and testing documents. Does the Minister intend to introduce such measures? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u158	Minister! It's a good thing the labs are coming. There are more than 10 of them, highly qualified personnel, technological facilities to perform full-genome virus sequencing. The Omicron virus is spreading in Europe, and we have no chance that it won't reach us. I have a question: How many tests per 10,000. Do we currently perform in Poland in comparison with the European Union? This information would be important for us, but especially for Poles and Poles vaccinated and - with emphasis - not vaccinated to break the fearsome dream of the government, to at least reduce the government's strategy somehow, and about tens of thousands of dead and disabled following COVID [[♪ The bell ♪]] and other diseases, the voters will probably soon forget. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u160	Thank you, Marshal. I wanted to ask you about the following. Pfizer conducts clinical trials in many countries on a new drug against COVID-19 called Paxlovid. The initial results of this new drug study indicate that it is highly effective - 89%. It mainly protects people who are predisposed to severe course and to death. This medicine is being studied by the American Food and Medicines Agency. It will decide whether it will be allowed in an accelerated manner. A similar drug, but with less effectiveness, has already been introduced in the UK by Merck. I wanted to ask if the Ministry is monitoring progress in these procedures and whether it will be willing to allow such medicine to be brought to Poland, which will be taken simply in the form of tablets. Its effectiveness is high in the first phase, of course, before (the bell) multiplys the virus. Just one question, Marshal, let me. The disinformation campaign of the anti-vaccine movement, in my opinion, is getting stronger. They also visit our parliamentary offices with passwords of segregation, the Holocaust, threats, etc. I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry to be more involved in the justification for inefficiency or falsehood contained in the information of the anti-vaccine movement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u161	Thank you very much, madam. Please, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! Minister! According to the Ministry of Health data, 19,000 have been hospitalized since the start of the pandemic. The children died and 30 of them died. According to press reports today, more and more children with coronavirus are going to hospitals and, moreover, they are going to be in worse and worse condition. The only chance to protect their health and life is to vaccinate all those who can. Meanwhile, the government prefers to bow down to anti-vacillaries who are shaking the Ministry of Health today and pretending that a few hundred people died a day is not a problem. So I'm asking for specific data. How many children have been hospitalized every month since August, according to age groups? How many children died during this period, and how old were they? How many children who have been infected with COVID-19 since the start of the pandemic have been diagnosed with post-COVID complications and what are the complications? I'm also asking for information, including age groups. When exactly are we gonna get a chance to vaccinate children from the age of five? And what exactly are you going to do to encourage parents to vaccinate their children? What are you going to do and what are you planning to do specifically to increase the number of Poles vaccinated to protect those who can't? I know you have the data. If the Minister won't answer me today, please answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Duszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u164	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! What is the chance that COVID-19 patients will be able to take a cure for Coronavirus at the beginning of next year? Who will first be able to receive it? You have just mentioned American agencies that are conducting drug research. Do pharmaceutical companies in Poland also carry out such research? What is the limit of our ability now in the fight against COVID-19? What further long-term action can we expect if we cross it? Last question, Minister: Do we have at this point a confirmed case of a new variant of coronavirus in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u165	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few numbers. Multispecialist hospital in Gorzów Wielkopolski - this year gas payments amounted to PLN 3 295 493,12. According to the tender decision for 2022 - 9 696 901,70 PLN, three times more. For electricity this year - 2 236 985, next year - 4 147 166 PLN. Ladies and gentlemen, how do you imagine this? How can both Gorzów Hospital and others treat sick people? How are you going to compensate, support, help? If such charges are due for electricity (the bell), for gas, what will be the treatment? People with COVID are coming. Therefore, the question is: How do you intend to support health care institutions by supporting them in connection with these cosmic charges they have to pay?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As to whether the case of the Coronavirus pandemic is important to the Minister, let the best fact be that the Minister is not at our meeting today. The absence of Minister Niedzielski during such a debate is a testimony to how much the government attaches importance to the fight against pandemics. A few thousand deaths last week. The largest number of people in quarantine for two years. It's just two data that should crush the head of the health department. They show the incompetence that has been seen in the last few weeks. What the government has to offer is time to wait out. Wait out the fourth wave. The question is, is he able to wait out the next deaths and the sadness of the families who are experiencing these deaths. Minister, the request that you apply the Left's strategy simple and legible, which will give you a chance (The Bell) that there will actually be fewer people sick and dying in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u169	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Ewa Cicholska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u170	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of pandemics - you know perfectly well - is a global problem. It's not just the government's problem, it's not just the Minister of Health, it's the problem of all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, we are public figures. Let's all ask ourselves what we've done to promote vaccination among our constituents, among their loved ones. At my Spring-Summer events, there were vaccination points everywhere. Your constituents could have gotten their hands on it, my constituents could have just been vaccinated. What have we done in this regard? Dear citizens, I encourage everyone to promote vaccination. Let's do it. Minister! I have a question for you: What will the government do in terms of investment to support the vaccination programme and Polish hospitals? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Trela, Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! Minister! 223 524 infections, 3327 deaths. Exactly nine days ago, the Left presented to you Marshal Witek concrete solutions. You and your boss have done absolutely nothing. This is your fault. That's why I'm asking you two questions. When are you gonna start being responsible and start a real fight with the coronavirus? I expect real action from you because you are the Minister of Health, not the President of the Central Statistical Office, so please don't tell us about the occupied beds. And question number two. When are you finally going to be brave to stand up to the group of anti-vaccines you have in those deserted seymnastic benches today? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u174	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! Yes, every day we are informed of how many new diseases there are, how many deaths there are. There are days of the week when there's more, there's less in others. I have a question. We were hoping the number of cases of COVID-19 would drop. When is the peak expected? Today, a very high number has been reported again. I also have a question for you. As I sit here in this room and watch, I see that, yes, Members have masks, but some have them on their chin, others have them under their noses. We don't follow the restrictions ourselves, and we demand it from other people. I also encourage vaccination and am full of trust (the bell) to our minister and to our government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I recently went to the S.R. and was examined by people wearing suits. During the interview it turned out that SOR employees who are exposed to direct contact with patients with COVID do not have an allowance related to the work of a medical worker, COVID. You introduced a new regulation in November, which states that rates are hourly and can only be granted to medical staff working in hospital departments dedicated to COVID. Meanwhile, SOR employees are deprived of these allowances. Minister! I ask you to amend this regulation. I'm asking these people to be seen. They asked me during this study (the bell) to give this to the Minister. Thank you very much, sir. One more thing. I'm proof that a person who has been vaccinated goes through this disease lightly. Let's do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u177	Thank you. Mrs Karolin Pavlichak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It must be made clear, concretely and clearly, that in the fight against the pandemic, the government suffered a total disaster. The numbers and all the statistics show this. The situation is critical. The incapacity of the health system has been fully exposed. The question is very simple and concrete. How much have you increased your expenditure on health care since the start of the pandemic and in which specific areas? I'm asking for full information on the amounts. What did you spend that money on, why did you increase it? Did you spend it on payouts for medical and non-medical health professionals, or on infrastructure, or on other security features? Please respond in writing. One more thing. I believe that the exemptions from wearing masks provided by some Members who are eager to use them should be absolutely checked. Who gave the release, and on what grounds? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, for example. Mrs Siarkowska is brazenly taking advantage of this and is walking around the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u179	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Maria Siarkowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The total opposition is pushing the government to introduce unconstitutional sanitary segregation. Why? Because the opposition is counting on riots. He wants to take some of the Poles out of work and get desperate people on the street. Yeah, that's the strategy, street and abroad. Members of the total opposition have been doing nothing else for years. They're trying to destabilize Poland to regain power. I think there is no doubt on the right that they are not after the good of Poland or the good of Poles, they do not care about it at all. They want their power back. Let's not get caught up in their trap. The sanitary separation will not solve the pandemic problem, it will create new social divisions and may seriously destabilise the situation in our country. At a time when Russia is gathering troops for another attack on Ukraine and when Lukashenka attacks our eastern border with migrants (The Bell), I call for us to care not only for health but also for the unity of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u182	Dear Marshal, We find out all the time that this room is full of so-called. COVID-iots. I would also like to say to you, my dear Minister of Health, but you cannot be called that today. You're the minister of the disease because long ago you and your prime minister, Sunday, you abdicated the health minister's chair and put public health in the hands of the filmmakers. Which is why I'm going to ask you when you're going to cancel the commitments of psychiatric hospitals, rehabilitation centers -- there are no planned benefits because of the limitations of the COVIDs that you're introducing on your own, an inefficient policy around the pandemic. This is really the specific money these health care institutions need. I can't imagine the situation right now, that not only is health care critical, you'll still be demanding, for example. reimbursement of money from the Opole Centre for Rehabilitation to the NFZ for failing to perform planned benefits, when it was impossible to perform them, for example. This health care facility was transformed into a COVID hospital, which was completely unjustified and contributed to the numerous losses associated with the operation of this facility specifically (The Bell). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Prokop-Paczkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS government, cowardly against anti-vaccines, premeditatedly leads to unnecessary deaths. After the dead, there is a corpse and here, of course, you are cowards, because until today, COVID is not on the list of infectious diseases. This would mean that the dead must be buried within 24 hours. Although the president of the Polish funeral society called for this, there is no order for cremation until today. Some of the corpses are placed in foil bags and buried like this, which means that after 15 years they become a ticking biological bomb. When are you gonna stop chickening out? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone in this room knows that vaccinations help. The disease in vaccinated people is milder, among them there are not many deaths, they do not die. You die of inoculations, who have many other diseases, which also determine that they can die. Minister! What else can the government do to encourage Poles to vaccinate? We know that in countries with 80% vaccinees, the number of infections is high, but mortality is lower. I would like us to talk more and more about the fact that people who have been vaccinated gently pass the COVID, so that we can think about what might cause the people (the Bell) to want to inoculate themselves, especially when it comes to young people. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Szczerba. There's no envoy. Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Fak, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Every 2.5 minutes someone in Poland dies of COVID. It's terrifying data, but let's remember that these aren't the only deaths caused by pandemics, government inactions, and above all your capitulation against anti-vaccines. Tumours, heart disease, kidney disease and diseases that could be treated are also dying, but hospitals are overcrowded, mostly occupied by people who are not vaccinated with COVID. No vaccination obligation, capitulation against anti-vaccines is discrimination against vaccinated patients and patients, that is taking away their right to health and life. Why do you allow such discrimination?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Absent. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition. I invite you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In November we officially have 214,000. New cases of infections, almost 6600 people died, and today the state representing the government is asking how many new beds will be created in hospitals. Today we should ask questions about what is the strategy to prevent these people from going to hospitals, how vaccination is promoted, how COVID passports are used. These are instruments that have been completely forgotten today, and it is through a positive campaign that vaccinations should be promoted, and those who choose to do so should be promoted. Today, the package action should not focus on the Polish Lad, but on promoting vaccination. Each apartment should be accessed by a flyer, information, encouragement to be vaccinated. We are in a very difficult situation and we should sooner leave it (the bell) but we can only do so through courageous and responsible decisions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The whole world has been in a different reality for two years. I have listened to today's debate and you have really been disappointed because you have no strategy, no guiding thought to help solve problems. [[We?]] You're only criticizing, you're against it. Whatever good we bring in, you're anti. [[But you didn't bring anything good in.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A great respect for the minister, the ministry, as well as for all the medics. In these conversations I did not hear a word of gratitude to the labs, because they are the ones who, in the quietness of the laboratories, diagnose and help us to overcome the pandemic. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister about what the laboratories look like. Are new ones being played? Because hospitals laboratories are the health safety of Poles. Your labs were closing and doing (Bingle) outsourcing really for your friends. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. Absent. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice. Absent. Mrs Monica Falej, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The State of the Ministry of Health! Maybe lack of health, because unfortunately this health does not have Polish and Poles in the current situation. The Pandemic reaps a terrible harvest, and every day you signal the consequences - sickness and death. This sounds today in almost every speech here, in this room, also in the media and from what doctors say every day. That's why we demand that you settle your inadequacies. And inaction is not only a matter of recent months, but actually years of neglect. Therefore, I have a question about what the Ministry of Health has done to ensure that hospitals do not close branches because there is no one to work on them for years. That's what's happening now. It's on such a scale that there's not gonna be anyone to treat. Even though no resident has appeared in the Elbląg Voivodeship Hospital for five years in neurology (the bell) even though the hospital can accept as many as six a year. I can give you tens of these examples. And where are the other ministers? They're not doing anything right now. So what kind of security measures did you take... Thank you very much, madam. ...Polish hospitals so they can finally work according to their destiny? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I addressed the Minister with an interpellation on a case concerning nurses employed in the Regional Observatory of Infectious and Observation Hospital in Bydgoszcz. These nurses were deprived of the COVID supplement on 1 June, and the Minister in his reply informed me that they had been taken legally and that they had received COVID patients, and that there was no reason to increase their pay. On 1 November, you amended this regulation in such a way that the COVID supplement should be used for every hour of work with patients who have COVID. Well, Minister, if that is the case, in my opinion there will be no nurses in Polish hospitals willing to receive patients with COVID. Because not all patients at once (the bell) are sick with COVID. These nurses - if there are two or three cases within 8 hours of reception - will, I understand, belong to the COVID allowance in one hour's work. I'm asking you to verify that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u197	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, the parliamentary club of the Left, Mr Mark Rutka. Mark, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the last decade, national mourning in Poland due to mass disasters was announced twice - in March 2012 after the railway disaster near Szczekociany and in December 2018 after the explosion of methane in the Czech mine, where Polish miners worked. In the first disaster, 16 people were killed, in the second - 13. Only yesterday's data from the Ministry of Health speaks of 23 deaths only because of COVID-19, and only in one province, Małopolska. All deaths due to COVID and diseases associated only on 29 November were 526, or 32 times more than the victims of the crash at Szczekociany or the explosion in the mine. Each of these deaths is pain, suffering families, enormous social costs, but also responsibility. The responsibility of those who have failed. It's probably easier to pinpoint the guilty one and blame a particular typist, a set-up or a strategist than a specific politician. But responsibility is always and always from her, also considering your conscience, you will not escape. Responsibility isn't just about actions or lack of them, it's about words. The most appalling are the situations where the most important politicians in the country keep an eye on anti-vaccines or so-called. And they say, "I don't like someone operating with a needle around my arms -- it's the president. Sharpenings for non-vaccines? No, because Poles have a gene of opposition - he is the Deputy Minister of Health. Or maybe: Many politicians who use coronavirus scaring as part of a political game should put ice in their panties - it is the chief sanitary inspector. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Exactly.]] Already before the pandemic, Poles against citizens of other European Union countries were much worse in terms of their health, especially in terms of cancer, diabetes or cardiovascular disease. According to Eurostat, we are in second place in Europe, I stress: in Europe and not in the European Union, the worse situation is only in Serbia. I'm talking about the so-called. Excessive deaths. Poland had 140 thousand of them. 140,000. deaths above one-year average. Approximately it was as if Gorzów Wielkopolski and Pułtusk were killed together from the map of Poland or 9 thousand were killed from the map of Poland. railway disasters such as the one under the Szczekociany. In Poland we did not have and we do not deal with the second, third or fourth wave of pandemic. In Poland since 8 April Ub. r., when only one day 954 people died, we are dealing with a pandemic tsunami. So what if the Ministry of Health, also today, boasts of adding COVID beds? Beds, ladies and gentlemen, they don't cure, that's what doctors and specialist equipment are for. Now for a concrete example. Yesterday, the Pomeranian voivode by decision from behind the desk in his office informed about the conversion of 50 beds in the University Clinical Centre in Gdańsk to the so-called. COVID beds. Following this decision, the hospital's largest authorities in Pomerania decided that from 1 December until further notice the action of the Clinical Emergency Department and the planned adoptions would be suspended. Fortunately, we have responsible local authorities in Pomerania and after the intervention of the Marshal of the voivodship after a few hours the hospital changed its mind and the decision to close the Clinic Emergency Department was suspended. Of course, the question remains, for how long. Last Friday, in a situation where there were only 31 free beds in the Pomeranian Voivodeship, the Pomeranian Voivodeship government called for the temporary hospital to resume operations as soon as possible on the basis of the MMA sanatorium in Sopot, which has been refurbished and prepared to work during the previous pandemic waves. To this day, however, the voivode has not made such a decision, and it must be remembered that it is 3 weeks to start the hospital. The Minister said the bed base was increased. Therefore, I have a question: Has the cold store in the sector also been increased? We are not facing the possibility of national tragedy, we already have this tragedy. Now is the time for decisive, radical and responsible decisions to limit the number of victims and the dimension of this tragedy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u199	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Waldemar Kraska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am a doctor, but also a politician and deciding on political activities, probably in my naivety I thought that health care, health and life of Poles would always be the primary goal of all of us in politics, not of pursuing ad hoc political goals, ad hoc party goals. This debate today shows, however, that I was wrong once again because the opposition has nothing to offer but criticism and constant criticism. It's happening again. [[But you're responsible for health and life...]] I am already many times in the Seym, and we always hear from you only that you have done nothing, nothing has worked, nothing good has happened in the Polish health service. [[Minister, the government is responsible for people's health and lives.]] Last Friday, on the initiative of your Marshal, we met with all the wheels and parliamentary clubs to develop joint actions, joint actions in connection with COVID-19, which would be accepted by all the political forces present in this Parliament. I have made three proposals which, of course, have received general approval. All the clubs and wheels agreed that it had to be introduced, that there was an agreement. So? The Law on the Compensation Fund, which is now and can be signed, has not been met by the State from opposition with acceptance, you do not submit these signatures. There are harsh words here about cowardice. And what do you call your attitude? [[There's gonna be a committee, we're gonna work, there's gonna be a project.]] You don't have the guts to sign up for what you're... You've said many times that this should come in. At this Friday meeting, we all agreed that this law was needed, a law which contains only a purely aspect of the compensation fund. You don't have the guts to sign it. And that is the whole truth about opposition in Poland. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[We're gonna process. Where's the project?]] This is the whole truth about opposition in Poland. When we want some projects to be cross-party, you run away from it. [[You guys rock.]] You call us and you accuse us of cowardice, you do the same. [[Where's the project, Minister?]] There's a project, please sign it. [[We'll be working on it next week.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Many specific questions have also been asked here. Of course, I won't be able to answer all of them... [[You don't have the majority.]] ...but I think that when it comes to what we also agreed on on Friday, i.e. the extension of testing of Poles, there was full agreement and we will, of course, introduce it by regulation. We want tests to be available to all Poles. We talked mainly about those groups that are most vulnerable to contact with many people. We were talking about health care, we were talking about education workers, administrative staff, but also about many other departments where we see that this possibility of testing ourselves in a free way, not having the consequences of going straight from the vending machine to quarantine, is very beneficial. And we're gonna bring it in. Without you, we'll bring it in. [[Minister, what about the students?]] We will come to that in a moment, sir. I think it's also very important that we may be able to test people who don't even have any symptoms at the moment, but suspect that they've had contact with someone who was or is infected to ensure that they're able to test. They also asked if our labs could do so many tests. If we look at genetic tests, we have 321 laboratories available right now, i.e. The daily power of these tests is approximately 200,000. Today we know we've done over 100,000. In the last 24 hours. I regret that Poles are not willing to test, but these possibilities are, we expand them. We also have a very good opportunity to test with an antigen test, this rapid test, where the result is after 15 minutes. They're already testing at such a level that they're very reliable, but you just have to take advantage of it. You're talking about many deaths - that's a fact. But also many doctors, practically all doctors who are currently dealing with patients infected with the coronavirus, alert that Poles report to hospitals far too late. It's 10 and 12 days. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It's not funny. Madame, this is not funny, really in the case of such a late notification, it is most often fatal. Therefore, appeal to all countries: if you are in the media, raise it, let the Poles not wait until the last moment, let them report as soon as possible. The first five days are very important, because then the drugs we have are working. This is my appeal to all of you. We should really contact our family doctor as soon as possible, or the hospital emergency department, or the emergency room. We also want to see the physical vaccinations for children over 5 years of age, which will probably take place as early as 13 December. The Member asked about testing children. Right now, we're waiting for the expert opinion... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: This is a crime.]] ...also our consultant, who's gonna tell us if we should do this. [[...1/3 doses, just like the Danes. They're already inoculating 10-, 11-year-olds 1/3 of the dose. EMA's recommendation allows for this.]] We've been planning this vaccination since December 13th. [[Why not before?]] By this day, we'll have those vaccines that are dedicated. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But children do not die. Why vaccinate them?]] [[Please don't disturb me. This is the Minister.]] Also, ladies and gentlemen, we have talked many times about medicines that are already in the final phase as regards medicines against COVID-19, medicines that reduce the risk of death or severe conduct. We're talking here right now, mostly one drug is exchanged: Molnupyravir. This is a drug that, too, seems, will be available in our country in December. That's the only cure, ladies and gentlemen. If we don't protect ourselves from infection, we don't vaccinate ourselves, we're already treating the symptoms. The effectiveness of this medicine, as reported by the manufacturer, is also changing at the moment. The first information was that 50% is a protection against serious complications due to coronavirus infection or death. At this point, we see that these tests show that this is 30%. So vaccination is still the most important thing, and the most important thing is to follow these simple rules: mask, distance and disinfection. We've forgotten that. Therefore, my appeal is that we observe this in those places where it is ordered at the moment. The services that are obliged to do so, the police and the health services, are also enforcing this right now. There's over 8,000 a day. lectures, mandates or requests to the courts for non-wearing. [[Voice from the hall: What about trains?]] On trains, too, Member. [[Voice from the room: But no one does.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is another debate in which, as always, we show... [[Voice from the room: We'll have a chat.]] That's right, it's just talking, attacking the government, and we're bringing nothing more to this than an ad hoc political profit. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Why don't you guys get to work?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u201	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Currently, we have a high degree of coronavirus infection. Yesterday 19,074 cases of infection arrived, 526 people died and 19,646 people recovered. As of 30 November, 3 540 061 cases of infection with SARS-CoV-2 were registered in Poland. A total of 83,583 people have died so far. The number of beds occupied due to COVID-19 is 21 172 and the number of ventilators occupied is 1825 and 681 485 people were quarantined. Today, the record of the dead fell during the fourth wave: 570 people, of which 161 people died because of COVID-19 alone. Despite the difficult epidemiological situation, 27 694 beds are prepared in Poland for infected patients. So we have 6362 free beds and 635 free ventilators. What is the situation in the range of free beds and ventilators in individual voivodships? In the current pandemic state, do individual COVID hospitals have the right number of doctors and nurses needed to treat patients? Are further COVID hospitals expected to be established in the event of further infections?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u203	I would like to thank the parliamentary club of the Left for running the case. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the extension of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020, print No 1797. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the R &amp; D report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with the extension of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 (prints No 1775 and 1797). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u204	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the extension of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period, print No 1775. The project was very widely consulted, among others. with trade union organisations, employers' organisations, the Joint Committee on Government and Local Government, the Council of Social Dialogue, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, the National Agricultural Support Centre, research institutes, social organisations, as well as local governments of voivodships. Most of the comments submitted were taken into account in the project under investigation. The proposed amendments involve an extension of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 in accordance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2020/2220 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 December 2020. The need to extend the implementation of the RDPs is due to the fact that the legislative procedure relating to the European Commission's legislative proposals for the common agricultural policy after 2020 has not been completed in time to enable Member States and the European Commission to prepare all the elements necessary for the application of the new legal standards and strategic plans of the common agricultural policy. Consequently, the transitional Regulation ensured that the provisions of the current CAP framework covering the period 2014 to 2020 and that payments to farmers and other beneficiaries continue to apply, which guarantees predictability and stability during the transitional period for 2021 and 2022, until the date of application of the new legal framework covering the period beginning on 1 January 2023. During the work of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the project was discussed. No substantive amendments were tabled. The project was accepted by all members of the Commission. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development welcomes the proposal submitted by the government to amend certain laws in connection with the extension of the programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u205	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Adam Oldakowski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u206	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present a position vis-à-vis the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the extension of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020. The Law and Justice Club fully supports the solutions proposed in the above-mentioned project. The proposed amendments are linked to the extension of the RDPs for the period 2014 to 2020 in accordance with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 December 2020. The project was consulted with agricultural union organisations, employers' organisations, agricultural agencies, etc. The entry into force of the proposed regulation will have a positive impact on the situation and regional development of agriculture, making it possible to make use of EU funds allocated to the RDPs in 2014 and 2020. It will be possible to increase, among others. activation of the rural community within local action groups which will not have to expect reimbursement of expenditure incurred from paying agencies. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the bill presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u207	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Romuald Aichler, parliamentary club of the Left. There it is. I'm sorry, Romek. I have to apologize. Peter was late. Peter, don't be late. I'm so sorry. Sit down, please. Late, but as usual, Mr Piotr Boris. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I am so sorry. At the same time, the committee's work continued, so getting in on time... Ladies and gentlemen! The subject matter of our work is print No 1775, which includes a proposal to amend certain laws in connection with the extension of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020. We make a positive recommendation to this bill. All the changes are due to delays in the introduction of the common agricultural policy for 2021 and 2027 at European level, and the European Parliament and the Council have therefore prepared relevant documents to extend all regulations for an additional period of 2 years. The delay was due to the fact that work had been carried out and that there was a discussion on the future of agricultural policy. It is therefore necessary to extend existing legislation at national level. This will allow the implementation of RDPs within 2 years, i.e. 2021 and 2022. Uniform rules on the common agricultural policy will enter into force in 2023. There is therefore a need to amend six laws. We support these changes. One of them concerns the amendment of the Construction Law. This will allow you to create joints without building permission. Against drought, so water retention... Ponds with an area of between 1 000. m2 and 5 000. m2 can be created without appropriate building permits. Only an appropriate notification will be required. In addition, the Act introduces a number of amendments to improve communication as regards the procedures in which the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture participates. This action as part of the informationization of the entire administrative procedure and processes is most desirable. The next package of cases concerns so-called. regional strategies in the context of local development. We support the solutions put forward. This will, of course, exclude the marine and fishing fund, but will help to continue the enormous work carried out in Poland by hundreds of local action groups, which are provided with adequate funding. This allows, in fact, local development, for smooth implementation by local action groups, so-called. The LAG, all the needs arising from the strategies adopted at local level. First of all, it is about reaching farmers, processors, municipalities and full coordination in these matters. Additional issues include risk management issues, limits in implementing rules, exemption of research institutes with the status of State research institute from the obligation to provide safeguards for the proper performance of obligations in certain contracts excluding beneficiaries and members of the consortium that form part of the public finance sector. We support this project. I don't think there will be any amendments on this part of us. The bill should enter into force as soon as possible. This will allow smooth execution of tasks during this 2-year period, i.e. so-called. 2 years transitional period. Following the adoption, we assume that by October next year the Common Agricultural Policy Strategic Plan will be able to move smoothly to the implementation of all support actions for both Pillar I and Pillar II within a 5-year period. These are direct payments and assistance under the RDP from 1 January 2023. So that we support this bill. It has been widely, seems, consulted and a number of comments have been taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u209	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Romuald Ajchler, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u210	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Left about printing 1775 and the changes it contains. The Left supports the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the extension of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020. The draft amends six laws. The changes relate to the extension of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020. This is in line with the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down transitional provisions for support from the European Agricultural Fund and guarantees for the period 2021 to 2022. The legislative procedure relating to the proposals has not been completed in time to enable Member States and the European Commission to prepare all the elements necessary for the application of the new legal framework and strategic plans of the common agricultural policy. The changes concern, as I said, six laws. Let me give you an example. High Izbo, in the public consultation most of these proposals were supported. Amendments to the Act - Construction law consists in simplifying requirements related to e.g. with the construction of joints. Currently, in the case of joints and tanks with an area of more than 1 000. m2 construction permit is required. After these changes, after the entry into force of the Act, it is sufficient to report the intention to build. Of course, this eliminates unnecessary bureaucracy and accelerates the implementation of programmes for farmers. The bill also covers the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Farmers are allowed to communicate electronically with the agency. This will facilitate the process for farmers themselves and for the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The Commission, considering the draft law, unanimously, as little as ever, adopted the changes proposed by the government. I am also in favour of these changes, acting on behalf of the Left Club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u211	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're talking about a project that's actually prolonging... It adapts our right to EU decisions. Poland's village, as we know, must develop. The inhabitants of Poland still face other problems, which should often be solved long ago. There is still, for example, a problem of communication exclusion, which should often be recalled, or poor access to culture and health care. There are also some difficulties in farming itself. There have also been other attempts to hinder certain activities, and this is worth recalling. In principle, this law is implemented as a consequence of the European Union's actions, as the RDP programme is extended and interferes with six laws. I'm gonna focus on one thing, the one that I think is most interested in farmers right now. That's the question of water tanks. We are here to simplify procedures for the construction of new tanks. Earlier, many farmers had abandoned their construction, even if through this bureaucratic way of obtaining approval for a building that could effectively discourage them. Of course, as a national, I also support the desire to simplify procedures that can be simplified as much as possible in the name of common sense, especially when they are private investments that do not affect actions or property of others. If I have another moment, I would like to remind you that unfortunately farmers also complain about other problems related to drainage ditches, e.g. ask the water administrations to support these procedures. Often it can be mere negligence, which we should simply not allow ourselves to do, and it destroys the harvest. I think that maybe more activity of Polish Waters on this issue and the ministry's actions could help, because I find out that some farmers were simply bounced from the wall. It is also important to clarify the law in the case of drainage ditches, so that it is clear who is really supposed to take care of their condition. At the moment, it's not entirely specific. Of course, this is not the only problem of the Polish village, it is not the only problem of water management in Poland. We still need retention tanks, flood shafts. Otherwise, some neighborhoods in different cities may also suffer. But as for the project itself, as I mentioned at the beginning, we have no major reservations and we will vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u213	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u214	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 in relation to the project contained in the print no. 1775. Ladies and gentlemen! We, of course, support this project because it is definitely going in the right direction and is clearly linked to the European Commission's decision, which adopted a strategic decision to extend the Rural Development Programme by 2 years, as it has so far covered the years 2014 and 2020. This will ensure that the calls under this programme will be carried out by the end of 2022 and will be settled in accordance with the n+3 principle for the following years. The second very important information, a very important decision, is that the budget of the programme has been increased by more than EUR 4.5 billion. More than EUR 3.5 million are public funds due to the introduction of the transitional period and EUR 0.9 million are funds from the European recovery instrument. Of course, we need to adapt our provisions to this change, to the European Commission's decision, and that is absolutely obvious. It is very good that this law also contains new provisions concerning the construction of water reservoirs. It will now be much simpler and will actually take place on the application if it is tanks with an area of more than 1000 m2, but not more than 5 000. m2 and depth up to 3 m. This is also a positive change, especially because of all we know about drought, retention and great needs in this area. Another good change, which we will very much support, concerns the on-line handling of matters in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Currently, applications may be submitted electronically by means of a form appearing on the website, but already the exchange of correspondence and delivery continue to take place in paper form. This amendment introduces the possibility of digital correspondence as long as the initial application is submitted electronically. There are other changes, I have them discharged until 21. Our only question is - and this is precisely something that we will have to check carefully and ask the Minister - the issues of local action groups and how this law changes their functioning and position and possible connection with local governments. So this is our only doubt about this bill, but like I said, that's what we're gonna ask as a question. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u215	Good morning. Does any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House submit to the question? If so, I'm closing the list right now. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis, will be the first to speak. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. There isn't any either. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u216	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you what my esteemed colleague has already mentioned during the presentation of the wheel position. Namely about the situation of local action groups. These are very important organisations from the point of view of the functioning of our small local homelands, thanks to which activities are carried out that take into account our local, regional situation, our history, our strengths. They allow for changes that improve the situation of entrepreneurship, but also citizens. Therefore, it would be very bad if local groups were to be marginalized in some way. Therefore, I ask the Minister whether, in connection with the provisions of this law, there will be marginalisation of local action groups, because, as I say, it would be very harmful. I also have a question as to whether local action groups (the bell) will have a guaranteed opportunity to develop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u217	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u218	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I listened attentively to the way the clubs presented their comments on this bill. I can only thank those people who worked on the bill. It can be seen that all clubs agree that the provisions of the Act were well-designed, of course in agreement with the European Union. First of all, I am pleased that red tape for farmers is decreasing. I think this is a crazy important element. Let's hope all the laws go that way. I have a question for the Minister. Minister, has the draft law been thoroughly consulted with non-governmental organisations and with which (the bell) and why is the entry into force so delayed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u219	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Magdalena Łośko, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u220	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project concerns the extension of the scope of support that farmers can obtain under the Rural Development Programme. The project envisages, among others, facilitate procedures for the construction of water reservoirs in agricultural areas for cultivation. Farmers will be able to build a reservoir without a building permit if it is not more than 5 000. m2 and not deeper than 3 m. This is extremely important from the point of view of areas where drought occurs. The Kujawsko-Pomorskie district I represent has been struggling with this problem for many years. So I ask you to answer the question: How much will the farmers who decide to build such a tank receive financial support? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u221	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u222	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would first like to congratulate and commend this programme because thanks to this programme, the Rural Development Programme, we have made a civilization leap in the Polish countryside. This is an extremely important programme, because it covers many areas. Today, when farmers and Polish agriculture face various problems, it is very important that we discuss this issue. It is also extremely important that we use all the funds that work in this programme. Of course, there are some good solutions here. One of these solutions concerns water reservoirs. Also, the fact that correspondence can be conducted online will speed up the processing of certain things, but will also simplify. And agriculture is very afraid of bureaucracy. It turns out that if there is a program and a fairly well-prepared project, we can discuss it in a substantive way, beyond political divisions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u223	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Romuald Ajchler, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for you. Due to the introduction of the transitional period, the budget has also been increased. This is an enormous amount, because the European Commission has decided to increase this amount in terms of zlotys by a dozen billion zlotys. I wanted to ask how much we as Poland can gain from this change. How much additional money can farmers receive? And, as you predict, what investments will they be earmarked for? And the other thing. I have another doubt about the functioning of local groups. Could the Minister please comment on this? Don't you see the danger in terms of the functioning of these local groups, in the light of the laws that we are adopting at the moment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u225	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u226	Ladies and gentlemen! I may have some information gaps, because the decision to extend the implementation of the RDP or the common agricultural policy is so-called. a small reform - at the time I was chairing the Committee on Agriculture in Parliament - we took up in 2018 and it was already known then that this would apply for another two years of a new perspective, which will apply for the period 2021 and 2027. So the decisions were already made then. Hence my question: Why are these decisions only now being settled? Couldn't it have been done before? It is a decision that some of the funds will still be used according to the old system, because the old system of the common agricultural policy is in force until 2022. That's one thing. Secondly, what is the scale of the use of resources from the 2014-2020 RDPs? Because I understand that he's going, he's being used by the old rule, and he's not going to enter the years 2021 and 2022 in the sense of accounting, and so on. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what I'm talking about. And what part of the funding from the financial perspective 2021 to 2027, from the components of the common agricultural policy goes to the RDP project for the period 2021 to 2022? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u228	Dear Minister, As regards the general support of the whole law, which is so needed because of the changes in European regulations, I have already said, but I would like to ask if the Minister envisages, taking into account this indicator n+3 - this is the amount of 3200 million which is precisely to be used for the period 2021 water and sewage management, including land consolidation. Is it possible to believe that not one euro will be wasted, that we will use every euro related to the extension of the period of expenditure from the RDPs for two years? It is about the second pillar, which is extremely important, modernising the whole Polish village. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, since 2017, unfortunately Polish farmers have been facing drought problems in a systematic manner. Today, the simplification of administrative procedures related to the location and construction of water reservoirs or ponds to be used for agricultural activities is absolutely an option in the context of farmers' needs. I consulted these records with the NSZZ.Solidarity of Individual Farmers, with President Tomasz Firesty from the Opole Voivodeship. Indeed, farmers and from Głubczycki County, and from Namysłowski County definitely indicate that especially in the context of the development of rainwater, this project is very important and good that it appeared. For this, thank you very much to the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u231	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u232	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Coalition Poland Club will support these changes because we believe that maximum spending needs to be accelerated. That's what farmers are waiting for, that's what local governments are waiting for. Here, too, I would ask that the regulations that officials are waiting for come to an end, because there is a question of spending - earlier it was 66,63%. , now you can fund 100% , for example as part of activities related to the water and sewage economy. This has to come quickly, otherwise the officials won't be able to proceed. We need to announce more calls for local governments. On the other hand, these solutions, which are proposed here, will speed up, simplify certain procedures, so it is good that this is happening. There is also a need to speed up the level of spending, because contracting is one thing and spending (the Bell) and billing projects are the other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u233	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The package of amendments to the laws in connection with the extension of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 discussed in November 2021 must itself constitute a certain kind of puriozum, as it seems that the year of the interruption in implementation of the provisions of the package is the result of government neglect over the legal order or deliberate suspension intended to bring a certain advantage to the more definite parties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u235	Thank you, sir. I'm shutting this part down, asking questions. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Richard Bartosik, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u236	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the clubs for supporting this bill, for their substantive work during the committee meeting. I would like to remind you that the amendments proposed in this project aim to facilitate the implementation of the 2014-2020 RDP operations to beneficiaries. As you can see, the adoption and work on this project have been well understood, as it will make it easier for all beneficiaries to raise funds. Thank you for this work and thank all the clubs for supporting the bill. Ladies and gentlemen! As for the questions put before the High House, I will try to answer them. There was a question about local action groups, whether by chance this law would not marginalize them, it would not make them more difficult to act. No, on the contrary, we facilitate the operation of these groups. We update the rules, define new rules and competitive procedures for the selection of multi-fund LSRs while excluding the European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund from the regulation of the RLKS Act. We introduce provisions in the Act allowing the application of the appeal procedure against the assessment of the LSR to a body other than the administrative court at the various stages of the selection of the LSR. Thus, local action groups are given greater opportunities through this law, including appeals. Has the project been consulted? Of course, he was consulted, widely consulted with all organisations, as is the case with every law, and especially with a law as important for farmers and rural areas as this. The question of the amount of the payments. In connection with the provisions in this Act we pay for the construction of joints without permission of 15 thousand. zł. It was mentioned here that the budget was increased by EUR 4.5 million for the transitional period. In the RDP, we allocate 954 million - for specific tasks, i.e. these tasks will be able to be carried out to a wider extent. There was a question about whether you couldn't. were to introduce those provisions earlier. Firstly, the transition period was not I'm so sure. We did not know how the discussions would take place and what decisions would be made at EU level. Secondly, matter is quite complicated, so, as I have already mentioned, there has been a consultation process, and in addition, recruitments have been carried out according to the rules in force so far. So that no one here has lost anything, and today's law makes it easier for the beneficiaries to raise funds. The use of resources is currently at 66%. It went down a little bit. The use decreased, but the resources increased. Therefore, this use at the moment, following an increase in resources, is at 66%. Don't worry about us returning any money. Poland is among the countries that least return funds, we use them almost in the whole range. The next question concerned the risks relating to whether this money will be spent during the period of implementation of this programme. I would like to inform you that it is possible to distribute these funds until 2025, so that there is no concern that this money will be spent. It's a matter of regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, the regulations are amended, adapted to the new law and will be published on time so that beneficiaries can already benefit from EU funds on the basis of this law. Once again, I would like to thank all your Members, the parliamentary clubs, for their substantive work in adopting this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u237	Thank you very much. Would the rapporteur like to speak? I take it you didn't. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The competent committees have submitted reports on the draft law amending the Law - Public Procurement Law and some other laws, on the draft law amending the Law on Doping in Sport, on the draft law amending the Law on Police and on certain other laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Office for Combating Cybercrime. The reports shall be printed in 1803, 1799 and 1796 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm should agree to shorten the time limits referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in discussions on these items on the agenda, he listened to five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on National Defence on the draft law amending the law - Public Procurement Law and certain other laws (prints No. 1778 and 1803). I would very much like to ask Mr Leszek Dobrzyński to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u238	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on National Defence on the draft law amending the law - Public Procurement Law and some other laws, print No 1778. Your Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 24 November 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on National Defence for First Reading. Yesterday... The Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 30 November 2021 request the adoption of the attached draft. Ladies and gentlemen! As I said, the discussion was held yesterday. It was, let's call it, highly energetic. In its course, a large number of votes were rejected in favour of rejecting the project at first reading. Perhaps we should add that the whole project is the result of several years of application of various regulations devoted to military equipment procurement. These experiences indicated the need to amend the rules in order to simplify, implement and adapt them to the requirements of Union law. This law has the effect. According to the applicants, its adoption will result - in deregulation - in speeding up and improving procedures for obtaining military equipment using also the Polish defence industry's potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u239	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Kossakowski, First Member, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u240	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position regarding the draft Print Act No 1778 amending the Public Procurement Law and certain other laws. This draft law is the result of the experience of the Ministry of National Defence in the practical application of the article. 4 point 5b in conjunction with Article. 4c Law of 29 January 2004 - Public procurement law. Analyses resulting from several years of application of the regulations on military equipment procurement may be considered as special equipment designed or adapted for military use and intended for use as weapons, ammunition or war material, obtained for the sole interest of State security, indicate the appropriateness of modifying the provisions in order to simplify, implement and adapt to the requirements of Union law. It is extremely important to note that, under EU law, the content of the Article. EC Treaty and Article 296 EC. 346 TFEU has not changed since 25 May 2006. There was only a transfer of the same content from the editorial unit of the article. 296 TEC to the new editorial unit - Art. 346 TFEU as a result of changes to the Treaty. At the level of EU law, therefore, the substantive continuity of regulation has been maintained despite changes to the Treaties. Since 1 January 2021, public procurement law has entered into force. The analysis of the new law shows that it responds to the long-term expectations of both public entities and economic operators applying for public contracts. More than 14 years of public procurement law, numerous amendments to these provisions as a result of the transposition of EU directives and changes to adapt the law to the needs of changing legal and economic situations have generated the need to prepare a new, comprehensive and coherent public procurement law. The aim of the bill is to introduce new solutions based on the assumption of maximum efficiency and transparency of public procurement, while taking into account the role of public procurement in shaping state policy and the need to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises as well as innovative and modern products and services. It has also become necessary to increase the transparency and consistency of public procurement regulations. Most importantly, the preparation of the new law was not the direct result of the transposition of EU law into the Polish legal system, because these were already incorporated into the law in previous years. The new legislative delegation contained in the article. 15 Public procurement law requires that a much wider range of circumstances be taken into account, including the procedure for assessing the existence of a fundamental interest in State security, the way in which measures to protect that interest are defined, the proportionality of the measures used to ensure the protection of that interest and those competent for the classification of tasks as essential to the security of the State, the way in which the scope of application in the procurement procedure of the law is determined, taking into account the obligation to ensure the correct application of the provision of the article. 346 Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the need to ensure the security of supplies of military equipment throughout the cycle. In these circumstances, the repealed provisions appear as a kind of overregulation resulting from misinterpretation of EU law rules, which seeks to regulate rigidly in national law issues which have not been established at the level of Union law, and which Member States have also not been required to do in EU law. The conclusions resulting from the interpretation of Article should be recognised and respected. 346 on the basis of public procurement, which must be taken into account by the contracting authority irrespective of the repealed provisions of the Public Procurement Law. Further stiffening and limiting the applicability of the Article is not justified. 346 TFEU in public procurement by means of regulation of national law generally in force. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The proposed regulations will have no legal impact, but they can have a positive effect on social, economic and financial impacts. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the bill submitted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u241	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Public procurement law is a regulation that was created as a result of the work of the government and then of Parliament. The work lasted many months. A legal act has been created that has more than 600 articles. Public procurement law is a regulation aimed at reducing corruption and transparent public spending. Public authority should be transparent. Public authority should be transparent and should spend public funds openly. The Minister of National Defence has gigantic means. This is the largest position in the state budget: over PLN 50 billion. Only the Minister of Infrastructure has a comparable budget. But we know that the Minister of National Defence also draws from non-budget funds. We already know about initiatives to buy military equipment from outside the budget. And in an incomprehensible way for us, a draft bill is sent to the Sejm, which is not by the government, which is prepared by the members of the governing party, the Law and Justice. What's it for? It is used to make undisclosed spending so far so as to obscure the picture to cloud the water so as to open the doors of this plague, corruption, wide open. There can't be an agreement. Therefore, the Civic Coalition Club is applying for the rejection of this bill. And now the justification. Yesterday, two committees asked the President of the Public Procurement Office whether there was a position of the Public Procurement Council in relation to this project. We have been informed that it is being prepared in circulation mode, but he did not say it was adopted. There it is. It's approved. I in point 5: Therefore, in the assessment of the Public Procurement Council, the bill presented deserves a negative assessment. A similar assessment was formulated by BAS. We have a statement before the conclusion: the proposed amendments are not contrary to Article. However, 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union or of Directive 2009/81 may lead to non-compliance and may make it difficult to demonstrate the correct withdrawal from the provisions of the Directive and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. That's an obvious conclusion. You want to obscure the picture of public spending, as I said, the giant measures that should serve to increase the defence potential of the Republic. That can't be allowed. Minister! Why didn't this project get the government's position? Why do you, as Deputy Minister of National Defence, agree that you should be denied the power of Members to initiate the adoption by the Council of Ministers of a regulation to determine the conditions (the bell) in which the rules expressed in the Public Procurement Law may be waived? And one more thing, most importantly. Repealed Article 12 in the paragraph. 2 states today in the last sentence: In such a situation, the contracting authority cannot exclude the application of the provisions of Chapters IX and XI. Heading IX is legal protection measures, heading XI is control measures. And you want to spend that money without control, without the possibility of appeal. Scandal! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u243	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u244	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the law - Public Procurement Law and some other laws, print No 1778. First of all, I would like to remind you why we actually have public procurement law in our legal order. I'm going to explain this first on a micro scale, and then I'm going to go to a macro scale. In every company, the owner wants the company's employees to manage the assets he has entrusted to them. The purchasing departments in companies play a particular role because employees make decisions that affect the finances of the company and the quality of the goods and services produced. In extreme cases, irresponsible purchasing department could lead to bankruptcy of the company. Therefore, the owners and directors of companies introduce purchasing procedures so that the whole process is transparent and meets the quality and financial requirements. On a macro scale, it looks exactly the same. State units, public institutions, state companies make many purchases, manage the huge wealth that belongs to us, to citizens and to citizens. Shopping money comes from our taxes. We are the owners of this property and we want to be sure that public money will be spent transparently and will contribute to a good quality of public services. We're going to look at what's in the bill now. Applicants, i.e. a group of members of the Law and Justice, wish to simplify purchasing procedures for the production or trade of arms, ammunition or war material, if required by the fundamental interests of state security. The applicants want to delete the paragraph which currently states that in the case of such contracts the contracting authority may apply the provisions of the Law - Public procurement law to the extent specified in the assessment of the existence of the basic interests of State security. This is optional. Until now, the contracting authority could apply the provisions of the Act - Public Procurement Law, but did not have to. The key to the exemption was to assess the existence of a fundamental interest in State security. Art. The 15th Act states that the Council of Ministers shall, by means of a regulation on a proposal from the Minister for National Defence and the Minister for Home Affairs, in agreement with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Economic Affairs, determine the procedure for dealing with the assessment of the existence of the essential security interests of the State, the manner in which measures ensuring the protection of that interest are defined, the proportionality of the measures used to ensure the protection of that interest and the entity competent for the qualification of tasks as essential to the security interests of the State, and the way in which the scope of the procurement procedure is determined. From the taxpayer's point of view, this provision is as appropriate as possible. It makes purchases that are not strategically important from the point of view of state security subject to greater social control. So what are the arguments of the project applicants? The explanatory memorandum of the law states that the main reason is the security of the state. For example, the eastern border and the need for rapid response were established. The full agreement is that it is necessary to react quickly and to ensure the security of the state, only that this argument has nothing to do with the draft law, because the present law already gives such an opportunity. In crisis situations, shopping can be simplified, only the operational need needs need to be justified. The second argument of the project applicants concerned the simplification of purchasing procedures. We read in the explanatory memorandum that this is due to the experience of the defence department, which claims that procedures are overly formalised. But the procedure is just to follow them. The procedures are designed to protect the public interest and not the interests of the contracting authority. In conclusion, I would like to say that this bill is a gateway to abuse. This does not mean that the contracting authority will always use this gate, but some of the unfair contracting authorities, as well as lobbyists, will open it to the public. I don't trust that power. I did not trust Minister Antoni Macierewicz or his associate Misiewicz, I do not trust Minister Błaszczak or Minister Kamiński (Dzwonek), so how can I have confidence in the intention of this bill? The Left will vote against this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u245	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u246	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, the Coalition of Poland, I would like to say that we will not support this law either. The Public Procurement Act came into force for this purpose and has been worked so long to cut corruption, to create a clear, transparent and clear use of public funds. Each authority, each institution has it to itself, that if there is an opportunity to use funds contrary to the rules, contrary to the intention, these temptations can be very large, as shown by many examples, every day we deal with it. This is why precise records have been created to maximise public spending. Today, when there are the largest funds to be spent, because these are not thousands or millions, only tens of billions of zlotys, we are trying to simplify this bill to the maximum, throw away the records that are supposed to give full control. I would like to say that in the municipal office, where tens, hundreds of thousands of PLN are spent on road construction or some kind of renovation, it is strictly observed, these procedures are very carefully conducted, and in this case, when we are going to buy hundreds of tanks, we are going to get rid of these procedures. It's unclear to me why the government doesn't support these solutions, and I think everyone has a red light. Why is the government silent? Why doesn't the government want to express their position? There's something about it, and it's suspicious. Ladies and gentlemen, you expect us to support the bill, and you don't support it yourself. Because the government doesn't support her. There's a group of Members who say it's dangerous on the eastern border, so we need to move fast. Do something. And you're running an emergency bill. After all, it is a serious law, it is an important law on an important issue, but above all on spending a serious part of the state budget, as well as non-budget resources, as indicated here. Therefore, if the government does not support this, the Polish People's Party will not support it either. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u247	Thank you, sir. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u248	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! One of the basic tasks, and recently the primary task of the state, is to maintain the security and integrity of our borders, defending us against external aggression, defending us from what can affect the security, comfort of life of Poles. And here every time there is a discussion about how the European Union will influence our security, how NATO will influence our security, how our neighbours will help us. However, it is absolutely crucial that we Poles have a strong army, a strong, prepared society, an armed society, a society that can handle weapons that can defend ourselves, which has a strong army, a strong Territorial Defence Army, well-armed, professionally armed, ready at any moment. To do this, it is essential that there is full freedom in terms of the equipment of this army, the ability to use this equipment, the ability to react quickly. Now we have this situation at the Polish-Belarusian border, where we simply need to react quickly. If there is a law that, however deregulates, resolves the current problems that are related to bureaucracy, if there is a law that is to simplify procedures, then it is necessary to support such a law and to strive for the real functioning of our army and our defence activities to be easier. I think it is obvious especially now that we have a conflict on the Polish-Belarusian border. Here it was necessary to react quickly and the Confederation supported the government in this regard. And now there is a question of what we have always talked about: the absolute basis will always be the professionalization of our troops, strengthening our troops, providing better equipment for our troops. This is one of the laws that can help in this regard, so that I think that such a law should simply be supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u249	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u250	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the draft law amending the law - Public Procurement Law and some other laws, after presentation of the report of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft proposed by the Group of Members seeks to exclude the application of the Public Procurement Law for the purpose of obtaining military equipment in the form in which it currently exists. Let me remind you that this legal situation, in particular the provision of the article. 12 in the paragraph. 2 provides, inter alia, that if the interests of state security so require, the provisions of the Act may not apply. However, on the basis of Article. 15 of the same law The Council of Ministers, by means of a regulation, sets out, inter alia, the procedure for assessing the existence of a basic State security interest. This means that, on the one hand, the rules allow for some flexibility that is needed in the field of military procurement, but on the other hand, they need real analysis. This is the key: the contract fulfils the conditions of the existence of a basic State security interest and should therefore be implemented without application of the Public Procurement Law. This is the procedure which guarantees a minimum of reliable analysis of whether security funds are spent on a deliberate basis, not e.g. embezzled under the pretence of security, it is very disturbing to the group of Members of the Law and Justice who have submitted this project. It should also be noted that public procurement law is, after all, the result of the work of the PiS government, and the project itself eliminating this censorship of integrity and integrity in the proceedings concerning military equipment, as is apparent from the information received during yesterday's committee, was the subject of the government's work, but was not adopted by the Council of Ministers. What does it mean to accept this project? This is, I think, very important. The first and most important effect of the project may be to make purchases of military equipment pointless. This will, of course, constitute a very serious threat to state security, as relatively limited financial resources will simply be wasted. I think that no one who cares about the safety of Poland can agree to this. This alone, ladies and gentlemen, is enough to request the rejection of this harmful project for our country. These reasons, of course. There's more, even if it's a question of the situation of our arms industry. We have seen orders presented by the government, which were across the interests of our country, which caused, or would cause, the collapse of certain plants in the arms industry. You can't let that happen. These reasons, of course. There's more, but due to the limited time (the bell) I can't name them all. However, the Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050, due to all these security threats, makes a request to reject this harmful project at second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u251	Thank you, sir. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to present themselves to the question? If not, I'm closing the list right now. I'm assigning one minute to ask a question. The first Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. You're welcome. Are you an MP? Here you go, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u252	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish government announced the construction of a wall on the eastern border. Then it was announced that the cost of this wall would be PLN 1.6 billion. Then we found out that the contractor was already known. We do not know whether the construction has begun, because the government threatened to stop even journalists from being within the border. After all, it is time to make appropriate amendments to the existing law, which is to legalise the steps already taken. Abstracting from the need to defend our borders, shouldn't the order of action in the state of law be reversed? I have a question to the Minister: Are the records of this project supposed to mean that, after the expansion of the army, according to Mr Kaczyński's plans, the expenditure of our country's budget will be spent outside any control, according to the will of only the Minister of National Defence? I would very kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u253	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u254	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have two questions. The first concerns the work to be carried out by the government on a similar bill, this is the information we received at the committee meeting yesterday. I would ask you very much to explain why the government did not accept such a project, even though it was supposed to be procedated. This project has been notified as a parliamentary project. Why didn't the government accept him and send him to the High House? The second question directly concerns the fundamental interests of state security. Surely the fundamental interest of our state's security requires that we have arms plants that are capable of producing at least part of the army's production. This was certainly the subject of various assessments (The Bell), why the State leads to the collapse of the Gliwice Bumar Slabęda plants, which operate in an important area, and all of your actions lead to the mere elimination of these plants. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u255	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u256	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the current legal order, in an emergency situation, in an urgent operational need, public procurement procedures may be waived. Why do law designers want to exclude procurement procedures for defence contracts on the pretext of increasing the efficiency of arms procurement? In the short term, we are looking at three laws that deprive the authorities, the institutions set up for this purpose, of control of their defence spending. And so we have a law repealing tender procedures, a law on defence of the homeland, which refers to the Armed Forces Support Fund, which will have billions of zlotys out of control, a law on the construction of a wall, under which 1,600 million zlotys can be spent, excluding tender procedures of the Construction Law, Water Law, Environmental Law. Question: "Isn't the introduction of these laws a hybrid leap (The Bell) to public tens of billions of zlotys?" Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Very neat.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u257	Thank you, sir. Please, Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u258	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill we are discussing today was considered by the applicant's and applicant's representative yesterday to be extremely important from the point of view of state security as deregulation. I ask you, if it is so important, then why is there only one of the nearly 50 brave Members sitting here in the Chamber? If there's such an important project... I also ask the Minister: Minister, since this is such an important project - I asked this yesterday at the committee meeting, you did not give me information - based on your experience with the Ministry of National Defence, why didn't you ask for this project? Why aren't you the authors of this project? Why isn't it a government project? What are you doing in this ministry if it's so important for the sake of state security? Or isn't that why it's not a government project to avoid inter-ministerial consultations, public consultations, to push it through and to do business? State security, ladies and gentlemen (the bell), is not just defence security. This is also the protection of the country against corruption mechanisms. And this is definitely a corruption mechanism, and you are the authors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u259	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The name of the law is very simple and inconclusive: a draft law amending the law - Public Procurement Law and some other laws. Doubts are evoking details. The project concerns the acceleration and improvement of procedures for obtaining military equipment using the potential of the Polish defence industry, excluding public procurement. And here's the dog, ladies and gentlemen, buried. In a normal, stable country, it wouldn't be a problem, but it shouldn't happen in our situation. Taught by the government, we don't trust, we don't believe it's going to be a rule of law. Question: "What amount will be allocated to the arms budget?" And additionally: How much money was spent on arms in the years 2018 to 202021? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u261	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u262	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr Dziambor was dropped by aliens to the High House and argued with an argument that did not fall during this debate. [[Applause]] I was from the beginning, and you weren't. It is worth learning from this experience. And here's the conclusion: Law and Justice wants to spend public funds on an expansive scale, over 50 billion, without control, without the possibility of recourse. Where Article 1 is deleted. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, which provides that these remedies... their control is repealed, and in the Constitution is the rule of law which means that the authorities can only apply such measures as are provided for by law. So what's this check going to be like? You're welcome, Minister, to respond in writing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's going to be a very difficult task. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u263	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear, Dear, Anti-State Civil Platform! Then when Law and Justice and Solidarna Poland defend the Polish and Belarusian border, you always vote against. When we want to buy tanks, weapons for the Polish army, because you do not notice that Putin and Lukashenka are armed and tanks stand near the Polish border, you are always against. [[Voice from the room: Don't scare those tanks.]] You're still teaching us about corruption. And you have a lot of people in your ranks who are accused of corruption. We have successfully fought corruption for the last six years. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Today, in a situation of threat to the security of the state, this law must therefore be supported. Mr. Cezary Grabarczyk, please don't really play Donald Tusk and stand behind the Polish uniform for once. It's a shame what you said here. And it is a shame, Madam Member, who suggested that the Polish state is not a normal state. You always stand against Poland, you always stand against security - this is a great shame. I have confidence in Minister Mariusz Błaszczak, you do not have that trust. And the fact that you're saying this in this podium is a disgrace to you. [[Don't be surprised.]] This is your disgrace. We are defending Poland today and really this is not the right situation for party games. Please defend (Bingle) the security of Poland. [[Voice from the hall: Where did the money go for the armor?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u265	Mr President, Poland is not yet a PiS. Poland are people from the Platform, from PiS, from PSL and from various other parties. We all have the right to feel patriotic, so please don't lecture us like that. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u266	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Public procurement law was for this, and it is for money to be spent transparently and honestly - public money. You in your name bring law and justice, but every day you trample this name Law and Justice. Why don't you want this bill to continue to function in its present state? What? You want the president of NIK Banas to discover your scams again? [[Applause]] Is that what you want? What money do you want to spend in two years? What kind of public funds do you want to commit, Minister? What are you afraid of? Public money should be issued transparently, under public control. [[Applause]] [[You are Putin's voice in the Polish Seym.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u267	Please, Mr Czesław Mroczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law seeks to remove public procurement from the State's defence area. It is important to be clear: without public procurement there is no fair state. Without public procurement, without competitive proceedings there is no good price and there is no good quality in terms of equipment obtained for the Polish army. We've been finding out about this for six years now. Although the law required the use of public procurement procedures, this competitive procedure, these governments violated this principle. [[Applause]] Right now, they want breaking the rules to be the norm, legal. Let me remind you that Minister Macierewicz, when he bought planes for the carriage of state authorities, acted against the rules and did not organize a tender. It was examined by the National Board of Appeal, which stated that Minister Macierewicz, when buying this equipment, was aware that there were eight suppliers on the market (The Bell) and he chose one. Ladies and gentlemen, without tenders, you will suffer damage. Who's gonna get it? Friends of the rabbit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u269	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Applicants' Members! Mr. Requestor! Change the title of the bill so it's not public procurement law, it's public procurement law. Now that this bill is outlawed, it's out of control 50 billion zlotys... [[He's turning it off.]] ...because that's the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, that's what you should call it. This law is a mockery of the transparency and transparency of public spending. It's an eldorado for arms dealers, ventilators and other smart guys who will supply the Polish Army. [[Applause]] You are abolishing public procurement on the pretext of deformising procedures, as well as the interests of the state. I think you're mistaken about the public procurement procedure and the state's interest in your own political interests. You hide yourself from EU procedures and orders from domestic companies. I ask you, sir, when are you going to make public contracts (the bell), orders from family-run battle helicopters companies from PZL-Świdnik, which you promised six years ago. Before each election you promise to order military helicopters from PZL-Świdnik. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, allows corruption and public money to be brought out. We're not authorized to do that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u271	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u272	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The spending of public money is subject to special control because it is not government money or any political party. That's what I'm talking about. For this reason, the Public Procurement Law was established so that there would be no corruption, so that the expenditure would be transparent. You guys are pulling out of this thing today, but this isn't the first time. In the COVID laws, you put in place a lot of solutions so that there would be no control over public finances, no control over your expenses. You're afraid of every control. Don't be afraid of control. Let the Poles control their money so that it is not that you spend it as you wish. And the last examples that were regarding the purchase of ventilators. There were also beautiful words: do not be afraid, it will be transparent. Turns out you spent your money off the budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Also when it comes to masks. There are a lot of cases like this. I want you to think about whether this bill is corrupt or not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since there are already regulations in the Polish legal system that allow the Ministry of National Defence to make purchases outside tenders when specific weapons or materials are involved. So the question arises, why this bill. If he's so important, why isn't he government? High Izbo! This is the next session of the Sejm, which deals with draft laws that exclude the application of public procurement law. If you are disturbed by the control, transparency and clarity of public spending and you are going this way, then perhaps you will simply repeal the Public Procurement Act and then it will be easier. Why should we meet here and discuss the exclusion of these provisions from specific laws? This is not a step in the right direction, this is not the law that makes us the kind of democracy that Poles would have dreamed of. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u275	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you so much for adding me to your list of questions. I wasn't planning on asking a question, but the atmosphere of this debate has mobilized me to do it. Good defence policy for each country is a policy separated from the current political dispute, it is a policy pursued in consensus, without emotion, without throwing ideas from wall to wall. Minister! I would like to ask the question: What programmes have been implemented and implemented by the Polish army in the last 6 years? What was the amount? What percentage of the amount that the state budget spends every year on modernising the army was spent on money? I think that this is important, because the Polish society needs to control efficiency, to check those hard-developed in Poland more than 2% GDP (the bell) allocated to the army. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u277	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence of Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u278	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! To be honest, it's been a long time since I've heard as much falsehood and hypocrisy in the Seym as in this discussion that's been going on for an hour. It is a pity that the vast majority of all those who accused the Minister of National Defence with insults and accusations and poured buckets of slop on his head have left this room. There were only five Members left who asked questions and were raised So many important lines. That's too bad. Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! I would like to draw attention to the key issue and lie to those statements. I understand there's media, there's television, there's probably everyone who wants to exist, but there's nothing to eat a lie on this occasion. This law does not exempt the Minister of Defence from the execution of contracts under the Public Procurement Law. Once again, I categorically stress this: she does not exempt the Minister of Defence from the application of the law - Public Procurement Law. I explained yesterday at the joint committee meeting that nearly 80% contracts carried out by the Minister of National Defence from the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, this multi-billion-dollar budget, are implemented on the basis of the law - Public Procurement Law. I'm pointing it out again. This will continue, nothing changes in this area... [[Then what's the bill for?]] ...but there are situations where, also because of the fundamental interest of state security, it is necessary to apply the possibility of executing an order without the law - Public procurement law, because what is most important for the Polish army... Unless you want to present yourselves as a total pro-Russian or pro-Chinese opposition... [[Excuse me.]] ...and you would like the most important equipment for the Polish army to be bought based on the wide possibilities of companies with Russian capital, with Chinese capital, which will penetrate, penetrate or attempt to penetrate the Polish market, and so that they provide equipment for the Polish army. But we absolutely do not agree to this, Madam, whether you like it or not. We will not let Russian capital, Chinese capital and any other suspicious capital into the defence industry to supply equipment for the Polish army, [[Applause]] Because it's effective, and it's over whether you like it or not. [[And that's what you could have put in the regulation.]] [[You're doing it, Minister.]] Dear Pro-Russian opposition! Take it easy. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Marshal, please point out to the Minister that he insults Members.]] But your screaming doesn't impress me, really. [[They do, they do.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Take the pill, sit down for a moment, listen to me. Really, you're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. I ask the Minister to remain calm. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am barbecued enough by the states in the Committee on National Defence, in other places here, in the Seym - very irresponsible terms, very irresponsible and inappropriate words. Have a thick skin. You're in the Seym, you need to get used to it, sorry. High Izbo! I'll say it again. Too bad there's no former Deputy Minister of National Defense here. I have the overwhelming impression that, for two years in the Ministry of National Defence, especially in 2012, 2013, 2014, Mr Darkzek took a nap or someone else made decisions in his vertical direction. To date, no one has released the Minister of National Defence from the application of the two key decisions of the Minister: Decision No 92/MON of 21 March 2014. - as a living Law and Justice then did not rule - as well as Decision No 367/MON of 2015, from a time when Law and Justice had not yet ruled, because these are key decisions that regulate matters concerning the fundamental interests of state security and the execution of orders. These are key decisions that are being applied today, although they are taken by the predecessors. Do you have any doubts about this? How about some disapproval screams? Maybe some impatience? Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! To sum up, this law does not exempt us from the application of the law - Public Procurement Law. In emergency situations, the possibility of applying art is important for the safety of Poland. 346 Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Such opportunities were under the rule of the Civic Platform and such opportunities are under the rule of law and justice. But it can't be like this when there's an urgent need to carry out orders for the Polish army... Maybe an example of a little bit of another area: building a temporary barrier on the border and buying a concert, which is at the border today, on a stretch of almost 190 km. Can you imagine that such an order would be carried out under the law - Public Procurement Law and that for six months we would order devices to secure the Polish border? The immigrants would have passed, gone, and we would have forgotten that they were if you had acted this way. So I ask for a little recollection and a minimum of confidence in the Polish government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u279	The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the Government bill amending the Act on combating doping in sport (prints 1788 and 1799). I would very much like to ask Mr Kazimierz Moskal to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u280	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, I am pleased to present a report on the government draft law amending the act on combating doping in sport, print no. 1788. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism for first reading on 26 November 2021. The bill results from the need to adapt Polish legal standards governing the functioning of the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory, PLAD, to the international standard for laboratories, ISL 2021, as amended by the World Anti-Doping Agency in September 2020. There are currently no national provisions necessary for the correct application of the ISL 2021 from 1 January 2022. The new wording of the standard assumes that an anti-doping laboratory accredited by WADA cannot be managed by a national anti-doping agency, a sports organisation, a Ministry responsible in the country for sport, subject to them or be part of them. Accredited by WAD PLAD is a state legal person and operates under the law. According to Art. Article 47a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) It is therefore necessary to amend the Minister currently supervising the laboratory and the provisions resulting from the exercise of assigned supervision. In addition, the draft law adjusts the period for which the powers of anti-doping controllers are granted. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, after first reading and considering this project at its meeting on 30 November 2021, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u281	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Matuszewski, First Member, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u282	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the act on combating doping in sport, print no. 1788. What is the purpose of this project? The aim is to adapt Polish rules on combating doping in sport to international standards. There is a need to change because the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory accredited by WADA cannot be managed by a national anti-doping agency, a sports organisation, a Ministry responsible in the country for sport, subordinate to them or be part of them. The draft law proposes that the various aspects of supervision be the responsibility of the Minister of Health. At its meeting of 30 November this year. The Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism carried out its first reading, considered the above draft law. In the course of the examination of the draft law, amendments were tabled which were supported by the government. I kindly inform the High House that the above. The draft law raises no objections and by adapting Polish regulations to international standards will provide better conditions for the fight against doping in sport. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I recommend the adoption of a draft law, which is contained in the report, print No 1799. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u283	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u284	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform to present the position of the club in relation to the amendment of the act on combating doping in sport. The amendment of the Act follows the amendment of the international standard for laboratories adopted in September 2020 by the World Anti-Doping Agency, WADA. According to this standard, the Polish rules should be adapted to the changes that are taking place. The project adapts the rules in force in Poland to the standards adopted by the international standard for laboratories, because according to the standard accredited by WADA an anti-doping laboratory cannot be managed by a national anti-doping agency, a sports organisation, a Ministry responsible for sport or another government body responsible for sport, subject to them or be part of them. Therefore, as part of the bill's novel, there is a change of entity which will supervise the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory. According to the WADA standard, national accredited anti-doping laboratories are to be independent and States are required to ensure this independence by 1 January 2022. The new subject will be the Ministry of Health. This supervision has so far been carried out by the Ministry of Physical Culture, Tourism and Sport, the Ministry of National Heritage, and currently by the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. High Izbo! Sports are primarily fair play activities, they are pure actions. The novel is going in the right direction. Doping is a great evil in sport. We should all work together to ensure that sport is clean. We all want to believe that the fight against doping in Polish sport is a priority of the government, not just the declarations made. Therefore, I will ask: Why was the amendment only made to the Sejm after 14 months? After all, the World Anti-Doping Agency's rules have been in force since 20 September 2020? The legislators at the committee meeting yesterday questioned this deadline, justifying that for government projects it should be 30 plus 21, or 51 days. The new rules are due to apply from 1 January, it is a short period of time. Why did the Ministry wait so long to introduce them? At the moment, the threat that we will not be able to adapt to the deadlines required by WADA. After all, the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory, which since 2004 has been accredited by the World Anti-Doping Agency, also supports the Team for the Management of the Player's Passport. Since 1 January 2020, the former Minister of Sport Witold Bianka has been the head of the WADA and Anna Krupka has been a member of the Council of the World Anti-Doping Agency Foundation. We are surprised, High Izbo, that since failure to meet this deadline may result in the withdrawal of the accreditation for our laboratory by WADA or long-term suspension until appropriate solutions are introduced... There are only 32 laboratories all over the world with such accreditation. Our laboratory operates internationally, not only in Poland. They are institutions cooperating with many entities, hospitals, police and prosecutors and carrying out toxicological services for them. Another important change is to adjust the period for which specific powers will be given to anti-doping controllers. According to the current standard, they will be broadcast for 2 years instead of the currently adopted 3 years. During the meeting of the Sports Committee, there was talk of inappropriate legislation proposed by the government party. The problem has been reported by the legislators again. Will the reviewer's certificates, which are six months old, 1,5 years old, 2,5 years old, granted by the Director of the Agency before the date of entry into force of the proposed law remain valid? What about the certificates that will be 2.5 years old at the time of the Act's entry into force? Dear rulers! You didn't think about people, you didn't think about controllers. A man has been less important to you again. Why didn't you create the transitional provisions immediately to ensure the continuity of the law? High Izbo! Unfortunately, the act on combating doping in sport still does not regulate many important, important issues raised by us. After all, taking doping is cheating, it's acting against your own body and against it and even to the detriment of it. For the results achieved, athletes receive financial gratuities, prizes, scholarships, participate in central camps, in trainings. Cost of preparing the player e.g. to the games is hundreds of thousands of zlotys, so I will ask: If any player has received a prize, a scholarship, received a central training and it turns out that he has applied illegal measures Do the rulers plan to tighten up (the bell) rules against doping in sport and introduce precepts? Should there be other restrictions? Doping is a huge rival sport. For years we have openly opposed his presence in sport in every form. It is unimaginable and unacceptable for us to use supporting substances, which thus takes away the truth when it comes to pure sport. This is a serious problem because sport should be fair, should be clean and clear. The Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club will support this bill. We are counting on all the errors that may arise from the rapid preparation of the amendment... that the amendments tabled will be voted on. I would like to express our approval for this amendment. Poland, as one of the European countries, should adapt to global regulations. In our club we always insist that sport is fair, so we will support all regulations that can positively improve the quality of sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u285	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Bogusław Wontor, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left, I would like to present the position of our club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the act on combating doping in sport, prints 1788 and 1799. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law aims to bring Polish law into line with the rules of the international standard for laboratories, which in 2020 was amended by the World Anti-Doping Agency. Failure to adopt this amendment may lead to the withdrawal of the accreditation of WADA to the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory and the cessation of its activities. High Seym! The draft law amends the PLAD supervisor and introduces appropriate resulting changes. According to current standards, anti-doping laboratories cannot be managed by the National Anti-Doping Agency or the Ministry of Sport or their subordinates. We now have such solutions that the laboratory is supervised by the Minister responsible for physical culture. Following the adoption of an amendment to the Act, the law in this area will be consistent with international law. Mrs. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, When I consulted this project with the sports community and doping people, I obtained information about the need for quick implementation of the solutions contained in the draft law. The adoption of this project is not controversial in the environment. Moreover, it is a favourable law. High Seym! According to the guidelines, these changes should be carried out by 1 January 2022, as the government knew, among others. from an audit carried out at the end of 2020, which drew attention to the removal of discrepancies. So why do we have government action on the so-called. Last minute? Questions arise as to whether this project could not be prepared, e.g. A year ago. If not, why not? Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! As I have presented, Members and Members of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left will support the Government's bill on combating doping in sport, prints 1788 and 1799. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u287	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Ireneusz Raś, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u288	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Koalicja Polska Club, I wanted to present my position on the report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, print no. 1799, which concerns the draft law amending the act on combating doping in sport. My previous speakers described the subject of the committee's work, the subject of the bill's amendment. She doesn't raise our doubts, she's the implementation of the changes that the World Anti-Doping Agency has established. It simply needs to be adopted so that our athletes can benefit from the institution built by us, which is the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory, which must fulfil certain certificates under the WADA regulations. And such rules, as was said here in December, were introduced by the World Anti-Doping Agency in September 2020. This biggest change - it is about supervision, the change of supervision of the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory, from the minister responsible for sport it is to go into other hands. The Minister, I think it is right whether the government has stated that the best supervising laboratory will be the minister responsible for health. There's no doubt about it. The mannequin is the time we work. We will probably not be able to implement this within the deadline set by WADA until 1 January 2022, but from what we know - I learned on behalf of my environment, the parliamentary club - it will not affect the start of our athletes in the upcoming important event for Polish sport, i.e. the Winter Olympic Games in Beijing, because WADA has the opportunity to extend this deadline and probably such an extension will be applied if the president does not sign before 1 January 2022 the changes we are talking about. Therefore, on behalf of the Polish Coalition, I say that we will vote in full in favour of the changes proposed by the government, but at the same time making proposals to the government to submit such proposals on time and not at the last minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u289	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u290	Another completely unnecessary regulation. Sport is simply a field of entertainment based on contractual principles, established by various sports associations, so-called. Polish associations of something or international associations of something, and these associations establish and should establish any rules that apply in this sport, and there is no reason for you to get involved in this, so that you enforce these rules so that you can clarify them in any way so that you involve the taxpayer's money in their enforcement. Just like there's no reason for you to ban card-searching during the game of Macau. At the very least, if others think that it's not allowed to look at cards, they won't play with someone like that and exclude them from their environment. And so here, if anybody cheats, they're just gonna be excluded. It's simply ruled out, and there's no reason for you to interfere in such a case. Unfortunately, there is such a way of reasoning here - also already presented by my previous speakers - that, as we pay for it, we require it. Unfortunately, it's a trap. When you start financing sports, you also feel entitled to interfere in the internal affairs of this sport. The fact that this is absolutely unnecessary convinces us, for example, of the United States. Sports aren't funded there, and I'm gonna say they're doing even better than we are. [[It's funded.]] I think... NBA is just a stock exchange company. Everyone understands that this is just the entertainment industry, and they don't want to finance it. There's no reason for us to... [[It's funded everywhere, and so are the United States.]] That's not true, that's not true. These Polish relationships are wands for unionists mainly. Often these are disciplines that no one sees, which nobody really follows. Some Polish gymnastics relationships, where he runs for a couple of people in the entire championship, and millions of zlotys go for it. Such a gymnastics center is a few dozen million plus voivodships that get more money. And all this, of course, at the expense of a taxpayer, who may not necessarily want such entertainment, because it is only entertainment that should be kept for the money of the people concerned. My question at the end: How many times has the resort supervision been reorganized? I would ask for a written reply with a detailed calculation of how many times the control of the sport passed from successive resorts to others, how many times the name changed, the scope of this ministry, the scope of this check - from 1989 to today - and why. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u291	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Wojciech Maksymowicz, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u292	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Sorry, I had to beat the obstacle course. I think, of course, you can talk about the philosophy of the state device and it's always worth it, but at this point we have quite a simple task. And it's not even a matter of... According to previous relationships it was done so that it was the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory, it was actually financed by the government. However, the rules have changed with regard to the standard concerning above all the independence of laboratories and the certainty that this entertainment will not be an entertainment that only brings satisfaction for a moment, such as. All those competitions that we know are pre-set. Doping certainly destroys the principle of sport. Sports is a little more than that. Sports in the tradition of our culture, Greek in total, Mediterranean, is a little more than just pure entertainment itself. That's why it has to be done. According to these new rules, WADA presents such a necessity, we have to do it. In view of this necessity, it is not possible to not support the project. I only hope that the cost of the laboratory's maintenance will be covered by additional funds transferred to the Ministry of Health, not from the current budget, after all modest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u293	Thank you very much, sir. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to address the question? Do it now. I'm closing the list right now. The first question you ask is Rafał Adamczyk, the Left. There's no envoy. [[On the committee, on the committee.]] Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project addresses a very important social problem. Doping in modern sport is a phenomenon that must be combated by all means, both because of the integrity of sports competition and because of the serious health damage caused by its use. Of course, no one has any doubts about that. Why, then, I wanted to ask a question: during the period of the highest inflation for 20 years, funds for the fight against this harmful phenomenon have been cut in such a drastic way? In 2022, the measures are reduced, and thus relatively reduced by an increase in prices, by almost PLN 4 million. For 2025, we already have an amount less than 5 million. This approach will lead to the fact that anti-doping control will be dedicated exclusively to the highest level professions and will leave itself entirely free to activists, athletes and professions at lower levels of competition (the bell). I'd like a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u296	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill aims to adapt the Polish anti-doping system to the requirements of international standards, and this is of course a very good solution. It is worth noting that these international standards for laboratories were amended as early as September 2020 and that the international standard for research and investigation has been in force since 1 January 2021. It is therefore clear that changes are made after the deadline or at the last moment. I think we are all aware that in extreme cases such conduct could mean that Polish athletes could have a difficult opportunity to participate in various kinds of international competitions. I wanted to ask the Ministry why it delayed almost the last minute to present these solutions, since it was known for a long time that they had to be implemented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u297	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left. There's no envoy. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. There isn't any either. Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u298	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Why are we so late in this bill that doesn't cause any controversy and is needed? The incomprehensible thing is that you've waited 14 months to finally take care of this bill, and now in some crazy way, we're going over it again. I also have a question: If WADA orders the independence of anti-doping laboratories, why will we still have a government anti-doping laboratory in Poland? Under the Minister of Sport, he will be put under the authority of the Minister of Health. Therefore, whether the Minister of Sport or the Minister of Health - it does not matter, it will still be supervision by the Minister. In other countries, such laboratories are run either by universities or by hospitals or by other bodies or by NGOs. Why didn't you decide to hand it over to an independent (Bingle) individual? We also have... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]] Thank you, Member. ... The Central Centre of Sports Medicine, which could also deal with this field. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u299	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The appointment of Minister Witold Bańka, who by decision of Prime Minister Beata Szydło became Minister of Sport in 2015, as President of the World Anti-Doping Agency, is an excellent example of how the Polish state can act effectively in an international forum because this function is the highest function of representative of Poland in all sports organisations in history. From this point on, I would also like to thank and congratulate Mr Witold Banka's co-workers, Minister Annie Krupce, who is a representative of the entire European Union on the board of the World Anti-Doping Federation. Sports must be clean and it is good that today Poles give the highest standards to the world's fight against doping. A great respect for Minister Bianca - President WADA and Anna Krupka. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u301	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomaszewski, not previously noticed by your marshal. Please, come to the question. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Fighting doping is a priority for the government, but I think it's also a priority for Parliament. Pure sport means above all a good promotion of the active lifestyle of our masters, especially among young people. This law is also important because it adapts the rules to the rules of the WADA, but also introduces certain solutions that must enter into force from 1 January 2022. Already in September, a year ago, WADA carried out an audit and then there were recommendations. As it turns out, according to the Minister, who informed this at the committee meeting, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Sport, previously the national heritage and culture, could not agree on who would be the leading body in this area, and that is why these arrangements lasted for more than a year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask whether all the solutions that are necessary to ensure that these rules function in the right way are already agreed between ministers today and whether there will be no formal problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u303	Thank you, sir. Mr Bogusław Wontor, Club Left. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My previous speakers asked this question, but the point is that it should sound all the time in this Chamber, so I will repeat it: Why did we have to wait so long for the amendment of this law, since it was known that these provisions should be amended by January 1, 2022? I think the answer will be given to us in a moment from the speaker, because so many of my previous speakers asked this question too. I will also ask such an additional question due to the introduction of one of the previous speakers: Is there a country in the world where sport would not be financed by public funds at all? I don't know this country. My next question is this: Is it true that at many renowned universities, especially American universities, which were referred to as... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Scholarship system.]] Thank you. ...there are plates posted on one side of the Nobel Prize winners, and on the other hand, the Olympics who graduated from the university? This shows the importance of sports there. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u305	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u306	Mrs. Marshal, I wish you health. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, sports are fair play. Sports should be clean, sport should be transparent and undoubtedly the biggest rival of sport is cheering. Doping, especially used by young athletes, unfortunately causes sometimes amazing changes throughout the body, which later very difficult to undo. That is why I am glad that today we are debating this project, because it is de facto the adaptation of Polish law to international law. It would be hard to imagine today, ladies and gentlemen, what the Olympic Games would have looked like if it hadn't been for the fight against doping. That's where the machines would be fighting today. We know that the authorities of some countries have even participated in this. So it is our duty, all of us, to fight for the purity of sport, and undoubtedly the fight against doping is conducive to this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u307	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u308	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2018 the Supreme Audit Chamber carried out an audit related to combating doping in Polish sport. The results of the audit indicate the need for appropriate action by the Ministry of Sport, the Polish Anti-Doping Agency and Polish sports unions, among others. to introduce mechanisms for assessing the application by sports unions of the Code of Good Governance for PZS, adapting statutes and regulations to existing disciplinary rules on doping in sport, implementing the Code of Good Governance for PZS, enforcing responsibility for violation of anti-doping rules, carrying out active and systematic information and education activities, etc., etc. I'm sure the Minister knows all these conclusions. I would like a written reply: Have they been implemented? If so, at what stage is it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u309	Thank you, Member. One last question, Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u310	Thank you, Marshal. First of all, I'm joining my wishes for recovery. Thank you very much. Now let's get to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not surprising that the supervision of laboratories is transferred from the Ministry of Sport to the Ministry of Health. Given the media reports and what we know about Deputy Minister Meiza, I wouldn't even let him watch his bike for a while, either. So it's actually enjoyable. On the other hand, as far as this direction is concerned, let's go this way. The Ministry of Sport is the least needed ministry, which even you yourselves have proved and what you knew - it has been visible for the last year - because you have eliminated them. The Ministry of Sport was established only so that some important, ambitious politicians could get some jobs. In the meantime, there's a problem with one of the vice ministers, so why don't we just follow the punch and take out the ministry while we're at it. I encourage you to do that, and I'm sure I'll support that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u311	Thank you, sir. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, Minister Anna Krupka, to answer the questions raised. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u312	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The draft amendment of the act on combating doping in sport is due to the need to change the supervisory entity of the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory, which is currently supervised by the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. Since 1 January 2022, the WADA accredited anti-doping laboratories will not be supervised by the resort responsible for sport in the country concerned. Therefore, following the findings within the government, it was decided that the laboratory would be supervised by the Minister of Health. I would like to thank the Minister of Health for its openness and acceptance of the responsibilities associated with the supervision of the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory. At the same time, in answer to your Members' questions in this part, I will say: yes, we have agreements. They are finalised, concrete and under these arrangements the laboratory will be supervised by the Ministry of Health. The second problem that solves the project is the need to shorten the period for which the powers of anti-doping controllers are granted by the director of POLADA, the Polish Anti-Doping Agency. According to the new provisions of the WADA, the powers of anti-doping controllers should be conferred for a period of 2 years rather than for a period of 3 years, as indicated by Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 act. This provision will therefore be amended accordingly. As you can see, the project provides for little change and is purely technical and adaptable. Therefore, the project should not be controversial. On this occasion, I would like to thank all your Members for their smooth handling of this law. Fighting doping in sport, fighting for pure sport is a priority for our ministry and the Polish government. I am pleased that it is also a priority for your parliamentarians. I also wanted to address the questions raised in connection with the amendment of the law. Let's get the facts straight. Part of the provisions required by WADA has already entered into force on 1 January 2021. The others are the subject of the amendment. As regards the transitional provision, it is more precise. In the view of the government without this provision, the existing certificates would remain valid, but in order to cut back any doubts, we have decided to support this amendment. As far as real sports spending is concerned, they are larger each year. As I have already stressed, all solutions are agreed between the resorts. [[Why is this project so late?]] Once again, thank you very much for having all of you involved in the fight against doping in sport, fighting for pure sport, because this amendment is an expression of this. Thank you very much. [[Minister, why is this project so late? That's what we asked.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u313	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I would like to inform you that the planned item 12 will be considered on 8 or 9 December. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Police Act and certain other laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Office for Combating Cybercrime (Prints 1742 and 1796). I kindly ask Mr Mariusz Goska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u314	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the Government's draft Police Act and some other laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Bureau, print No. 1742. This draft was addressed by the Sejm at its 42nd meeting to be examined by the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee. Following the examination by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs of the above draft at its meeting of 30 November 2021, the committee asks the Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. The legislative amendments were submitted by parliamentary clubs, the circle and the Legislative Bureau, but also those of a formal and substantive nature during the process of the bill. A number of questions were raised, which were addressed in detail by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr Maciej Wąsik. The committee meeting lasted about three hours. The questions were also addressed by a police chief officer in charge of the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Control Office. The draft law establishing the Central Office for Combating Cybercrime will carry out tasks concentrated within the Police itself, because as we know, the Office for Combating Cybercrime has been operating since 2016. This law will directly extend competence in this area, and we know that we are living in a time when cybercrime is closely linked to the development of technology. These tasks will mainly be to identify, prevent and combat crime using IT or ICT equipment. Cybercrime is developing with the advances in technology and I deeply trust... We know that in terms of cybercrime, there are crimes committed through IT or ICT systems, there is drug crime, paedophile crime. As far as the Penal Code is concerned, practically all of this crime can be found there. The bill is absolutely necessary to fight crime effectively. The law gives further tools to law enforcement, the Polish Police, to effectively fight crime in this field. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I kindly request that the Sejm adopt this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u315	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Paweł Hreniak to the High House. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u316	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present at second reading a position in relation to the Law amending the Law on Police and certain other laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Office for Combating Cybercrime. Let me just remind you that the creation of a bill is due to the need to respond to the new challenges of more and more online crime. Hence the idea of establishing a new formation within the Police as the CBŚP model. It's the Central Cybercrime Bureau. The key to combating cybercrime will be a modern formation armed with appropriate legal tools, properly equipped and motivated. According to the provisions of the draft law, it is proposed to establish a uniform national police organizational unit and to establish a new service within it. The service will be responsible for identifying, preventing and combating cybercrime and prosecuting the perpetrators of cybercrime. It will be a modern formation armed with appropriate legal tools, properly equipped and motivated. Behind us is the first reading of the bill and the work on the project in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. The amendments adopted at the committee meeting, which first of all clarified the specific provisions, do not change the spirit of the law. The discussion at the committee meeting was calm and substantive, and the final outcome of the vote shows that the opposition considered this to be a good project. At the same time, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to make an amendment to your second reading. The Law and Justice Club is convinced that after the adoption of the law we will have a specific tool to fight against cyber criminals for the security of Poles online. This tool is a specialized office, which will consist of 1800 perfectly trained officers. We are convinced that this is the right way to fight the threats from the network. The Law and Justice Club supports a government project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u317	Thank you, sir. I'm gonna need some adjustments. Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Frysztak will speak on behalf of the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u318	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! During the detailed examination of the bill, I asked the Minister how the entire article really changed. 25th Police Act. It's about how you recruit new officers. The Minister asked me to say that nothing is changing. I argued that replacing words: a psychological test with words: a psychological examination creates a field for abuse in the future. These abuses can be committed in such a way that competitions will be announced in which officers will be recruited, who will not have to pass a popular test among police officers called MultiSelect. I'm glad the head of the police chief's legal office has granted me the right. I hope that the Minister will support the amendment tabled by the Civic Coalition Club at second reading. This will allow us to close down the abuse area. Ladies and gentlemen! I address all Poles. The Minister provides himself with full access to all bank accounts, payment cards, accounts and to be able to monitor Poles in such a way that he will only be able on the basis of Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One that deals with the suspicion of committing a crime, of going to the editors of funds, of electronic money... will be able to control and check what you have in your accounts, from whom you have it, from whom you transfer funds and what credits you have. This is a kind of field for abuse. Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Coalition Club is proposing an amendment which removes the possibility of exempting bank employees from professional secrecy. This is the last beachhead, bastion. Those who wish to use this provision in an unethical way need to be reduced. I hope that the Minister will also withdraw from this abuse. Ladies and gentlemen! One more thing. The Minister adds to the catalogue of crimes a crime of art. 279 §1, that's breaking and entering. We had a discussion at the committee meeting about this... I don't mean to say that it's a common crime, but it's one of the crimes that is often found for which criminals are punished. On the basis of this article, it will also be possible to monitor fully I encouraged the Director of the Ministry to force Minister Ziobra to do so in the article. 279 § 1 of the Penal Code add lit. and separate in a special way the crime of stealing data from the common crime of burglary. With today's inflation, ladies and gentlemen, in a moment, if someone steals three packs of cigarettes and two newspapers, they will also be able to be fully monitored. Once again, I encourage you to simply withdraw from these wrong, bad changes. We approve of an amendment that may result in the return of former officers who have left the service for a period not exceeding five years. I hope that this will allow for the power of the police ranks with those officers, whom you have probably also politically disposed of, because - how else can it be said - the cleansings were in all formations. You know, you, too, when you supervise this service, know that you politically disposed of good officers. I hope, Minister, that this bill will not cause what Agent Tomek said on TVN24 in the popular program of Agent Tomek's confession. Namely, one of the ministers said: we ride with them like a dung truck. This law gives, ladies and gentlemen, the possibility to fully monitor those who use electronic media, electronic payments. I must warn you, this could be a big area for abuse. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I am making amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u319	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u320	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Cybersecurity means responsibility of all Poles. It's a responsibility. Not just on the side of the force. First of all, it is the responsibility of people who struggle daily with cyber criminals who want to steal their data, manipulate their accounts, who are aware that they can easily put themselves in danger in the network of ordinary citizens. The responsible state wants to limit the possibilities of cyber attacks, the responsible state wants to build services, but also to give hope that the citizen, regardless of his place of residence in Poland, will be able to call and ask for support. Today in Polish services there are no qualified officers who would systematically respond to threats related to cybersecurity, and the scale of these threats is growing avalanchely. Cybersecurity has become a priority for many countries in Europe. Unfortunately, in Poland we still did not have a service that could counter such threats. Cybercrime has increased in recent years in such a way that we can twist the graph horizontally or vertically and it will always be the same. We are therefore dealing with an increasing number of offences, and the rules that introduced the protection of personal data and were the result of the implementation of the EU Directive have unfortunately illustrated how sensitive cybersecurity points are often violated. Therefore, the Left believes that the establishment of the authorities of a state that will give an opportunity to effectively counter cybercrime is a good direction and a responsible direction, but there is also a need for light in the tunnel, which will allow citizens to be taught effective countermeasures so that they do not have to use the services, Minister. So what are we proposing? We propose that the service, which is to be called the Central Cybercrime Office, be largely preventive, training, but also ensuring that the citizen on the network will have protection not only during the attack, not only when he knows that his data, money, resources have been stolen, because he will know how to counteract, how to secure his software and hardware, device and program. Only such a citizen will know that he can protect himself. That should be the identification and mission of this service. Therefore, we will pay very much attention to the fact that this is a service with training competences and corresponding social needs, which have been lacking in answers over the past years, if this can be defined in such delicate words. We also propose as a parliamentary club left amendment to the government's draft amendment to the Police Act, in which the Central Office for Combating Cybercrime is appointed. We believe that this openness, among others. should relate to the name of the service. This name should be renamed Cybersecurity Service. This amendment will be tabled, because this is the openness that causes to be countered not only in the format of the already detected or identified crime, but also in the format of the countermeasures. Further cases concern these psychological studies, including psychological tests, GDPR, conducting appropriate interviews, tests and practical examinations as regards the officers we will be joining in the service. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! The government's announcements about building a large service are very good. That's good, but it can't be a service bringing people together by chance, it has to be a service bringing people together the best of the best. Because we have good computer and mathematical traditions in Poland, known from the history that we can exchange today, so we should look for such police workers. There is no need to be afraid of looking for them at universities, and there is no need to be afraid of building a special cell in Szczytno, which will educate in this area. We need to give ourselves the chance to train police professionals who will drive around the world and say that we have a service that actually counters the threats of cybersecurity and prevention and the field of operations. Cybersecurity should always be free from any political influence. Finally, I will say: cybersecurity - yes, democracy - yes, and service free of political influence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u321	Thank you, sir. The Member wanted to make an amendment, didn't he? There you go. Mr Marek Biernacki, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u322	First of all, your health, Marshal. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present a position towards the government's draft law amending the Law on Police and some other laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Office for Combating Cybercrime, print No. 1742. The bill that we are pursuing should be seen as a step in the right direction. I talked about it in my previous speech. The bill in detail was also strongly discussed in committee and during the debate. That's why I want to draw attention. only on certain elements that the established Central Office for Combating Cybercrime cannot function as a separate entity, not linked by tasks in the ecosystem of institutions combating cybercrime. This is not only about national institutions, although they are very important, because it is also known that it is also about the security of Poles here on the ground, but mainly about institutions within the European Union. Cybercrime knows no borders, which is why in 2016 a directive was adopted on measures for a high common level of cybersecurity across the Union, so-called. NIS. The version of the directive, commonly referred to as the NIS 2 Directive, is now being substantially revised at the end. The new provisions are not only amending by extending the scope of the existing Directive, including: public administrations, not only impose higher management, handling and disclosure requirements, cyber security testing and efficient encryption use. It clarifies and extends incident reporting records. The NIS 2 is also an important new mechanism for international cooperation through the establishment of a European Cyberspace Crisis Management Network. The establishment of an office should take an active part in cooperation with EU Cyclone, a body established for this purpose. That is why I think it is worth introducing provisions into the bill, of course in the near future, which will already correspond with the legislation being implemented, which will make the office a modern unit, which, based on the analysis of incidents of IT systems vulnerability to burglary, will chase criminals faster than they will cover their tracks. Another thing is prevention and exchange of experience. Another element is the amendment of other acts which should be in correlation with this law, such as the National Cyber Security and Crisis Management Act, and together create one common organism, a system that has one task, combat cybercrime and prevent attacks, including at European Union level. On the other hand, the experience of the commander and alternates of the CBZC should be regulated by a regulation. It is undeniable to have an IT education, but I am aware of how the world is changing, there are new courses of study, certification paths in the area of security, so it would be pointless to include precise records in the act outside of IT education and English knowledge. The Minister of the Interior should be required to define the requirements for persons performing such critical functions. This will allow, on the one hand, to follow a changing environment and, on the other hand, to provide a public opinion with requirements regarding the powers of the Central Cybercrime Control Office. We are waiting, and this is a great challenge for the government, but also for Parliament, to prepare new legal instruments, i.e. legal instruments for which we will be moving in the cyberspace area, because very many events - so dynamic - are not defined. This requires that practically completely reinventing tasks, operational and research activities and identifying which ones and how they can be used in cyberspace, in order to effectively protect the citizen, but on the other hand, so that we cannot interfere so that we do not discuss the scandals, whether there is Pegasus in Poland, whether there is Pegasus, whether there is someone under surveillance, so that it is clear what powers the services have and to what extent they can interfere in the privacy of the citizen, especially in social media, where people operate. It all has to be, it should be strictly, clearly defined. On the one hand, in order for the services to operate effectively, because the services enjoy a certain scope of their conduct, on the other hand, the rights of the citizen must be protected in a clear and legible manner. This challenge awaits all of us, not just the government, but also all of us, we cannot avoid it. This is a challenge that we need to take up in the near future. Thank you, Marshal, High Izbo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u323	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, on behalf of the Confederate circle. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u324	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The submission addresses the problem of cybercrime, which is a problem of Polish cybersecurity in general. As such, it does not deserve particular criticism. We understand that this is a kind of reorganisation, centralization. The idea is to make cybercrime more effective. It remains to have a wish and a dream that the idea is equally well realized, because often the devil is in the details of what people do it with, how you do it. Today, on the other hand, it is necessary to raise the issue - I have this conviction, feeling or feeling - that it is again too late. There is a feeling of delay, a delay in fighting for legal order, Polish order. Because there's a question about the leaks from the ministers' mailboxes and the attack on the Members' mailboxes. Are they settled and brought to justice? That's the question. There's another question. Do you wonder why only one minister's e-mails fly, fly? And as you can presume, more resources have not yet been used. So someone's playing with it, someone's playing with it. All the more reason why I'm going back to the previous question as to whether they're already found guilty. This issue is not a trivial issue, because it may be criminals, but it may also be a way of adversely affecting the state, a type of sabotage of various kinds, precisely IT. We are dealing with this right now in the area of the banking system, ladies and gentlemen, which is under a lot of pressure from the hacker attacks. These things are happening right now. Question: "Does the servants at this point work hard enough, and are we able to answer such things?" The point is to distinguish the problem of cybercrime from another problem that may be related to it, but it may also be unrelated. This is about pressure on our country by other countries who may be concerned about destabilising the situation in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u325	Thank you, sir. And Mr Michał Grammar on behalf of Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u326	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We will, of course, vote in favour of this bill. This is the law that will find our support. It's not like you're building a new service. Today in Poland there is an office to fight computer crime, against cybercrime. It's working fine. The fact is that this is a certain extension of this force and this is a good direction. I'm shocked by what I said in my first reading, which is to say that I'm being pressured to build a new headquarters. Maybe not in Warsaw, maybe. Radom? [[Applause]] There would be Members in this Chamber who would certainly be pleased. I hate to think that we're gonna be able to solve this problem with the number of officers. To gain from the market 1,700 people who will be specialists in hacking, in the field of defence against cybercrime, this is really a very, very big challenge that no corporation in Poland would have undertaken. We're offended by a special way of getting these personnel, without a process of professional adaptation, without psychological testing, without a physical fitness test. In this respect, even the Ministry of Justice was opposed at the legislative stage. But what personally bothers me the most is a gigantic extension of the scope of operational control. We in Poland already have such a situation that the powers of all kinds of services to carry out operational activities are simply huge. Moreover, these powers are huge and in principle not subject to any judicial review. This law adds another large catalogue of acts, which extends these powers even further. We will make an amendment that excludes some particularly controversial types of crime, which are controversial not because of the crime itself, but because of your justification. We don't mind using operational control against e.g. paedophile acts, but we already have a lot against using such control, for example. in relation to acts of the type: interference with the operation of the network or unauthorised obtaining of information, or e.g. false alarms, with which conventional methods the Polish Police are doing quite well. Art. 49 and Article 49 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's It all suffers when the expansion of operational control is introduced. Some experts ask the question: Can we even talk about the right to privacy in Poland? By calming the Minister, I want to say I'm a criminal. I grew up scientifically in the Department of Crimes, and I know how important and necessary the police work is. I have such a problem, Minister, that I simply do not trust you and the politicians of your formation. You know why, at least you know your history (the bell) of abuse of authority. The bitter reflection on the state of the Polish fight against cybercrime was also raised today during this discussion. The so-called e-mails of Minister Dworczyk That's the subject... Thank you. ...after spring, early summer. Where are the guilty? What actions have been taken? When they inform you who committed this attack... Thank you, sir, time is up. ...by passing on more than general? Mr... Thank you very much, Marshal, for extending your time. I'm handing over the amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u327	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Lewis Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u328	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are talking about a very important area, the area of state security, the area of cybercrime. We're talking about a government project today. Minister! The reorganization and proposal of new solutions in the framework of safeguarding the Polish state and citizens and combating cybercrime is very well founded, but I have a question for you: What have you so far noticed the shortcomings in the area of existing police structures, in the area of combating cybercrime? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u329	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u330	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! While, in the vast majority of cases, I am in favour of abandoning the centralisation mechanisms, in the case of the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Office, I consider this appropriate. However, it is impossible not to raise other questions on this occasion. I would therefore like to ask the Minister about the embargo imposed on Poland by the producer purchased by our country of the Pegasus spy system, as the press today writes. Will our country actually be cut off from updating the system, which in a very short time will cause its total uselessness? Do the notifications sent to mobile phone users by a company, a global giant, about the alleged spying of Polish judges by our special forces are true, that I probably will not find out today, but I would like to ask if the Polish party will decide to sue this company. Thank you very much. I'd like a written reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u331	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u332	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, the bill refers to further powers of surveillance, spying. Of course, if they had been used so far - I will remind you that this catalogue has expanded significantly over the last 6 years - if these powers were used for the benefit of the state, in the public interest, I think that no one in this Chamber would have any doubt that they are necessary. Today we hear that the government has been deprived of tools that allow spying, because there is a high probability of using these tools to spy on the opposition, to spy on journalists. In this situation, the government brings to Parliament another law, which is to extend these powers even further. I think it would be irresponsible of us to allow such a thing. I'd also like to ask you about a special way of getting personnel without an adaptation period, without psychological testing. How do you (the bell) want to ensure state security if people without a proper process will be admitted to the special services? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u333	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u334	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about hackers, white hats, so-called. White hats, with top-class professionals, who often remain at the service of private contractors. One of the activities that you extend your right to operational control concerns the disruption of the network's operation. This is a standard procedure to fight the so-called. DDoS attacks. It checks how much this network can withstand, and it's standard procedure not attack, it's attack protection. What's going on in these situations? Are such professionals who guard the protection of interests e.g. Polish entrepreneurs, can they feel safe in the context of your act? Since I've got 17 minutes left, I'm sorry, 17 seconds, I'll also ask about Apple's reported attack on the phone of one of the Polish prosecutors. Have you taken action in this regard? Which way will these actions go? It is well known that this system is not sold to any customer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u335	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u336	Minister! The number of cyber attacks on Internet banking is particularly increasing. I didn't get any answers about my doubts. These cyber criminals are particularly innovative. Types of cybercrime banking is a huge amount: phishings, shimminggi, hackings, sniffings and more. My question... The detection of these crimes is very optimisticly estimated to be close to 10%. , certainly not more, because many of these cases banks try to negotiate, mediate with injured customers on their own. Statistics are uncertain in this case. I have a question. How will the Minister cooperate with banks on organisational and technical matters (the Bell) in creating criminal law solutions to cut this off, increase detection?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u337	Thank you very much. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition. Come on in. You don't have one, do you? Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u338	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The police law under investigation and the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Office are very important tools - we stressed this during the work of the committee - for the very operation of the police and for the prosecution of hacker attacks. The importance of the Internet, extremists, as we see, has increased since the pandemic, also the number of users and various types of actions, but also the hacking attacks have intensified. Minister, will 1700 new cybersecurity officers also be placed in county headquarters so as to bring closer contact to the residents of the county Poland? You know that's what's going on with them, don't you? Are they just gonna be officers in the voivodship headquarters? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u339	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The establishment of the Central Office for Combating Cybercrime is certainly a good idea, but it is in our case another office, posts, jobs, more public money to spend without control, because it is about crime. What are our special forces doing? We have so many services: ABW, Intelligence Agency, Central Anti-corruption Bureau. And another additional subject is needed. We don't trust our government, he failed on the whole line. Financial fraud, fraud and machoism, lack of credibility. Question: "How much budget is foreseen for this office, and isn't it about increasing the powers to see the life of Poles again?" Another surveillance of citizens, even though it violates constitutional law. Art. 49 gives us freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u341	Thank you, Member. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u342	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In response to the substantive arguments of Mr Mariusz Goska from Solidarna Poland, because of which the Central Office for Combating Cybercrime should be established as soon as possible, we heard the voice of the Civic Platform, Mr Frysztak, completely irresponsible, completely untrue. What does the Civic Platform care about? Well, he cares that the police don't have access to criminal bank accounts. Something unbelievable. What does the Civic Platform care about? [[Question.]] He cares that, indeed, yes, we fired all the security officers who worked at the police force within six years. We've done decommunization. Today, I believe, those SB officers whose pensions you're defending sign up for the Platform and you stand up for them. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are fighting crime and not talking about it. You're the last to teach us how to fight crime. Less Sławomir Novaks. We will fight cybercrime effectively. Congratulations, Minister, draft bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u343	Thank you, sir. [[Your marshal, in corrigendum mode.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are asking for a question, and mostly you are not asking questions, you are attacking. So let us respect each other. [[I haven't had a chance to ask yet.]] In fact, we are at the point of question, as I draw the Member's attention to, because I always do, regardless of the group. But in what mode, sir? [[In corrigendum mode. My name has been mentioned and the Member has referred to me.]] But the corrigendum... Mr President, I understand that you will be referring to what you will say to the Minister. We're not gonna be each other right now... [[I would like to refer to what Mr Kowalski said by mentioning my name.]] I really don't see the need here, sir. [[I'm gonna insist, after all.]] Good. Half a minute. May I have this?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u344	Yes. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Speaker! Look for communists and esbeks in your ranks and in your club's ranks, because I think today this club has the most communists in its group. [[Applause]] But, sir, this was supposed to be a corrigendum. Mr. Speaker! I have the impression that you, firstly, do not know the provisions of this law, and secondly, do not understand the idea of this law. I'm not talking about the fact that criminals will be under surveillance, but there's potential there - those who can commit this crime, and so do you. [[Applause]] [[I vote in favour.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u345	Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u346	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! From all sides, we hear that this law is needed, that it is necessary to create services that will respond to cybercrime. And you're questioning it, and you're saying it's gonna be jobs for no one knows who. Minister, I have a question for you. This pioneered service will be created. How will the recruitment continue? Will people, cops, who are already working in the area of cybercrime, be able to continue to work in this area? Will there be additional training for police officers? If so, at what school, where will these trainings be conducted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u347	Thank you, Member. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u348	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask you about the security, the cybersecurity of citizens when it comes to cybercrime, of course, potential state. After all, everyone has emphasized this before, we have heard about this communication Apples, who has reported break-ins worldwide to numerous stakeholders about the illegal use of Pegasus spy software. I want to remind you of the history of Pegasus in Poland. It was allegedly purchased by the CBA - it was never denied, it was not said that it did not happen - illegally, because from the Justice Fund, this fund, which is administered by Solidarna Polska, and the CBA cannot be financed from sources other than the state budget. Question: "Can this special service now be financed by various twisted roads?" Because he's not gonna be in CBA anymore. Can this service be financed, among others. By the funds of Solidarna Polska? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u349	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, the Left Club, asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Could you provide information - I would also ask for such information in writing - what is the structure of police staff today, who deal with cybercrime, cybersecurity, in the various structures of voivodship commands? I know these structures work. They are different depending on the voivodship, i.e. There's a different number of officers. It's one of the elements of the question. The second element is asking the Minister to state what the average salaries are for police officers and officers who deal with cybersecurity. I'm asking for this data for a reason. In a few months' time, there will be new legislation on co-financing, more funding for cyber workers and officials, so I would like to be aware of the difference between the current salary and the one planned under the law that will allow for the possibility of granting allowances for cybersecurity officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u351	Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. I'm asking you kindly to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For years there have been cybercrime offices in command. However, this project does not envisage funding these structures, their modernisation and the addition of modern equipment. On the other hand, it assumes centralisation and the creation of a single body that is actually subject to two people who will have absolute power in this structure. The formation of such possibilities, which will be able to monitor everyone and which has national reach, cannot be in the hands of two people. In the present distributed form, such actions would be much more difficult and easier to detect. The form of offices managed by different commandants limits this possibility by reducing the risk of misuse. Minister, how will the citizen be sure that the Central Office for Combating Cybercrime (CAB) will not be used to over-surveill citizens? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u353	Thank you, Member. Mr Mariusz Gosek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u354	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! First of all, I thank you for this procedated bill, because you cannot listen to what some of you, from the opposition Members, say - that these will be tools that will serve further surveillance. You're talking about the Pegasus system, about his purchase from the Justice Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, this procedated bill on the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Bureau clearly indicates... If you look at the records of this bill, you will find there the tasks to be carried out by the Central Cybercrime Control Office. You know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that as technology progresses, online crime is developing. As parliamentarians, we must be responsible, we must be a unity in the process of this project. I trust deeply, and I hope that this excellent, excellent project, which will also be conducive to all law enforcement authorities (the bell), as well as the prosecution, will be supported by all of us. Thank you very much again, Minister, for this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u355	Thank you, sir. Where was the question, sir? But thank you very much. [[Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko: He didn't make it.]] Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, every day we talk about cybercrime, cyber threats. This project is needed, but it's hard to blame the words that fall from the platform. This concerns and concerns about large-scale planned solutions, such as the provision that the service by means of computer devices or programs will be able to access information not intended for it, either by breaking or bypassing electronic, magnetic, IT or other specific security features, or by accessing all or part of the information system. Such records raise reservations, and good. On the other hand, I would like to ask, Minister, why solutions are to be put in place since 2025, I mean full operational capacity. In the bill I read that at the beginning there will be 300 people employed, and then 1800. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is the reason for this time that by 2025? I'm talking about presenting about the chronology of the actions you're planning. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u357	Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u358	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minor cybercrime is currently being fought on the basis of private indictments. There are also situations where the prosecution refuses to initiate, the court orders the initiation, there is a refusal again and then a private indictment remains. I'm interested in what's gonna happen then. At the moment, an indictment, whether private or stipendary, is filed there, unknown by name, and the police determine it. Will this continue to be determined by the police, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or the central office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u359	Thank you very much, sir. And that was the question. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Fighting cybercrime is, of course, a challenge for all state services, and today we are debating a special law on the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Office. I wanted to ask the Minister how these new solutions, giving authority to office officers, are in place for other state services. What makes it necessary to set up this office? What additional competences does the office receive? How does this apply to existing solutions, to what Polish services have today? Secondly, will these solutions proposed in the Act better protect state offices, as well as parliamentarians, ministers and all public persons? Will they protect better - that is the question - and how will they protect better? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u361	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u362	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the PiS! Do not be surprised that one of the Members may think otherwise that someone is criticizing something. There are really a lot of reasons to criticize, and that is one of the reasons for the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, cybersecurity is and will be one of the biggest challenges of today's world, Europe, including Poland. Undoubtedly, this formation we are talking about is very much needed. But this formation must have authority and must serve all Poles. You can't make the same mistake, Minister. as with the CBA, which in a sense became a political formation. I have a final question - please answer in writing - how you want to do all kinds of training, but also education and prevention. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think this is one of the very important factors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u363	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u364	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Do not be surprised that we are talking about Pegasus surveillance systems, since Polish prosecutors receive information that there have been attempts to monitor them through this system. There are media reports that you have a problem as a Polish government to refresh this system, update, because our country has been included on the list of authoritarian countries. Minister! I asked you at the committee meeting and I would like to hear the answer in the plenary room, what will happen to the police staff - there is a provision in the bill - who will not receive a proposal to move to the CBZC, which is the Central Cybercrime Bureau. As far as civilian workers are concerned, as I said at the committee meeting, it is clear that it regulates the CCPD. There's no proposal to change, so they're in this mode. That's where you wrote down that this is a change in working conditions and wages. Yes, it's written down in the bill, Minister, you're surprised, but it will formally be the termination of the agreement to these people. What about officers who don't get a proposal like that? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is underprecised in the Act. What about officers and civil servants who do not receive a proposal to move to the CBZC? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u365	Thank you very much. And Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation. I see that you have somehow booked yourself these last questions, Mr. President. [[That's clever.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u366	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Many years ago, when Facebook and Twitter were still crawling, I got a call to the police, I was suspected of promoting Nazism. I went to the police station slightly stressed and it turned out that the police were investigating the report because on my facebook profile I placed a sketch, a video of the CollegeHumor group, which was called the Grammar Nazis, it was a parody of the famous scene from the war bastards of Quentina Tarantino from the interrogation. There was a lot of laughter, I had to translate this sketch in my statement for three hours. Of course, I was released and the case was dropped. The Confederacy will support the establishment of this office, and I very much hope that the real cyber criminals will be hunted, not like me, the people who committed the memo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u367	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Maciej Wąsik, to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u368	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the discussion at the committee meeting was extremely interesting and very good. I welcome all these words of support for the proposal to amend the Police Act and to set up a new line in the form of the Central Cybercrime Bureau. I understand there are some doubts about operational control here. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to highlight one thing. No police officer, no other officer can turn on the operating control button. For there to be operational control, there must be consent, there must be a reasoned request, there must be the consent of the prosecutor and the consent of the court. Not only is the validity of the proposal checked, but it is also whether it is a subsidy method, the final one, the furthest. It can then be used when other measures have failed or it is known that they will not result. So I would stress that operational control can only be applied under the control of the court. Although, of course, there are pathology here. An example is my wife's case, which was by the Homeland Security Agency, which didn't come in on any of the cases, eavesdropped for three months in 2010, but I'm sure you don't want to know about it. Krzysztof Bondaryk was the head of the ABW at the time. And my wife, my wife's phone, has been bugged for three months. So these pathologies happen. I hope the D.A.'s office will settle this case soon enough. So don't tell me about surveillance. The bank secret you asked about. Every time there's a court order to break the bank secret. I would also like to emphasise one more point. One of your fellow Members asked, I think, Mr Tomaszewski, what new competences, which other police members do not have, will win the office. None. It's all in the Polish legal system. On the other hand, I am amazed at the question of Mrs Hanajczyk, who spoke about the article. 20c that isn't there. She asked for a recipe that isn't there. I don't know if there's any more Hanese. There it is. [[Minister, exemption from professional secrecy is new.]] This is in the Polish legal system. Exactly. I want you to really get to know me. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in the Polish legal system and the police have such regulations. Not in the Police Act, just to be clear. There really is no new super hyper instrument. This is the only office that will be centralised, even for management and training purposes. It's supposed to be an office that's gonna be centralized because of some elite skills and knowledge. Also the elite pay, because those cops who are going to be in the CBZC must unfortunately earn much more than their colleagues who run patrol service. Because if they don't make money, they're going to go to the market because the market is paying a lot for these skills. We have to offer competitive rates, there is no doubt about that. I would like to reassure you, all of you from the opposition, but also all the police and civil servants listening to us. In connection with the entry into force of the law, no policeman or civilian employee will lose their jobs. They'll be moved to other tasks that the police have a lot of. And their experience, even in a trial, will certainly be useful in other police units, we have no doubt about it. What else do we have in mind? Of course, we have to chase criminals. This is always the case when new and more frequent forms of crime appear. The police need to adapt, and that's exactly what this bill will allow. I would also like to assure you that there will be psychological tests. We wrote a study because the study consists of a test and a conversation. We called it a study. If this reassures your Members: we, if it has been tabled, will accept - as we said at the committee meeting - so that there is no doubt here. Operation control on false alarms is still a huge problem. Without the most far-reaching means of operating, we can't get it. There won't be a chance, sir, to collect fingerprints, there won't really be. This isn't a garage break-in, is it? Cascade alarms using the Tor system are huge challenges for great specialists with great equipment, well-paid, economic security. That's our idea, to make them great, well-paid specialists. There's another very important thing I wanted to tell you about. The Internal Security Agency provides cyberspace security in the gov sector, which is in a wider sector, let's call it government. There must be a specialized unit that will ensure the safety of citizens, and this is what is dedicated to citizens. The CBZC is an institution for citizens who have been harmed by cyber criminals. This is extremely important. So that you can call 112 and be redirected to the right place, file a complaint there and count on you to hack into your account - into a bank account, into a mail account, into an account used for games, because from what I read, they are sometimes valuable - they were hunted, and they were effectively. We need specialists to do that. And I am pleased that you in the vast majority agree with this. I'm happy with the words that fall here, that it can't be a service made up of random people. Yeah, exactly, I could sign off on that, and I'm pretty sure it's not gonna be a service made up of random people. And on the other hand, he must have some distinctness, because a man who acquires enormous skills in terms of network, software, will certainly not jump through a goat as effectively as a man who aspires to, for example, candidate service in prevention. We also need to take this into account that this separation must also be in the recruitment process. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, To answer the question, I would like to say that at the moment, 350 people are serving in the police's cyber services, which are unfortunately scattered around the voivodship commands. In my opinion, most of them will find work in a new formation, which means they will get a big raise, but of course they will have to prove their skills, as well as knowledge of the language in which, as if cyberspace is moving, in which cyberspace is working. It seems that, above all, there are not enough of them, they are underpaid and must be centralised in some way. There's no doubt about that. We're not going to the county headquarters. In the county headquarters, we don't expect, let's call it, delegations of this CBZC. We will reach only and only the voivodship commands. It seems that this should be enough, unless the challenges go further, then we will go further. Nothing stands in the way. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! Please accept this project at the next reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u369	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot move on to the next two points, because the committees have just finished their work and we do not have reports yet. As a result, I manage the time-out until 3 p.m. 4:30. [[Voice from the hall: Will we be able to do that, Marshal?]] We have such information that they should be by then. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 04 hours 16 min 31]] I'm reopening the session. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law on voluntary firefighters, print No 1809. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on voluntary firefighters (Prints No. 1765 and 1809). I kindly ask Mr Paul Hreniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u370	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! And of course, the esteemed volunteer firefighters, because today we're gonna talk about you in the Seym. I have the great honour of presenting to the High House a report on the work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the law on voluntary firefighters. Previously, the Permanent Sub-Committee was involved in this project. the development and promotion of TSOs, followed by the Board of Administration and Home Affairs. The discussion in the administration committee was extremely calm and substantive, for which I would like to thank all the Members who participated in this discussion. Today, it must be recalled - we discussed this in the committee - that the draft law that has been examined by the High House covers the most organized community of our country. It is clear to everyone that there is no safe Poland today without 230 thousand. firefighters volunteer firefighters who account for 96% the total number of fire protection units in our country. At the same time, it is difficult to believe today - we also talked about this in the course of work in committee - that so numerous and well deserved for security Polish formation created by people who for years have been providing unselfish help to another person, has not yet had a dedicated law. The draft law on voluntary firefighters is a long-awaited legal standard, it is a continuation of the joint action of the entire fire community in 1990 and 1991, the aim of which was to reform the legal system from the past era. The result of the actions taken at that time was the adoption by the X-Sejm of the Law on State Fire and Fire Protection. Even then, 22 years ago, at the meeting of the Sejm Sub-Committee in 1991, the then President of the General Board of Volunteer Fire Guards mentioned the need for a law on TSOs. So, ladies and gentlemen, we also discussed this at first reading. The current project is the result of many years of scientific analysis and conferences, the activity of firefighters' friends, professional firefighters and finally the ministry's activities. They all sought to regulate in one legal act the situation of this unique group of people, the people who carry it, once again I will stress this, unselfish help to others. I would like to see this bill, as we are all here, as an expression of great respect for Parliament towards voluntary firefighters. I would like to point out that the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs as a whole - this is the result of the amendments voted - does not share the view which emerged in the discussions in the committees that it is enough to amend the Fire Protection Act. The Fire Protection Act, which should be clearly highlighted, is a system regulation. Voluntary firefighters, so well deserved for state security, should have their own law, as should the State Firefighters. Firefighters volunteered, like professional firefighters, deserved this distinction. It should also be borne in mind that regulations should keep up with the changing challenges around us, especially those relating to the maintenance of personal levels. In the course of the work in committee, the alleged lack of consultation on the draft law was also alleged. Ladies and gentlemen! I really - I was talking about it - I do not remember the draft law, which would be consulted so widely and for a long time. The preliminary project was discussed at many meetings with CSR's friends. I attended several meetings myself. At this point, it should also be recalled that the legislative proposals on the working material were also discussed before the draft law was officially sent to the Sejm, at the meeting of the Permanent Committee for Foreign Affairs. TSOs. This meeting took place on June 30th. The result of these numerous consultations was that many of the demands raised by the fellow Members were included in the bill. The evidence that the firefighters were listening is that this project differs from the original proposal. This is the result of listening to what the bridesmaids said at meetings at this lowest municipal and district level. High Izbo! Turning now from the overall conclusions of the committee's work to the more detailed ones, it must be pointed out that the aim of the proposed regulation is to improve the situation of volunteer firefighters in a thorough manner. For the purpose of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: exemption from work, equivalent, compensation, compensation, pensions, discounts, reliefs, and their families also state aid in the event of the death of a volunteer firefighter during rescue operations, which, I hope, will never occur. The lifeguard will be entitled to periodic and free medical examinations as well as free psychological assistance. The firefighter shall be provided with personal protective equipment and special uniforms. Maintaining the firehouses will be less cumbersome by regulating the electricity tariff at household level. Firefighters will be granted a card providing additional privileges. The CSR Firefighters have been given the opportunity to award the Florian Badge for the merits of the Local Community. The State budget provides funding for the training of rescue firefighters of TSOs, including funding for the acquisition of category C driver powers. The rules for the organisation of training of rescue firefighters will allow you to obtain a professional firefighter title. This is just, ladies and gentlemen, some of the benefits of the bill that we discussed during the committee work and earlier in the subcommittee. At the first reading of the subcommittee and the committee, of course, amendments were made. Some of these amendments, tabled by members of the Law and Justice Club, concerned protection of rescue firefighters not only owned by PSPs, but also by residents themselves, the mayor or the mayor. These amendments make it clear that the possibility of leaving the unit can be exercised not only by the PSP, but also by the vodar of the commune or the inhabitant. Here I would like to explain that the shape of the previous provisions in the Act actually allowed firefighters to be protected by this protection, but for the sake of clarity we are detailing these records. Five amendments were adopted at the overall meeting of the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee and 15 minority proposals were also tabled. As far as parliamentarians are concerned, there were 26 votes in favour of the overall bill, along with the amendments adopted, no one voted against and no one abstained. This shows that despite the differences, despite the discussion - fortunately, the discussion, I have the impression, substantive - as a whole of the administration committee, all members of this committee considered that the law on voluntary firefighters is a good law that will serve this environment. I would therefore like, on behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, to recommend that the High House adopt this law together with the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u371	Thank you kindly, sir, for this detailed report. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mrs Marta Kubiak. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u372	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government's draft law on voluntary firefighters. Volunteer firefighters have been performing many functions for centuries, far beyond standard rescue operations. In fact, the local community has always been gathering around the TSO. They are the driving force behind many cultural or educational activities and bring together the whole cross-section of society. There is no doubt, therefore, that in many localities it is the voluntary firefighters who dictate the rhythm of social life and the actions they take. It is also clear that it is necessary to regulate the legal and organisational and financial situation of voluntary firefighters. At the same time, we want to leave voluntary firefighters the possibility of choosing an organisational and legal form and, crucially, leave them a social character so that they can continue to fulfil their role in the local community. I would particularly like to draw attention to the initiative to honor all those volunteer firefighters who have been active in rescue activities for years, engaging in supporting the State Fire Department, helping and often putting their lives at risk to save others. At the initiative of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice of these persons should receive 200 zlotys of additional benefits after they have served for 25 years in the case of men and 20 years in the case of women. According to our club, it will be appropriate to honor the long-term work of these people, to appreciate their willingness to help and to reward their merits. Volunteer firefighters account for over 96% the total number of fire protection units. There are now nearly 230 thousand in the whole country. firefighters of volunteer firefighters who have the authority to participate in rescue operations. Missing this powerful group, as it has been for years, leaving it on the margin or ignoring its accomplishments, is inappropriate. Therefore, the granting of this benefit in the amount of PLN 200 should only be the beginning of the elimination of the injustice that has affected this group over the years. Furthermore, our initiative also includes other actions, including the granting of additional powers to CSR members - among others. exemption from the provision of work, the right to periodic free medical examinations or the financing of the acquisition of additional allowances. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, please accept the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u373	Thank you, Member. Ms Małgorzata Płępek will speak on behalf of the Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u374	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present with Krystyna Skowronska the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition regarding the government draft law on voluntary firefighters, print No. 1765. In the beginning, it should be noted that the only positive element of this law is the addition to pensions of PLN 200 for bridesmaids who, for at least 25 years for men and 20 years for women, participated directly in rescue and forest operations. In this respect, there were clear expectations in the community of voluntary fire. And that's it. The remaining part of the bill is an attempt on the independence of voluntary firefighters. The project introduces solutions that limit the independence of these units, subject them to total control by the State Fire Department, reduces the rights of volunteer firefighters in terms of legal protection, the right to equivalent for participation in rescue and training activities, the right to compensation and monetary compensation for loss of health. There are also good concerns about the inclusion of voluntary associations in the structure of the State's defence. In the opinion of the interested parties, only a step towards the creation of militarised units from the TSOs. In summary, the law itself, as well as the way in which it is dealt with and the lack of consultation, prove that the PiS is afraid of civil society. [[The voice from the hall: Jesus...]] What the consultation looked like, we presented at the committee meeting... [[Józef Ratchrzek-Żelazko: We know how it really was.]] ...and we know how it was actually, so don't be outraged, 'cause unfortunately, I'm introducing myself here as it was. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] PiS is afraid that volunteer firefighters will be able to manage and actively develop their own organization for years so well protecting the safety, property, health and life of local communities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u375	Thank you, Member. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition, in the second part of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u376	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The opinion of all the communities is this: voluntary firefighters are the only organisation that brings real help in rural areas on a daily basis. 700,000. They're friends of volunteers. $230,000. in the units of the national emergency-extinguishing system. That's real support for 31 grand. professional firefighters. At this point, it should be said that you have forgotten about the citizens' project launched in 2017. Nothing happened in that term. This year we repeated this, presented this initiative to the friend Janusz Necessary and she also long lay down. In this civic project, there was talk of an allowance for participation in rescue and fire-fighting operations. 300 PLN for all bridesmaids with valorization after a period of 10 years. These criteria were exceeded and the rate was lowered. 200 zł, 20 years bridesmaids, 25 years bridesmaids. What we're trying to say is that at a time when you were paying big bonuses, unfortunately, there was no money for volunteer friends, volunteer firefighters. And that is your sin of omission. In this respect, we say that any initiative that grants such an allowance compensates for the involvement in rescue and fire operations gives a chance to honor the volunteers' friends. Except this 200 zloty is a little charity. We proposed at the committee meeting and now we propose to extend the period, to separate two deadlines for the implementation of this law. If additions are already available, from 1 January 2022 and the remaining parts should be introduced later so that TSOs can adapt their statutes in this respect. We propose a number of amendments: to increase the allowance to a minimum of 300 zlotys with value as in the bill, shorten the period of internship to rescue and fire operations or after 15 years of women and men, or 15 years of women and 20 years of age men. We want, Minister - and this is the amendment we make (the bell) - a solution to ensure that it is the Minister of Administration and Home Affairs under special conditions... Thank you. ...could grant special allowances in a situation where a fellow lifeguard, at many years of service, had an accident and did not fulfil the criterion of internship to grant this supplement. Thank you very much, Member. Your marshal, yesterday your marshal extended... I'd like to finish. But, Member, you already have your... Your Marshal Kidawa-Błońska extended your group members. But you're talking right now, taking your time, so go ahead. I would like to say that as a firefighter of the TSOs, as vice-president of the Parliamentary Fire Team, I will make these amendments, which I am talking about, because this is important. And in response to the arguments and accusations of the state that firefighters were underestimated, I would like to remind you in this Chamber that in 2000... But no, my fellow Member, I apologize, but if reminding you, maybe that's enough. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. I'm not getting out of the bleacher. Get me out of here. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] There you go, Member. Madame, I am really trying to be polite, unlike you. Therefore, I kindly ask you to leave the platform. I'd like to finish. I'm asking you kindly to leave the podium. I'd like to finish... [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] I'm asking you kindly to leave the podium. It's been a minute and a half. [[Voice from the Chamber: Why are you breaking the rules, Member?]] Because the Member always thinks he can. Yesterday, you extended the marshal for seven minutes... [[Voice from the room: But it was yesterday.]] Madame, time is running out. I'd like to finish, say... But I have already told you, Member. We're not gonna be like what happened eight years ago. We focused on this project. You continue, you are already interfering with the proceedings. Last sentence... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You've really had two minutes of extension. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, on behalf of the Left Club. There isn't? [[Voice from the Chamber: There is, there is a Member.]] You're welcome, sir. You're welcome, unless you're resigning. [[But what do I have...]] Mr... [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] Member, will you leave the stand? Madame, I would like to point out that you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madame, I kindly remind you that you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm. Member of the Commission, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. [[Voice from the room: They've already shown it on TV, they've shown it.]] Member of the Commission, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I call you to order, and I find that you are preventing your deliberations from being held. You gave... You're preventing the proceedings. Don't you understand that? Don't you know the rules of the Sejm? Can you be more than any other parliamentarian? [[Voice from the room: she thinks so.]] Mrs... But, Your Marshal... Member, I have already said. Do I have one last clause to say? If you want, go ahead. Your marshal, but you made it impossible for me to finish my speech. Three and a half minutes, ma'am. You're already interfering. Your marshal, you were just arguing with me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u377	Here you go, sir, the position of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u378	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! Officers of the State Fire Department! Employees of the State Fire Department! Dear Friends of Municipal, District Branches, the Management Board of the National Association of Voluntary Guards of the Republic of Poland! It's a big day. Today's debate on the situation of voluntary firefighters as those responsible together with the state service for the safety of Poles and Poles deserves our respect and appreciation. On behalf of Parliamentary Left Club for all of this, bridesmaids and bridesmaids, officers, thank you very much. It's a family that brings together 700,000 today. members and members. It's not $230,000, it's $700,000. [[Voice from the E.R. Firefighters' Room.]] Those with rescue powers are 230 grand. [[Voice from the hall: So it was said.]] Over 16,000. Volunteer firefighters. We're all building this fire protection together. I'm sure the beginning was difficult. This fireman's day gift didn't go too far for the ministers except for one emergency service. The rest is a big circle that we have rolled together, together, since May 20, when I asked a question on current matters. The Minister replied: through governmental, non-governmental, local and local consultations. Everyone's together today... I believe that we are dealing with a valid law - a law that introduces new solutions. I am not talking about the one where you sign up and transfer the solutions from the Fire Protection Act, but about solutions such as allowing you to be a driver after 65 years of age, if you have appropriate medical examinations; crediting the medical tests used in relation to TSOs, also what is in the State Fire Department; allowing you to use a special energy tariff such as for the population; allowing firefighters to participate in the training for drivers of privileged vehicles above 3.5 t and financing it by the State Fire Department. Relations with the local government. Firstly, the possibility for municipalities to keep accounting and accounting. Secondly, excluding the councillors of all levels of executive bodies from being able to operate, carrying out business activities on the property of the municipality, in the voluntary fire department. This is a big exception. I hope that we will use this in a reasonable manner. As far as rescue provision is concerned, we believe that it should be, first, higher, because inflation ate this beginning, second, after 15 years, as in the case of service officers who, by 1999, could have gone to retirement after 15 years, now after 20 years. Thirdly, we believe that this is an honorary service. The State exempts from personal income tax. It would not be a great loss, because from next year the tax-free amount will be raised. This would apply to a small group, but it would stress that this is an honorary service granted by the State for a specific voluntary service for State security. I would like to say that many things and proposals have been adopted during the work of both the subcommittee and the committee meeting. The Minister accepted the majority, among others. Those who charged the submission of voluntary firefighters to the State Fire Department. Participation in shares not only at the request of the State Fire Department, compensation, compensation for total participation in shares, inclusion of this in the catalogue, where there will also be compensation, equivalent of exercises... All this makes it a different bill than at the start. That is why it is worth working on, it is worth leaning down, Minister, to be open to a few other amendments that will be tabled here. We have a chance to adopt a good bill for volunteer firefighters. But do not think, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a consent to rubberizing in the life of fire protection of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards of the Republic of Poland, which this year celebrates its century. That's the kind of rehearsal that comes in here. I hope that this will still be an important representative (The Bell) of the firefighter's environment. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! After the amendments were tabled at second reading, the Left Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u379	Thank you, Mr President, for your very substantive speech. Thank you for the correction. Ms Urszula Nowogórska will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u380	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Marek Biernacki Conservatives a position towards the government's draft law on voluntary firefighters contained in Seym printing No. 1765. Minister! I'll start differently than my previous speakers. I'll start with history. I don't know if you know that the oldest known fire fighting units were Roman vigiles organized in 6 C.E. by Emperor Octavian Augustus, and the first who developed the principles of modern fire was Andrzej Frycz-Modrzewski. In 1921 the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards was established, which this year celebrates the century. Members of the union have great experience and knowledge in the running of voluntary firefighters. I took the liberty of conducting a survey of young people with questions in a very short time: Who is the firefighter? Who's the volunteer friend? And you know what they said to me? They wrote this: he is a hero with respect and social trust, professionally trained, in full combat readiness, disciplined, stress-resistant, capable of making quick decisions, sacrificial, responsible, kind, not measuring private time. The fact that I'm in uniform in front of you today is not a coincidence, Minister, because I wear this uniform with great respect. Everyone who wears that uniform does it the same way. As a matter of fact, my fate with volunteer firefighters has been linked in 2006 and since then, their development and what will happen to them in the future is of no concern to me. I wanted to say that voluntary firefighters are a proven system, both in terms of rescue and fire fighting, as well as in terms of cooperation with other uniformed organisations and formations, as well as in terms of cooperation with local self-government units. The entire formation of volunteer firefighters is about 700,000. Members. $250,000. out of them operates in a national fire-fighting programme and has the power to participate in rescue and fire-fighting activities. Officers of the State Fire Department have 30.5,000. And now think, what if there weren't perfectly equipped, trained volunteer friends? What would the security system in our country look like? And think of something else. If all the officers had come, the volunteers would have paid a fixed salary, you simply wouldn't have been able to afford it. Therefore, they must be respected and thanked for their fruitful and self - sacrificing work. And now I'm going to go to the bill itself. I just wanted to say it's a good thing this project came along. This is a form of determining the pension gratification of PLN 200 after 20 and 25 years of documented service in the voluntary fire department. It's a pity it's not our version, which is 10 years. A similar version was also included in the citizens' project which was submitted in 2017 and on which we examined on 23 January 2020. The project was addressed to the Committee on Social Policy and the Finance Committee, not to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. There, in these two committees, this project is just stuck. The environment says that the issue of pension gratification should be included in this law, but all other issues concerning functioning and criteria should be included in the Civil Protection and Fire Protection Act. This is also due to the lack of assessment of regulations and incomplete arrangements with the environment, it constitutes interference with freedom of association. I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that at the committee meeting, the subcommittee we discussed substantively, and for the fact that he accepted my amendment, which included. concerned that each municipality had to sign a contract with all existing voluntary firefighters, which would prevent them from being liquidated or eliminated. In addition, I thank the Minister for agreeing with me in his article. 38 subcommittee reports. It will now be an article after the amendment. 39, which refers to the fact that this law should not include a provision concerning the performance of tasks for the defence of the State, civil protection, civil protection, because this provision, since TSOs and PSPs have never been military formations, has no grounds or constitutional or Tractional grounds. Civil defense and state defense are two different issues, Minister. Therefore, thank you very much for this good will. We will be very careful to follow what is happening with this bill and how it works in practice. I'm making a few amendments that I mentioned, Minister. I ask for their approval, and my formation, my group and my club will support this bill. Thank you very much. Thank you, Madame, for your substantive speech. Thank you and congratulations on your uniform and service. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u381	Mr Krzysztof Tuduj and near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u382	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to start by not expressing it directly, but warm, heartfelt thanks to all the volunteers' friends, to people who save lives, save property and do it selflessly, do it out of passion. It's a phenomenal, fantastic idea, so it's an honor to express their respect for this place. It is certainly important to regulate voluntary firefighters' activities in the act of statutory rank, and this is a positive assessment. Surely a positive aspect is this supplement, although written in quota, 200 zlotys, leaves some kind of concern with current crazy inflation. How much will it actually be worth in a while? So here's the question of whether this is definitely the right way to define this supplement. On the other hand, as regards the broad public consultation that has been invoked here, I am a little concerned about this because of this civic project which was submitted to the Sejm, which was supported by tens or hundreds of thousands of people. If the report does not mention this and this project is not discussed at all, then the question is whether the voice of the social side was certainly well heard. I have no doubt that the final criterion for whether or not he is being positively judged... I have no doubt that it is best for this project and what you take responsibility for, by submitting it here today and probably effectively voting it out in the High Sejm, that the volunteers who themselves are a very large group of citizens, and at the same time voters, will judge it by ballot boxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u383	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Zimoch on behalf of the Poland 2050 wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u384	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! 180 seconds around the project, which directly affects nearly 700,000. persons, many of whom object to this project. Not those who won battles on wagons or under the Solidarity Fund after knowing received expensive equipment during various election campaigns. The project, which was in the Seym, was not consulted in an appropriate manner. We are opposed to extending the scope of voluntary guard activities to any state guard activity that is unrelated to rescue operations. As Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 we also admit that there are some good proposals in this project. They include a rescue service, only that it is appropriate to use a civic project, which entered the Sejm a few years ago. More than 200,000 were put together. signatures under this project, which assumed that such a benefit would amount to PLN 20 per year of participation in rescue operations. In this House in January 2020, as a result of the vote - including you, Minister - the citizens' project was aimed at further work and was stuck, among others. in the Committee on Public Finance. You've introduced him, most of the Seym, to a state of sleep with a powerful dose of anesthesia. The fireman is patient, but you can't put him to sleep. Today's offer is too low - it's 200+, taxed. Circle of Poland 2050 proposes to go in the direction of volunteers given by firefighters in this civic, forgotten project and for each year confirmed participation in rescue operations to grant 50 PLN. I was recently at a firefighter's meeting in Ustianowa, Mr. Reporter. The friend Stanisław of Wojtkowa - this is the municipality of Ustrzyki Dolne - called for volunteer firefighters to have no trouble getting fired by their employer when they participate in actions or trainings, of course documented. On his behalf, but also on behalf of other firefighters, we propose that we legally provide this and additionally extend such exemptions to exercises, trainings, medical examinations. Let's treat bridesmaids and bridesmaids like blood donors. The proposed term, Minister, is, unfortunately, an obligation for the employer to do nothing. Let us bring to legal order the proposals of friend Staszka. Minister, I'm sure he can hear you, and he's asking for it. Let us also consider all good amendments, regardless of who they come from. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u385	Thank you, sir. Mr Richard Galla, Member of the Independent Committee. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u386	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! At today's meeting of the Sejm, we are considering a very important bill, which is a government bill on voluntary firefighters. I look at the project proposed by the government primarily from the point of view of practice. I am a long-standing member of the CSR unit and I know how voluntary firefighters operate and what problems they must face every day. I am also in constant contact - and for many years I have also been an active local governmentman - with local government officials who have been watching and observing the legislative process very closely as regards this law. I also had the opportunity to present this project to several annual, reporting meetings of volunteer firefighters, and I must say that most of them were words of praise, especially with regard to records that directly concern firefighters' friends. You know very well that we have repeatedly tried to deal with this in the form of a parliamentary, civil and firefighter project, and it has been very difficult. The problem was that it was never a government project. Today we have a government project and I hope that it will have a great chance for a party. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to lean a little bit on issues relating to self-government, involving the local government and its responsibility for the tasks set out in the article. 7th Municipal Government Act. It is about meeting the collective needs of the community, including fire protection, flood protection, etc. As you know, the provisions of the Act clearly indicate strong cooperation between CSR units and municipal commands, district commands. I would therefore like to ask what the impact of the municipal government - the mayor, will indeed be - and its impact. The rapporteur has already said something about this, but I would like to hear a declaration from the Minister that this responsibility and the ability of the elected authorities to influence the mayors will be so effective. Like today. Because we know that we've come to this for many years, and we have a situation where the municipal boards are mostly headed by the mayors, the mayors. This is a really good solution that allows the mayor, the mayor, to effectively manage not only the finances that are intended to support the CSR units, but also the current operation. In my municipality it is, I would say, exemplary, even on the basis of cooperation between the mayor and the city chief, and this applies to the city command in Opole. I would also like to ask more specific questions, Minister, and they concern, for example, the conclusion of agreements. A fellow bridesmaid has already said that this proposal has been accepted, that the mandatory mayor will have to sign the agreement. Okay, this is a good solution, but I would like to ask again what the effectiveness will be, what will be the ability of the mayor, the mayor personally, or even through his commandant to be appointed. Speaking of chief, Minister, I'd like to ask if he's coming from a volunteer firefighter's community, if it could be another person who would have the right predisposition to manage a voluntary firefighter's resource in a given community. Does it have to be a designated person, and it also has to be the person whose candidacy will be agreed with the competent district or city commander? I would also like to ask you about issues related to the outsourcing of CSR by the units. Of course, this is a very good solution, because in this case in a sense there will be better control by the local government. However, we know that if it is a large municipality and has several or even a dozen units, there will be an increase in costs. We also know that the financial situation of many municipalities is not the most interesting. In this connection, I would ask: can these issues be financially supported, I would say, by the state budget? Of course, it is very good that issues related to the share equivalent have been settled and that issues related to the deployment of volunteer firefighters from the workplace to the share will be regulated. On the other hand, I would also have a modest question here: Minister, can employers therefore also expect some compensation, or is this really just supposed to remain on the employers' side (the bell)? Will this cost be taken into account on their side? Thank you very much, sir. Of course, for my part, I declare my willingness to continue to cooperate and vote in favour of the government law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u387	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. First question - Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 47 people enrolled for the questions, so please stick to the time set for the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Volunteer firefighters are involved in many areas of social life: from rescue through culture, sport, education to even social assistance. The bridesmaids are wherever there is a needy man, and they always give this help, and this, you have to add, in a way that is always selfless. They are also an important player in the security of the state as well as in social integration and local integration. I also wanted to thank them warmly for all of this today. This bill, long awaited by the community of volunteer firefighters, is a good act and my district firefighters welcome the work on its adoption. That is why I am surprised at the comments about the lack of public consultation (the bell), since my firefighters say that they are very good at evaluating the whole consultation process. Thank you again for that, Minister. Thank you, sir. Minister... Mr President, thank you very much, time has passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u389	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u390	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to thank all the firefighters who are ready to provide assistance and support to local communities every day. When the siren comes out, they're ready to help us. Thank you very much. I would like to say that my club, the Civic Coalition Club, has tabled amendments so that these funds are not charity, so that it is not 200 zł special allowance, and 300 zł. The point is to talk about shortening the period of travel, respectively: after 15 years or after 20 years and 15 years. The sin of failing from two terms of office is that it is not a civil project. All the fellow Members, all the people who signed up for the civic project (the bell), thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u391	Thank you, Member. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Most of the legislative proposals in the bill concern benefits for firefighters from voluntary firefighters, which are almost 700,000. Two questions. Minister, is it possible to exempt from income tax the salvage service of years in a voluntary fire department? And how many bridesmaids and bridesmaids will receive this benefit after the law enters into force? I would very much ask for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u393	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u394	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When the volunteer firefighters, when the public reported the citizens' project, then here in this room, the right side said that it was impossible to do it, they asked how they knew where the records were. The project was six years old. Turns out it's possible. [[And what did PSL do about it?]] If you can do that, why did you wait six years? Another thing. What would happen if your first project, which you presented, was to eliminate the structures of voluntary firefighters? It's a good thing it was done... Is it good that Pawlak held a public hearing and that there was a general discussion? You're talking about Pawlak. You don't like it, but where would we be today if it wasn't for Pawlak? [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] You have to listen to the community, you have to listen to the structures, because there's wisdom, because 100 years of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards means wisdom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u395	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Come on in. [[You didn't do anything.]] [[Marshal, why don't you pay attention to how Members are interrupting?]] Because you're bothering me now, too. [[Exactly, Marshal, I couldn't talk.]] [[The Member could not speak.]] But he did. [[In spite of everything, yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u396	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, I don't think there's a single person in this room who doesn't appreciate the activities of volunteer firefighters. The bridesmaids and bridesmaids care for our safety, they are an important part of local communities. I think that's the way it's supposed to be. Support from both local authorities and the state should be at the same level of support as that provided to local communities. I am very pleased that the Law and Justice have withdrawn from these harmful ideas that would de facto bring the voluntary firefighters, bridesmaids and bridesmaids only into position, I would say, rescuers, because that is not only their role. On the other hand, I have a question about the period of 25 years of service and (the bell) the period of 25 years which guarantees entitlement. Thank you. Minister, can this period be shortened, as Poland 2050 proposes, to 15 years? This will work for the benefit of local communities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u397	Thank you, sir. Mr Richard Galla, Member of the Independent Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u398	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the project you are regulating the sit-down of wards, mayors, starosts in structures, in CSR authorities, including CSR units operating in business. And that's very good, because that's what we really had a problem with. We were looking for solutions because there were doubts about it. My question is, will we at this point also regulate certain provisions in the Act on the conduct of business by persons performing public functions? I think it has to happen. The second thing I'd like to ask you, Minister, is the fate of voluntary firefighters. As far as municipal, district, regional and regional management departments are concerned, I know that the higher they are, the more political they are, but downstairs, believe me, this structure is very well organized. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's make sure we don't destroy it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u399	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! As a volunteer firefighter with over 30 years of internship, I would like to thank all bridesmaids and bridesmaids for their daily readiness to fight fires, fight against adversity, fight for the protection of life, health, property of fellow citizens. I would also like to stress, and I have been a Member for more than 16 years, that during each term there was talk of the fact that the addition to the pension for firefighters should be given. You used to talk about all the firefighters and just being a member. It was unreasonable, because then we should all sign up for the fire department and wait. Thank you for this bill. On the other hand, I have a question: When do you provide for the start of payment of the rescue allowance (the bell) and since it is expected to be awarded the Holy Badge. Floriana? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u401	Thank you very much. Mr Waldy Dzikowski, Civic Coalition. Politely, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u402	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll quote the article. 31, because I'd like to ask you a question a little differently. Namely art. 31 reads: "Wójtów, Mayors, City Presidency, Deputy Mayors, Mayors, Treasurers, Secretaries, Managers of Organizational Units, Municipalities, Managing Persons and Members of the Authorities of Legal Persons, Other Persons issuing Administrative Decisions on behalf of the Mayor, Mayor and Councillors may be members of voluntary fire department authorities, including voluntary firefighters engaged in commercial activities using municipal property." Minister, I'd like to ask you if you've considered as a former CBA officer that this record, perhaps unintentionally, might create circumvention of anti-corruption laws. Isn't there going to be a key to a closed door with this bill that regulates the rules of operation of the mobs, mayors and presidents of different levels? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Answer that question. Again, it's not an accusation, it's a question of whether or not you do it unintentionally. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u403	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u404	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today's a good time. From this point on, we talk about volunteer fire workers and thank them for their hard work, dedication, for everything they do for local communities, and we find that their dedication deserves the utmost recognition. We're talking about a beautiful, wonderful firefighter family with 700,000. Members. I also came to sit in this family, in the volunteer fire department unit in Bysław, in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. I would like to thank the Minister very warmly - despite all the difficulties - for the many amendments that the opposition has tabled. I would also like to ask you kindly, as the representatives of my club spoke about today, to consider the possibility of granting rescue benefits after 15 years and an honorary benefit that will not be tax-free (the bell), which we are to celebrate today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u405	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, Coalition Poland. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u406	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of the arguments put forward by the applicants in order to praise this law is the issue of legitimacy issued to the volunteers by the State Fire Department. I'm sorry, but it kind of reminds me of another procedure used in another organization. It's the Polish Hunting Union. You hunters keep your relationship, and we, the power, choose your leadership. That's how it is today in a hunter's relationship. This is pure pathology. I'm going back to I.D. Is it legally correct that one organisation issues legitimacy to members of another organisation? When it comes to the benefits you use as an argument, I will ask the contrary: Do private university students benefit from other benefits and benefits than public university students? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u407	Thank you very much. Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u408	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! There is no need to explain how important, unique and historical role the TSOs play in our system. It's a world-wide phenomenon. These are people who can give a piece of themselves to another man, sacrifice themselves to serve this man. I'm sure there'd be no words and no words to appreciate our bridesmaids and our bridesmaids. This law is therefore a way of thanking them for their service, for giving their country, their citizens, their neighbours, and thanking all those who save lives and help in various difficult situations. Minister! We have a question with you, Mr Władysław Kurowski. The law uses the concept of regulation. When can we expect this regulation? Will it be consulted as widely as the law? Thank you very much on behalf of the environment for these consultations, because they were simply phenomenal. The whole community is very grateful for them. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u409	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u410	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! From this point of view, I would like to thank you for your daily service. Minister! For many years it's been an environment, a family of volunteer firefighters that we're talking about today, 700,000. people are begged for some gratification. It's about the allowance to old-age pensions and long-term pensions. Firefighters wrote civil laws. They demanded 200 PLN and 10 years of service. The Senate also introduced its draft laws. This was happening in 2017. It's been five years. [[Voice from the room: And in 2007?]] It's about to be 2022. Today 200 PLN has been devaluation. The inflation rate is almost 8%. The Prime Minister says we have a full budget, we have resources. There's a budget surplus. Minister, I appeal to you to accept (the bell) the amendments of the Civic Coalition. It is about 300 PLN and shortening the period to 15 years from next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u411	Thank you, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u412	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I continue with the subject that was taken during the examination of the report. The fireman's lifeguard, speaking the language of the bill, will be entitled to the identity of his friend here. A lifeguard with an I.D. will have the right to additional benefits e.g. in the form of relief. Every year ministers will be handed over to the Minister responsible for Home Affairs... There'll be a press release on this. I would like to ask you to consider a situation. We've got rescue firemen, and we've got those who were rescue firemen. They have acquired the right to provide rescue services. We propose that they also have the right to have this card and possibly the discount that ministers will make available. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe it'll be a few pennies of fuel discount? It would be important and important to honor the rescue firefighters who will have rescue benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u413	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u414	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about the article. 10 point 7. I'm not hiding that I missed it. I will quote this article: In order to coordinate the voluntary firefighters operating within the commune, the mayor, the mayor of the city, may appoint a Commune Fire Protection Commandant, whom he designates from among the CSR firefighters or employees under his authority. If we're calling a chief of staff from among the volunteers, that's fine, but if they're community officials who have no knowledge and experience in this area... Will the Minister draw up any guidelines that will give the governor prerogative, impose an obligation on him to appoint only fellow volunteers and candidates from voluntary firefighters so that they can make decisions and shape the activities of voluntary firefighters in the commune? Let us not hide, Minister, the laymen who have no knowledge and experience in terms of the functioning of this specific formation may harm it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u415	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u416	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today's voluntary firefighter law was long awaited and widely consulted with firefighters. In a professional way it regulates the operation of voluntary firefighters and gives them a lot of privileges. One of the privileges is an allowance for rescue firefighters. This is the pension allowance. Minister, are there estimates of how many firefighters on a national scale can receive such a pension allowance? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u417	Thank you very much, sir. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The permanent pension allowance for volunteer firefighters is of course a positive side of this project, but the amount of PLN 200 is in no way satisfactory. It should also be stressed that the project has been clearly negatively assessed by the CSR's board of directors. The Act will make the TSOs completely subordinate to the State Fire Department. The TSOs shall only be able to take rescue action if the State Fire Department has ordered action. Where the TSO, at the request of the local authority, moves for assistance e.g. in eliminating storm effects without PSP? In such cases, when saving health and life, the bridesmaids will be deprived of equivalent. The introduction of pension allowances for CSR mates obviously does not require a revision of the entire law. Such independent actions, as reported by the national authorities of the TSOs, were only close to 100,000 in 2019. If the rules proposed by the government enter into force, it is precisely the number of incidents or accidents that the volunteer firefighters will not leave. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u419	Thank you, Member. Mr Marek Rutka, Lewis Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u420	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Volunteer firefighters face a chronic lack of bridesmaids who are entitled to drive privileged vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,5 t, i.e. those with a category C driving licence. At present, the upper age limit for a member of the TSO is 65 years. In his interpellation No. 16685 of April this year. I offered to extend this age for bridesmaids with a category C licence to 67 years of age. Unfortunately, Minister, you have given me this answer, you have rejected this proposal and this appeal, among others. Firefighters from my district from Kwidzyn I met. Therefore, I propose to reconsider this appeal, because many units may be paralyzed by the lack of drivers of combat vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u421	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u422	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it is an important day that there is agreement on, above all, these rescue benefits. It was something that was very expected by the community of volunteer firefighters, not only in this, but in many previous terms. We should agree that this compromise is very good from this point of view. I wanted to congratulate you on the persistence of this environment, which I am also part of, that the proposal presented today in the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs is a completely different project than the original one. This is, I think, a very important fact too. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the article. 17... This is the commander of the State Fire Department who keeps records of volunteer firefighters who are involved in rescue operations. It seems to me that there is at least a lack of record here that it should be done in cooperation with the Commune Chief (the bell) of the voluntary fire department, because it is he who collects information from the volunteer firefighters, too, when they are involved in rescue operations. Thank you. And one more point. It's a matter of historical history, because they'll be the hardest. I was talking about three witnesses here, but there's a list of payouts in the municipal offices for participation in rescue operations. Mr... They could be a better confirmation of this participation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u423	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u424	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At first, I would like to thank Minister Marcin Wąsik for his commitment to drafting the bill... I apologise, Maciej Wąsik, for preparing the bill on voluntary firefighters and the entire Chief of State Fire Department, as well as all officers. From this point of view, I would also like to thank all my fellow firefighters from the voluntary fire department for their full dedication to the service. The CSR units in recent years have been greatly equipped with modern combat cars, as well as high-end rescue equipment. Now the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki is meeting the long-standing expectations of CSR's colleagues. They've been waiting for her for years. I would like to thank Mrs Urszula Nowogrodzka from this point of view... Nowogórska, sorry, I knew that so to say, this is where Mr Gołojuch draws my attention, I am very sorry... Mr President, finish up. ...Mr. Tomaszewski's bell... Mr... ...for a very substantive discussion, statements, Mr Galla. On the other hand, I believe that the Members of the largest opposition club were at another session of the subcommittee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u425	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u426	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The pressure makes sense, because between the law, which was the original draft of May, and this law, seems to be a gap. The flooded ditches result from the consultations we carried out, also as the Civic Coalition, very widely in the environment of CSR firefighters. We've come out of the May bill, we've reached the October bill. There we were terribly concerned that the State Fire Department had to dispose of voluntary firefighters. I am glad to hear that if it is the fact that it will also be possible to make the departure of the TSO without this PSP certificate. As a Civic Platform, we also call for a 300-gold supplement to the pension benefit, and we request that (The bell) be exempt from tax. But the question, Minister: How will firefighters, bridesmaids and bridesmaids prove their 15-, 20-, 25-year internship? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u427	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u428	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Volunteer firefighters are part of the safety of local communities. Over the years they have grown into local space like tissue, which surrounds most Polish communities. But it's not just the bridesmaids and bridesmaids that we should take care of. One of the basic elements is equipment - equipment, which is missing in many units, equipment, which today is the basis for good functioning, adequate safety and above all searching for answers, how to jump from the 20th century to the 21st century, because in many individuals today it is not visible. I would like the Minister to take into account the supply of new wagons, especially in districts such as Tucholski, Zninski, Nakielski, Inowrocławski in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, because there really is a great need for new, good equipment today. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u429	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first thing to say today is a big and heartfelt thank you to all the bridesmaids and firefighters for their selfless service. But it must also be recalled that the TSO operated for more than 100 years without any special act. To this day, it works successfully on the basis of association and fire protection laws. The question is clear: Do you need a special law to introduce pension allowances? I'm asking for a reason. When we recall the original version of this bill... We know how bad she was, how pointless she divided firefighters into better and worse, how hurtful the funding rules were. Today, this bill looks a little different thanks to the stubbornness of both the union and the opposition. But, Minister, the question is clear: What is the guarantee that the TSO will continue to be independent and self-governing and that no one will try to influence it politically? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u431	Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u432	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The last 6 years have been a very good time for voluntary firefighters - as one of the Members has already said, they have been well equipped with equipment, cars - but this is also a period when many renovations have been carried out, the modernisation of firehouses. It is very important that such an important service has the right conditions to carry out such important tasks. Many thanks, words of gratitude addressed to friends and CSR bridesmaids came from this speaker. I, too, would like to join them by expressing my heartfelt thanks. This bill, which we are now working on, is the culmination of this work. It also shows the direction of voluntary firefighters' development. This law gives concrete privileges to rescuers and gives them the right framework. Thank you, Minister, for preparing this bill. It has been said many times that firefighters (The Bell) should have pension allowances, but the Government of Law and Justice introduced this. It has also introduced a number of other facilities that will lead to the implementation of CSR tasks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u433	Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fire department is working for civil protection. This is our rescue, first aid. Its importance in the life of our society is not at all subject to discussion. The government project assumes a supplement to the pension of PLN 200 after 25 years of service. On the other hand, we have all heard about a citizens' project supported by 250,000. There were 250,000 people. signatures - which proposed a pension allowance of PLN 300 after 10 years of service in the voluntary fire department. Minister, lean on this civic project. Please take into account the amendments of the Civic Coalition, because really these 200 zlotys are small amounts of money nowadays, and 300 zlotys after 10 or at least 15 years would be very big (The Bell) and good support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u435	Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u436	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project, which precedes the demands of firefighters, fulfils the demands of firefighters, especially regarding the allowance to the pension of PLN 200, is very important. He only has one flaw: we politicize him too much here. Anyone could have introduced this supplement earlier. Nobody brought him in. Anyone could have solved some problems. No one's solved them so far. So PiS needs to be given the fact that he introduced this element, and everyone here, because the fire team in Parliament is enormous - that we all support it. It's a step forward, you just have to say it out loud. If someone rules, they can give 300, 400 and 500 zlotys. How he's gonna rule. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] We're dealing with an important matter. On the other hand, I wanted to ask, because there are preferred units in the rescue and fire system, whether this preference (the bell) will not dissipate the relationship between the other volunteer fire department units. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u437	Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u438	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I will also start by thanking all the CSR bridesmaids and friends, especially those with whom I most often come to cooperate, those from Ostrwiecki, Opatowski, Sandomierz and Kielce counties. I would like to say that there were comments on the consultation here. High Izbo, as a member of the Parliamentary Firefighters' Team, I have participated in such consultations at least several times. The consultations were attended by officers of the State Fire Service, local government officials and we as parliamentarians took part. There was a lot of attention there. The opposition says that there was no consultation, and then another Member says that the consultation was. Unify your position. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Minister how many such consultations have taken place throughout Poland, because the result of the consultation was that so many good proposals were introduced into this bill (the bell) that the Minister, that the Chief Chief wanted to listen to us. Thank you, Minister, for everything. [[Applause]] [[But this is what Mr Grzyb was talking about...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u439	Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u440	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! No one needs to be told how important firefighters from volunteer firefighters play. They're the first ones to get where they need to be. Every day they devote themselves to human tragedy, save lives and wealth. That is why they deserve respect and better conditions. Civic draft law on so-called. The pension allowance for firefighters from CSR, which was made in the previous term of the Sejm, assumed PLN 300 after 10 years of participation in rescue and fire-fighting operations, but unfortunately was stuck in the seym freezer. It is not only that in your act you offer the bridesmaids worse conditions and lower allowances, yet you call it a beneficial collection of privileges and rights of volunteers. The fireman's uniform is a symbol of reliability, valor and self - sacrificing. You do realize (the bell) that your actions are once again trying to divide your friends into better and worse. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Was there a consultation or was there not?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u441	Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. Mr Kowalski? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Kowalski has not been surprised.]] That's what happens sometimes. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honoring thousands of firefighter volunteers is a very good idea and I will support this bill, Minister. The authors of this law added volunteers from the Mountain Rescue Service to this group. This is important too, and I will also support this case. But as a sea Member, I am surprised that there are no marine rescuers in this group. There are no lifeguards to be taken care of during the summer - our children, our grandchildren, us. These people are several thousand rescuers who have been operating for many years in the Water Volunteer Emergency Service, and they are not in this bill. Why, Minister? In order to help you, I'm gonna go to the Senate and try to make the right amendment and ask you to consider it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u443	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Goloyuch, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Firefighters! Bridesmaids! The bridesmaids! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the bridesmaids and firefighters for their selfless, selfless service to local communities. The act on voluntary firefighters, contained in print No. 1765, is a good law and significantly improves the situation of volunteer firefighters, while maintaining their social character. The bill contains many regulations expected by volunteer firefighters. I thank the Minister for his work and say that there have been extensive consultations on this law. My question. Does this law distinguish firefighters from voluntary firefighters in terms of belonging to the national rescue and fire-fighting system? Is everyone treated evenly? Second question. Have solutions been introduced for drivers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This applies to over 65 years of age and the possibility of obtaining allowances free of charge. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u445	Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Volunteer firefighters are the oldest truly non-governmental, civic, self-help organization operating not only in our country. Here even there were historical references to Roman times. Because she's a citizen and she's real, she gets her strength. That's what we really thank you for, because that's what power is. But if you had listened to the representative of the PiS club, today it would have turned out that it was the PiS who invented the fire department at all, and now in his grace he allows them even to choose an organizational form. Those extras that are actually... In fact, you should come to the firefighters after asking and compensate them for their efforts and heroism. And this time: allowances - yes, but only as long as we can subdue you in every way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because everything free and civil is the enemy of the PiS. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the room: You should have listened to Mr Dyduch.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u447	Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! At first, I would like to begin by congratulating, congratulating the Government of Law and Justice for being able to find the means for such a law to function today. Everyone could've done it before. In election campaigns they promised, they didn't. Congratulations to the law and justice government. But, ladies and gentlemen, this bill confirms only very gently - it wants to honor it - this noble service, which is voluntary service in the fire department. Thank you for this service to the voluntary firefighters, and I wish that you will always be accompanied by a firefighter's call on the banners: God for glory, men for salvation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u449	Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u450	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Volunteer Fire Department Act is an important document, as it concerns volunteer firefighters who are closest to people. By saving their lives and property, they are also actively involved in the lives of local communities. I cordially greet my firefighters from the Zabartów district, especially from Zabartów. Firefighters enjoy great respect and social trust. I just wish he could see it from the PiS government. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...who disregards the opinion of those to whom the project is directly addressed. Please, I have here resolution No 59/XVII/21 of 17 November 2021 § 1: adversely assess the unconsulted government draft law on voluntary firefighters introduced in the Sejm on 9 November 2021. How can attention to the project of the entity concerned be ignored? The law duplicates many solutions so far. It reduces the independence of the fire department and, most importantly, reduces firefighters' rights to legal protection (the bell), to compensation, the right to compensation... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u451	Mr Adam Sněžek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u452	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The draft law on voluntary firefighters aroused a great deal of interest in my constituency in Podkarpacie from the moment it was sent to public consultation. At the reporting meetings of the TSOs to which I was invited, it always aroused a very lively discussion. A number of postulates were formulated, and it was said that such a bill had been pending for more than 20 years by volunteer firefighters. A large part of these demands, as I have heard, have been included in the bill discussed today. Minister! I would like to ask, repeat the question, which also fell. Under this new law, will the Association of Volunteer Fire Departments be functioning just as they have been so far? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u453	Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u454	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The aim of this law is to strengthen the role of voluntary firefighters and to honour long-term and sacrificial service. This is a very beautiful declaration, which shows, however, a lack of understanding of the realities of the rulers. Many times I have spoken to firefighters from Wielkopolska, who often have to work really in scandalous conditions. The firehouses are unrenovated. There's no running water, no clothes, no basic equipment. Their existence depends on collecting and helping people who live around. [[Member of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: This is how the municipality works.]] I am glad that today we are talking about an additional salary for firefighters with long-term service, but the problem is that if the TSO is still not perceived by the government and underfunded, then few firefighters are expected to receive such a benefit. Therefore, I expect the government to act in reality instead of symbolic gestures and devote more money to voluntary firefighters, not to medals, but to activities. [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] It is the duty of the state that people who depend on our safety do not have to work in derogatory conditions. Last sentence, Marshal. I'd like to say hello... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Oh, Franek, Franek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u455	Mr Jerzy Bielecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u456	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At first, I wanted to thank the firemen from the Janów County. I took part in a consultation, and they're very good at judging this bill. [[Applause]] Thank you so much for showing up. The consultation was very fruitful. I wanted to ask you something like that. I would like to remind you of the situation that took place 3 years ago in the Janów County, in the town of Wierzchowiska, when the cloud was hit. 80 houses were sunk. There were 120 firefighters working. It happened that during this flood, five of the firefighters arrived in cars under the firehouse, the water went back, and these cars were flooded. Until now, there has been no fund to compensate for the loss of property to the firefighters who took part in this action. Is this bill gonna do that? Will the volunteer firefighter who is going to the action (the bell) simply be able to count on some kind of compensation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u457	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u458	High Izbo! The provision of rescue services for years in CSR, PLN 200 to pension, that is, in my opinion, the implementation of the principle of social justice. I'm glad it happened. What is my concern, however, is that the conditions are high, 25 years documented in rescue operations or rescue operations. It could be at least one trip, one action, but 25 years is a long time. The diagnosis I've made shows that on a scale of one TSO it's going to affect one person, two, three, four, several people today. Not much. I wanted to ask how many people in the country will be entitled to this benefit. At the same time, I would like to note that there is another group that worked for God to pay, this is a group of chiefs. I trust that you will also be willing, when such a project appears, to appreciate their (The Bell) commitment to social work for God pay. [[Applause]] [[The Chiefs have the money.]] [[Since when?]] [[For a long time.]] [[This is a diet for participating in the session.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] [[700 PLN.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u459	Mr Dariusz Stefaniuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u460	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Many voices of thanks have been cast here, and I am also joining them. Thank you very much, Minister, for this bill. There were also many voices of thanks to bridesmaids and firefighters. I think we all have them in our hearts because we see... I am from the district of Bialski, Parczewski, Radzyński, there at the border of Belarus also firefighters help our territorial defence troops, soldiers. That's why I wanted to ask you a question. Could the Minister say how much was spent under the rule of law and justice over the last six years on TSOs and how much was spent under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. Were there allowances in those governments? Was such a bill processed at the time? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u461	Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u462	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Everyone, I think we're sitting here, we appreciate the civic attitude of volunteer firefighters. After all, every day we observe their sacrifice, their volunteering, their service to another man. Therefore, Art. 16, which we discussed at the committee meeting and are still discussing on pension allowances for volunteer firefighters, still requires work and consensus. also with the social side. Let me just remind you that we've been proceding... In fact, citizens' printing has been received, the Senate's draft laws have also been introduced and, at the same time, it is necessary and necessary to reach this agreement with the social side, which I ask very much. At the same time, I ask that we lean on the honorary service and exempt (Ring) from income tax this supplement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u463	Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u464	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Can you effectively rule, can you be effective in action? You can, High Izbo, you just have to want. Is it possible to work well together to improve safety? all of us, Poles, with volunteer firefighters, and in terms of the ministry's relationship, the resort - voluntary firefighters or the State Firefighters - voluntary firefighters? You can, you just have to want and effectively implement it. Can we finally prepare for a broad consultation of the good, including all the expected proposals for a bill that we are proceeding in the High House today? You can, you just have to want. On behalf of the firefighters of Łódź land, thank you, Minister, for this bill. I also thank you for all the activities that have supported volunteer firefighters since 2016 during the two rule of law and justice. Please tell us if there has been an increase in CSR expenditure from 2015 (the bell) to this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u465	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to express my appreciation, appreciation and gratitude to all firefighters, especially volunteers. You're doing an extremely beautiful job, you're doing a beautiful service, because the fact that you're helping another person is the most beautiful thing. I also address these words of thanks to local government officials, to the wojites and mayors, who in many cases have taken on a burden and supported voluntary firefighters. There is no doubt that financial provision is a good solution today, and that is beyond political divisions. It is important to be able to lean on this and consider whether this amount should not be slightly increased in the face of such high inflation. One last thing. Let us remember that voluntary firefighters retain their independence and their subjectivity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u467	Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u468	Even with a lot of patience, some of the opposition Members are not able to listen calmly. [[Applause]] You have ruled in different configurations for 25 years and this postulate has been appearing for a long time. [[Voice from the room: What 25 years?]] What did you do? Nothing. And now that the Government of Law and Justice is introducing a pension allowance, it's too late for you, too little -- there was a civic project -- too long internship, etc., etc. Volunteer firefighters perform a very important function in our security system. About every minute somewhere in Poland they or state firefighters leave for events, not only to put out fires. Today, up to 25% of the action is to put out fires, and the rest is to deal with other local threats. I really have great respect for firefighters. Such respect must be expressed not only by word but also by action, as has been done by the Government of Law and Justice for six years, not by empty declarations, as the opposition does, and especially by some of its Members who could do something good and did not. [[Applause]] Including PSL, which was often in these political compositions in power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u469	Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u470	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I congratulate and thank all the brothers of the firefighter, the bridesmaids and the bridesmaids of the voluntary firefighters. They're always where they need to be, they're always close to the local community, they're helping, they're helping, they're helping, they're saving things. This direction, to be an accessory to firefighters volunteer firefighters, is very good. It's just a pity that this supplement is so small, it's a pity that after 25 years, and it's a pity that you didn't agree to our amendments, which is faster and more. But it's okay. [[Voice from the hall: Because your...]] Please don't disturb me. I have a question. I would like to ask the Minister whether the budget provides for an increase in funds for improving the emergency and fire-fighting equipment... [[Voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus Mary.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Where was the Member?]] [[Voice from the room: Where have you been?]] ...because as for this case, which Mr Bielecki referred to in the town of Wierzchowiska, there, ladies and gentlemen, there in the rescue operation were vehicles which are 30 years old and more, those which are already missing components. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the hall: As many cars as we buy...]] Please, Minister, to... Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice. ...balance... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u471	Member, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u472	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bridesmaids and bridesmaids of the Kalisk-Leszczyński Voivodeship thank you for a series of deep substantive consultations, because they are aware that it was during these consultations that the government draft law was formed. That's one thing. Second. The bridesmaids and bridesmaids thank you for the resources they receive for their activities and equipment. But the bridesmaids and bridesmaids of the Kalisk-Leszczyński district also pointed out the passiveness of our predecessors, who today, having a mouth full of clichés, so as not to say demagogy, raise the bar solely for political reasons, probably without understanding the meaning of the government bill... [[You don't understand.]] ...about to improve the existence of firefighters, bridesmaids and CSR friends. Minister! I have a question. Please tell us what was the scale of the PO-PSL grants for CSR units and how many were these public consultations. I myself participated in several dozen public consultations in the constituency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u473	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u474	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! First of all, I would like to pay my respects to all volunteers, firefighters working in volunteer firefighters. I have a question for the Minister. Minister! How many volunteer firefighters will receive a pension allowance next year? How many, exactly? Why do I ask? Because there's a very sharp criterion here: 25 years. For a firefighter to be active and to leave for firefighters and others, he must first be extremely fit and healthy. Why has such a long period been adopted, and how many volunteer firefighters will meet this screwed-up criterion? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u475	Mr Edward Sulphur, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u476	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This year we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of the Association of Volunteer Fire Guards, which was founded when all the firefighters' movements united after the partition period. I think that this law is such a historical document, a historical contribution, which - as we all stress here - expresses in a sense our pride in Poland with the achievements of people who have been engaged in the development of this movement for years. There was a fire in New White this summer. I must say that as president of the Voivodeship in Małopolska, I felt great pride in seeing firefighters who took part in the action with great commitment. Nobody asked for money, and it's worth saying it in this discussion. Firefighters never ask, but the important thing is that we appreciate their efforts, their commitment and that today this bill is. I just wanted to ask if there's gonna be a fire like this... Do we solve the issue (the bell) of having firefighters for such actions after the fire... Mrs Mirosława Nykiel. ...when you have to clean for 2 weeks, e.g. A firefighter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u477	Please, Mrs Mirosława Nykiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u478	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to express my appreciation and thanks to all the bridesmaids and fellow volunteer firefighters of 700,000. Firefighters' families. But let me direct special words of thanks and appreciation to volunteers firefighters from Bielska-Biała, Żywiec, Cieszyński County and Pszczyna. I ask the Minister: Why did you make people so deserved wait six years? Because under the civil project - you frozen it for 6 years - 250,000 signed. citizens. [[You didn't do anything.]] Why did you keep them waiting so long? And now that you're giving them this supplement, you've reduced it in an age of crazy inflation and expensive from 300 to 200 zlotys, you've extended the period of entitlement to such an allowance. Why did you do it? And why didn't you consult? This is not due to the words of the Members of the opposition (the bell), but to the resolution of the firefighters. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u479	Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u480	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Madame, this is a very good question. Why, even though there have been Members of the Polish People's Party for almost 25 years, have firefighters been waiting for this bill for so long? I mean, you guys had a lively influence. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing this project, we are talking about the pension allowance, but this provision of the Act also talks about bonuses, about some kind of relief package for firefighters' volunteers. I would like to ask, Minister, what will this package include, what extent of these reliefs, what spheres of life and how much is it calculated? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u481	Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u482	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It's okay to thank all of these 17 grand. The bridesmaids' volunteers... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Seven hundred thousand.]] 700. I'm sorry. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We would like to thank all the bridesmaids and bridesmaids of voluntary firefighters, me personally OS in Czerńc, in Wierzbów Śląska, where volunteers have recently put out a fire, for the great contribution of work, often risking their lives, and for many actions to save lives on the roads. I also wanted to remind you that this bill should bring us all together. This pension allowance should be bigger - we all know it. Consultations should be better. I would also like to say that each of the firefighters participating in 2010 received a supplement of PLN 1000 - in our time. In your time, there was a parliamentary project which was not adopted in 2007. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Jan Dziedziczak, Law and Justice. The civic project has been waiting since 2017, but... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u483	Mr President, you have run out of time. Mr... There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u484	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! God for glory, people for salvation - a great motto of the great movement of volunteer firefighters present more than a century on Polish lands, a great national treasure. Finally, the Polish government took care of firefighters from voluntary firefighters, friends from voluntary firefighters. For 25 years of government, groups such as PSL, Platform, SLD have done nothing for voluntary firefighters, or at least nothing on such a scale. Waldemar Pawlak was Prime Minister twice, he was Deputy Prime Minister - no specifics. And now you're attacking a bill that's really helping the CSR buddies. And it's not just retirement, it's a whole package of facilities. I have participated in many consultations myself, I have participated in consultations with Minister Wąsik in the Kalisz district. There were a number of conversations in the district of Rawicki, Leszyn, Kościan, Gostyński. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There was a lot of consultation. It really is a great bill and finally real help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u485	Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u486	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! OSP White, Prudnicki district, Opole Voivodeship, 18 active volunteer firefighters with the support of the partyless mayor Mr Edward Plicko and the Polish government. This unit is exemplary in fulfilling its tasks, including being part of a national rescue aid system. I want to make it clear that the Government of the United Right has done a lot and is doing a lot for volunteer firefighters. I would like to thank Deputy Minister Maciej Wąsik and, above all, Minister Mariusz Kaminski, but also Zbigniew Ziobro and Deputy Minister Marcin Romanowski, who also support the Justice Fund in an effective way so that voluntary firefighters over political divisions save our lives and health. A great respect for all bridesmaids and bridesmaids. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u487	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Wąsik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u488	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for this debate, an interesting one, which gives me a lot. I think I will be able to say a few sentences here, but before I thank everyone for the debate, I would particularly like to thank the parliamentary volunteer fire team, Zbyszk Chmielowiec, Wald Andzel, Robert Telus and other members. I think those people I mentioned gave me personal support at every stage that this bill was being made. Thank you very much, Zbyszek, because I see you're in the O.R. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...and I really don't know if I'd have had enough strength if it wasn't for your support, so good and from the beginning. [[Applause]] I was going to say that this is a bill that was highly consulted. These consultation meetings were probably over 400, I can't count them all, but I'm sure there was at least one meeting in every county. I have been on many of them, there have also been my colleagues from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, former members of the parliamentary team who have worked extremely hard, and there have also been commanders of the State Fire Department. And, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the idea for this bill was that during the consultation this law should be forged so that we could ask the firefighters what is good for them, what they want and what should be abandoned. And so we did. Today I am amazed to hear certain opinions of people who seem to have no idea what they are saying. Because if Mrs Skowrońska complains that, instead of 200 PLN, there should be 300 PLN or instead of 25 years, as we have proposed, there should be 15, then I ask, after all, you were the head of the CSR team for many years... [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] ...how many laws have you set in this regard. [[Applause]] [[Voice in the O.R.: Zero.]] [[Voice from the room: Zero set.]] I would like to say, Madame, that at the time you were working on raising the retirement age. Raising the retirement age. And the paradox is that the best proposals come when you're in opposition, and only then do you want to give something to people, because if you rule, then unfortunately nothing - you take away. If you had at least consulted the Act on increasing the retirement age in 1/10, just as we consulted the Act on TSOs, [[Applause]] Then you'll understand the way you've been going. But it's a trip to the side. Ladies and gentlemen! The main idea for this bill is to give pension allowances to volunteers who for many years altruistically, as volunteers, worked for the local community, saved the lives and health of others, devoted their time, threw work in the field to put out a barn in the neighboring village. To give them the retirement allowances they've always wanted, and many authorities have promised them. If we did a conscience check, we'd know perfectly well that these retirement allowances have been promised to volunteer firefighters for probably 30 years. Finally, it is time to put this supplement into the pension system. This is the most important thing. We're counting on 65 grand. Firefighters will receive this supplement within a year. He will count from 1 January, even if the application is submitted in May, in June, the firefighters have 9 months to do so. We are preparing a system for this - certainly there will be huge support for district commands, PSPs - so that information about the possibility of applying for such an allowance for retirement can reach firefighters who have worked for the local community for many, many years. I would like to stress that we are aware that many of the activities of the TSOs have not been documented for many years, and that is why we have considered that since there has been documentation in the PSP since 2012, it will be possible to document its previous actions in favour of the local community on the basis of a statement supported by a testimony from three witnesses. Once a year, it's enough to be in action to have a year of up to 25 years in order to receive a pension allowance. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to emphasise one very important thing. The government appreciates volunteer firefighters very much. We are aware that this fire protection system, but also crisis management, flood aid would not have been as good if it had not been for the determination of many thousands of firefighters, [[Applause]] A lot of thousands of volunteers. Therefore, as the Government of Law and Justice, we have doubled funding for TSOs. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] In 2012, the Council The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration transferred PLN 86 million to the CSR. In 2021 there was PLN 217 million for TSOs. [[Applause]] As soon as we took power, Jarosław Zieliński, who was responsible for these matters, began to increase his funding from year to year. This is also due to Jarek Zieliński. Thank you, Jarku, for this job. [[Applause]] Let me put it this way: I'm talking to volunteer firefighters. During this consultation, I also spoke. They often say, "Listen, we've had enough of the equipment, but we need young people, we need fresh blood. And this bill is supposed to give OSP an injection of fresh blood. So that the TSO is a road to professional development, so that a young man can make a C-category driver's license, which is expensive - the PSP will finance his driver's license. He will, of course, be obliged to participate in the shares, sign the relevant commitment and contract. This is a step forward. All specialized trainings will be provided for TSOs free of charge by PSP. Open road from rescuer, rescuer fireman OSP to, later, firefighter at PSP. This is the career path - important. Through the TSO it is easier to enter the PSP, this is a very important element of this law. Ladies and gentlemen! I've heard a lot of critical voices from this side of the room. Not all of them, but Mrs Kozłowska, Mrs Navel. Dear Member, at the committee's meeting this law was adopted by 27 votes to 0, [[Applause]] Do I hear criticism here? If you think this is a bad bill, then put it in the vote, vote against it. Go ahead, brave. Tell that to your firemen that you voted against. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill is what I think the TSOs have been waiting for a long time. At least that's what the consultation says. We don't interfere with what a relationship does. The union goes its own way and has every right to do so, has its own structures. We don't want to add or take them. It is an independent structure. Such questions have been raised, so I would stress that we will not interfere in any way. I also stress - for example, Mr Galla asked - that the governor knows best who should be the municipal commander of the TSOs. It's the responsibility of the uncle to take a fireman or an ex-fireman. Because it's the uncle who's in charge of fire protection in the commune, and he'll know exactly how to do it. Ladies and gentlemen! It's pretty late. I've been in the Seym for hours. 9, I have been attending committee meetings all the time, and I would like to say this: I would like to thank all the Members who have been very active and creative in committee meetings, because these debates were good, the discussions were good. Of course, Paul Hreniak handled matters in the subcommittee. Paul, thank you so much for your hard work yesterday. [[Applause]] I am convinced that, as I told Mr Tomaszewski at a public hearing, the Sejm will adopt this law almost unanimously. I ask you to do so because I think we owe it to the CSR community. If that's the case, don't worry, the government will try to make this supplement higher. It is indexed just like pensions, i.e. it is protected from inflation. We are aware that we need to introduce this into the system and start a process so that it can eventually be developed. Thank you very much for all your amendments. We will certainly analyze them, and we will approach them only in substance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u489	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, corrigendum and clarification of her role in committee or in the CSR team. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u490	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's worth it to have the real words out of this bleacher. Thus, as regards the pension allowance for firefighters: 2005 - the prepared parliamentary project rejected, not approved, 2007 - who was in charge then? State. A parliamentary project has been prepared, the state has not introduced it. Year 2016, year 2017 - the project was submitted... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the Chamber: What about from 2008 to 2015?]] I'll tell you what. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'll tell you what. I don't know if you'll make it. Thus, during this period there was a complex civic project. We were... [[Voice from the room: Time is almost up.]] ...for his proceding. He's been lying there for four years, despite everything you've cared about, he hasn't been procedated. [[Voice from the hall: What about your time?]] Period from 2008 to 2015 [[♪ The bell ♪]] - to increase resources... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Paweł Hreniak, has the floor. You're welcome. Why are you bothering me? Thank you, Member. Marshal, may I finish? During this period, we've put together more... We've increased... No, you can't. You had a minute. You're welcome, sir. Madam, you have already exhausted your correction time. Member, you can't hear me. ...because then we worked in a band and it was okay, and today you're trying to share... [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u491	Mr Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u492	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As rapporteur, I would like to stress that we are at a historic moment. For 32 years, there has been an increase in the need to pass a law on voluntary firefighters, much has been said about it, but you have never really moved on - I am talking about opposition - to actions. Today we are at a historic moment, we are very close to adopting this extremely important environmental law on voluntary firefighters. It is with great regret that I have to say after listening to this debate that many parliamentarians, unfortunately mostly representing the Civic Coalition, said something quite different during the work of the Permanent Committee for the Development and Promotion of Volunteer Firefighters, something quite different was said in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and something quite different, standing here in front of the High Chamber. Let me remind you that Małgorzata Płępek, who spoke on behalf of the Civic Coalition, said that this law was, on behalf of the Civic Coalition, an attempt on the independence of the voluntary fire department. At the same time, on the same day, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek and her colleagues in the subcommittee and later in the committee voted in favour of this law. All of you were in favour of this bill. Tell me when you're telling the truth when you're showing a real face. When you approach this law with such openness and truth, or now when we are investigating it in the High House? Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, I would like to thank all those who took the floor who were looking for the right solutions for this bill so that I could work it out well. And to all those who behave in different ways in different situations, I would like to wish that, however, the state behaved in a way that is expected by the firefighters' friends. For I will remind you that the headquarters of the voluntary fire brigade are not all fire buddies. This has been mentioned many times. I also attended meetings, consultations. The firefighters are expecting this bill. I dare say that the board of directors did not consult their positions with the pits - the firemen's friends. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u493	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u494	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to express my support for the draft law on voluntary firefighters. The proposed solutions will serve to strengthen the position of voluntary firefighters and are good for volunteer firefighters. I would like to ask a question relating to such a long-awaited solution, which assumes that a firefighter's volunteer firefighter will be entitled to a rescue service in the fire rescue units of the volunteer firefighters. No tax or social security contributions will be paid on the amount of the benefit. In the case of a firefighter, the TSO will provide a benefit of PLN 200 for service of 25 years for men and 20 years for women. It's an active member of the TSO. The benefit will also be granted after the age of 65 for men and 60 for women. How many firemen will this witness cover? What's the percentage of all volunteer firefighters? What will the financial dimension of this benefit be in the years to come? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u495	In view of the fact that a draft amendment had already been tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the urgent draft government law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service between 2022 and 2025 and on the amendment of the Law on Police and certain other laws, print No 1808. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm Marshals of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee on the urgent draft law establishing the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the State Protection Service between 2022 and 2025 and the amendment of the Law on Police and certain other laws (prints No. 1789 and 1808). I ask Mr Jarosław Zieliński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u496	Dear Marshal, High Seym! The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs at today's meeting, on 1 December 2021, carried out the first reading of the Government's draft law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service for the period 2022-2025 and on the amendment of the Police Act and certain other laws. The bill is contained in the Seym printing no. 1789. At the committee meeting there was also an exhaustive, long discussion of the urgent government project presented, and then the project was examined in detail and the vote on its adoption took place at the end. Although the discussion was very lively and there were various discussions and even controversial topics, in the vote all committee members in the number 27 supported the bill. The vote resulted in 27 votes in favour, no abstentions and no votes against. During the committee's decision, provisions were added which were not included in the original submission by means of amendments. The two basic amendments were accepted, quite extensive. 1. The amendment also concerns the inclusion of the Prison Service modernisation programme, also for 2022 and 2025. Prison Service, as we know, is under the authority of the Minister of Justice. 2. The amendment concerns the establishment of a medal for the name of the horses. Police Andrzej Struja and includes related provisions, especially on an increase of 1% the basis for the pension for the award of this medal. The bill deals with several areas, mainly construction investments, the purchase of equipment for formations supervised by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and subordinate to him in the field of transport equipment, arms, special technology, IT and communication, the purchase of personal and protective equipment of officers, the strengthening of permanent officers, the strengthening of the incentive system for the remuneration of officers by increasing the multiple of the basic amount which represents the average salary of officers, the differentiation of the structure and size of the salaries of officers and the increase of the remuneration of the staff of the organizational units of the formation. A large part of the measures provided for under the programme that is being implemented by the Act will be allocated to personal matters, the increase in the number of posts, the increase in the salaries and salaries of officials and employees. It was a primal assumption, made from the very beginning or disbanded. This need arose at a time when the previous programme of modernization of uniformed services - Police, State Fire Service, was being implemented, the programme also concerned voluntary firefighters, Border Guard, State Security Service, the former BOR, for the years 2017-2020. We even said it would be a law on the development of uniformed services. Finally, the title of this law was: the establishment of a modernisation programme, like the previous two laws, which I will say in a moment if I can. A large proportion of the measures provided for in this programme concern what I am talking about, namely personal matters, salaries, salaries and an increase in the number of posts. As far as employment is concerned, the Act provides for an increase in the number of police posts by 5600 and 750 posts for the State Fire and Border Guard. It involves different needs of formation, but when it comes to the police, among other things. These posts - or maybe even one of the most important goals and reasons - are needed to re-enact the subsequent police stations that have been under the rule of our predecessors, the PO-PSL coalition, massively eliminated. I'll remind you, that's when more than half the police stations were closed down, with more than 800 being less than 400. So far, about 150 stations have been recreated, 250 more are waiting for reactivation, for reconstructing, new facilities have to be built in many places, but most of all jobs are needed, you need officers who will serve these stations. As regards the allocation of quotas, ladies and gentlemen, they appear briefly as follows. The total amount of the modernisation programme is 10 030 757 thousand. zł. From this, the police are to receive 6 429 294 thousand. PLN, Border Guard - 1 439 656 thousand, State Fire Department - 1 947 886 thousand, State Security Service - 213 921 thousand. In terms of the breakdown of expenditure for which these funds are intended, construction investments in all services together, together, are to absorb the amount of PLN 2384 million - I can already simplify these endings, also important, because they are still thousands of zlotys, but in order to present it more quickly, I will focus on billions or millions of zlotys, mainly these large sums - transport equipment is the amount of PLN 918 million, weapons and special technology - PLN 238 million, computer and communication equipment - PLN 635 million, personal and protective equipment of officers - PLN 188 million, almost 189 million, staff reinforcement of officials - PLN 1676 million, reinforcement of the incentive system of payment of officers - PLN 3370 million, increase of the salaries of employees of the organizational units, i.e. civil workers - PLN 619 028 thousand. zł. This latter position, on the basis of a one-time increase, on average or average, more correctly, on the monthly salary, raised the most discussion during the committee meeting, because the representatives of the trade unions of the uniformed uniformed formations asked for these increases to be higher, indicating that they are too low, even very low salaries, I apologise, wages, because the salaries concern officials, the remuneration of civil servants, that they often need to be increased even after the minimum wage is increased to the minimum wage which is introduced for the next year throughout the employment sphere. Many Members have also spoken on this subject in the same spirit that these salaries need to be increased much more than that provided for under this amount. Minister Maciej Wąsik, who represented the government during the work on this law, promised to be open in further search for opportunities to make these amounts of salary increases higher. I think that there will be further work and consultation, talks between trade unions and the Ministry, and we hope that in one way or another this problem will be more effective in the future, in a sustainable and possibly progressive way. Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe a little bit more historical, because this is the third modernisation program. The first one came from 2007 and brought the amount of PLN 6301 million for these four MMA formations. Then, during the 8-year rule of the PO-PSL coalition, this program ended. It ended later than it should, because it was adopted for the years 2007-2009, our successors extended it for the following years, but reduced the amount by PLN 474 million, so there was less money and longer implementation time. It was then clear and clear that it was necessary to continue this program after it was completed. Our club, the Club of Law and Justice, then prepared and submitted to the marshal's staff an appropriate project of a new modernisation program, but unfortunately he did not even have a parliamentary debate, was not just put into session. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, you are without a mask.]] In the next term of office, we did not submit this project, knowing that it would be the same fate as in the first term of the PO-PSL government. When Law and Justice won the parliamentary elections, according to our programme, our group, we introduced the second modernisation step, i.e. the Modernization Act for the years 2017 and 2020 with the amount of PLN 9200 million for the four formations of the MMA. The implementation of this programme ended in 2020. This programme, the third programme, the third modernisation step, covers, as I have already said, the years 2022 to 2025 and is therefore also a four-year programme with the amount of PLN 10 billion already mentioned. This amount is large, it can be said, and also extremely significant, because it as a whole will strengthen the budgetary expenditure for the MMSWiA formation. Previous programs contained some proportions of so-called. own resources and so-called external measures. Here the entire amount will increase these annual budgets in part 42 or in other parts - in part 85. - which support the expenditure of uniformed services subordinate to and supervised by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. Ladies and gentlemen! It seems, or does not seem, I am convinced and this is the conviction of the committee that this project is very expected, very much needed and very important. I am pleased that, despite the discussion, the various questions and doubts, the whole committee unanimously supported this proposal in the vote after the additions that I have already mentioned, so it will actually deal with five services, because apart from the services of the Ministry of Prison Services as a subordinate Minister of Justice with a separate amount for this service. I didn't mention that amount anymore, but she's obviously included in this amendment. And it's a significant amount, because it's 1,865 130 thousand. PLN for the Prison Service for these 4 years, also with a breakdown, of course, which the law regulates, for individual years and for individual types of expenditure for this service. I am convinced that the implementation of this third modernisation programme will increase opportunities, further improve the state of the security services. As a result, in view of the various threats we face in the modern world, we are dealing with them in Poland, and these borders, internal and external, our services will be able to ensure optimally, at the highest level, the security of the state and citizens. This is what this modernization is meant to do. By improving the condition of the services, of course, it leads to an increase in the safety of Poland and Poles, and this is really the value that should be given due attention and for which this support should be given, is the financial and organisational reinforcement that this law brings. Thank you very much. Of course, as rapporteur, I have passed my report with some historical points, but I think that this refresh will be useful for you to be better able to discuss at the second reading of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u497	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Filip Kaczyński, First Member, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u498	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the draft law establishing the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service between 2022 and 2025, and on amending the Police Act and certain other laws, printing No. 1789. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill under review assumes that in the perspective of 4 years over PLN 10 billion will be allocated to the programme of modernisation of services. The implementation of the programme is intended to ensure further modernisation of the Police, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service in order to create conditions conducive to their statutory tasks by modernising infrastructure, equipment and equipment. This programme also aims to increase the number of posts and strengthen the incentive system for the remuneration of officials and to increase the remuneration of the staff of organisational units. After two existing service modernisation programmes, it is necessary to continue to implement construction investments, as well as to apply the latest solutions in the area of equipment for transport, weapons and special technology, IT and communication, personal and protective equipment of officers. The need to modernise services in this area there is no need to convince anyone, given the current situation on the Polish-Belarusian border. Another important area of modernisation will be the strengthening of human capital, mainly in terms of substantially increasing motivation, attractiveness, security of service and work, and improving the level of training and qualifications of civil servants and workers by increasing salaries and salaries. The programme also envisages an increase in the development of training, including in particular police schools, in the further modernisation of the teaching and training base and in the improvement of the level and efficiency of education. One of the main objectives of the programme is to continue the process of reactivating the police stations that were wound up in 2008. In total, 477 stations were liquidated during the PO-PSL coalition. The programme will seek to restore or set up 250 police stations. As a reminder, ladies and gentlemen, in the years 2016 and 2020 a total of 132 police stations were reconstructed or established within the framework of the previous multiannual programme. In the field of construction investments modernising the State Fire Department, a total of 120 investment tasks consisting of the construction of 53 guards and the modernization and reconstruction of 67 existing buildings were planned. In addition, it is planned to purchase transport equipment for the operational units of the State Fire Department, necessary to maintain the appropriate operational readiness of the formation. The priority task of modernising the Border Guard is to strengthen the border of the Eastern Republic of Poland, which is at the same time the border of the European Union, by modernising the automated surveillance radar system and building a perimetric border protection system. The contested bill also establishes the.Programme for the modernisation of the Prison Service in the years 2022-2025. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to say that on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I declare my support for this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u499	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u500	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The adoption of modernization programmes for services has brought together an atmosphere of consensus. It's the third such multi-annual program. The political scene in this matter was linked to the sense of the need to improve the functioning of services key to the internal security of the state. Despite the passing of years and spending already several billions, the need still exists and even increases, as in the case of the Border Guard. I would like to say on behalf of the Civic Coalition: we support without comment. I'd like to say so, but unfortunately we have to make comments. We will support the project, but the comments will be very bitter. Surprisingly, we assumed that this obvious and already trained project, because it is not the first such programme, will be conducted in the normal way, and it was brought as an urgent presentation. Why is that? I'm sure time's gone somewhere. We would need this time to deal with the component of this law, which is the amendment of the Police Act. It contains such a sensitive element of education and promotion in the police. After all, we remember the dramatic circumstances of the death of Igor Stachowiak, Dmytra Nikiforenko, Łukasz Łagiewka and Bartosz Sokołowski - the latest events of August this year. In these cases, the element which was obvious, also at committee meetings, was clearly revealed, was insufficient training of officers. That's the problem we know about. The NIK report says it. Training and professional improvement of staff under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I will quote the key passage: NIK draws attention to the lack, in particular, of the Police and the Service for the Protection of your coherent training systems linked to the professional development path of officers, enabling them to improve their skills and skills continuously. We wanted to discuss this, but it was not possible at the committee meeting. There was no time and willingness to answer the question of what issues will be solved. Of course, there are things that we accept very positively, such as. return to the four-level system of obtaining the professional qualifications necessary for appointment or appointment to official posts, including basic vocational training, under-office training, aspirant training, officer training or studies at the Szczytno University of Police. Unfortunately, there's a big downside, and that's what I want to say right now. The project does not address the sound issue of underfinancing, it can be said: the embarrassing wages of civil workers. These salaries are at such a level, ladies and gentlemen, that at the beginning of next year as much as 50% These workers will have to raise wages to the minimum wage, up to PLN 3010. The proposed system for raising wages including this law, but also including the budget law, will not be enough. Why? Because of the base. If we're counting on someone's base amount, $3,000. And we're going to raise him 4.4% of the budget bill plus what the modernization bill gives him, it's gonna be 3,500 zlotys, even not. If we raise someone from the base amount of 6,000. zł, it is known that there will be much more. This problem will not be resolved, and it must be resolved, because that should be the state's commitment to those who work for our security. 1/5 of the police staff are civilian workers. And another thing that surprised us is these amendments. The Legislative Office has made it clear that they are non-constitutional. We are not questioning the need for a modernization program for the prison guard. By the way, in the amendment it is 10 years old, not four years old, and covers PLN 3.5 billion. We found out that such an amendment existed at the moment when work began in committee and, in principle, during the procession. You don't do that, it's a bad way to bring essentials. It cannot be that the majority advantage (the bell) allows to disregard the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, the opinion of the legislators. It's a bad practice, we'll always protest against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u501	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wiesław Szczepański will speak on behalf of the Left Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u502	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I have the honour to present to the High House our position on the government draft law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the State Protection Service in the years 2022-2025 and on the amendment of the Police Act and certain other laws. I just wanted to say that this bill will change its name after adoption of the amendment that was made at the committee meeting. And I wanted to say, before I refer to the bill, that my club will support this bill, although we have doubts about how to proceed over the bill and make amendments that are non-constitutional. Putting in this Prison Service bill, which is not under the authority of the Minister of the Interior, and, I say, depreciating this award, which is supposed to be for police officers... We thought it was supposed to be in a separate bill, but not in the case of uniformed services. The operation of uniformed services under the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration... For the next edition of the modernisation program, this bill, Minister, the uniformed services have been waiting for over a year. And because of the pandemic, they didn't live to see it. It is only now that the Ministry has presented this programme, which is a programme for 4 years and provides for the transfer of more than 10 billion simply to all these services. Conditions are to be created to facilitate the implementation of their statutory tasks, to modernise and, at the same time, to increase the employment opportunities of police officers. The police will receive a total of PLN 6.4 billion during the duration of the programme, the Border Guard - over 1.4 billion, the State Fire Department - less than 2 billion, and the State Protection Service - less than 214 million. I'm not going to address the prison service issue. The services under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also have a permanent reinforcement. According to this program, in the case of the police, there are 5,600 new jobs. The Border Guard, which today really needs support because of what is happening at the Polish-Belarusian border, will increase by 750 jobs within 4 years. The fire department will also be able to employ 750 more workers, while there will be no increase in the number of posts in the State Protection Service. At the same time, I would like to say that the modernisation programme, in addition to the increase in working conditions and increases, also provides, let's say, a clear and clear possibility of investment, which will simply be implemented, because it will be approx. 250 new stations. The police are looking for it. I have received several letters myself, in which the municipalities ask me to set up such posts. PSP will build and modernise guards and buy a total of 40 cars with fire ladders. At the same time, further perimetric protection systems are to be provided to the Border Guard. A major revolution awaits the police education system and the professional development path of the officers of this formation. The Act specifies, among other things, the law. The professional qualifications of a police officer have also been specified as basic, sub-officer, aspirant, officer rank and qualifications that a police officer should have in order to occupy specific positions. So there's a possibility of another promotion. At the same time, the reorganization will pass through the Central Police Crime Laboratory. Currently, the primary task of CLKP is to carry out research, training and development work on forensics. However, after the changes, the main action of CLKP will primarily focus on tasks supporting the police. As I said, our club will support this bill, but we will also address the issue of civil servants and a few sentences will be said by Mr Szopiński. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u503	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński will use the second part of the time left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u504	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Recently, many of us parliamentarians have received letters from civil police personnel. In these letters we read that among others.: Many of us have access to classified information, top secret information, or police databases, so the more the salaries on such posts should not be so low. Sometimes a civilian sits in a desk with a uniform who works half the time in the formation and makes more than twice as much money. Well, my club is putting an amendment on the hands of the Marshal, according to which these employees are to receive $1,000. zł raises, while the allocation of these expenditures does not change. Secondly, I appeal to the Minister: Minister! Convince the Members of the PiS. who are absent at this point, because I understand that they are discussing Mr. Masha's case at the moment, so that tomorrow at hours. 8 they supported our amendment, especially if you do not want to change the issue of the modernisation plan. The cost of amendment of the left club is PLN 285 million. We pointed out the source here (the bell), we pointed out who to take so that we could give it to the civilian police. And that's what I'm calling for.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u505	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Biernacki on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u506	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I present my position on the draft law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire and the State Security Service in the years 2022-2025 and on the amendment of the Police Act. Today's project covers two quite remote areas. Both are very important, but I will admit that the combination of an important issue, which is undoubtedly a change in the functioning of the KGP Central Criminal Laboratory, with a fundamental modernization program for services makes a bit of a strange impression. It seems that a bit has been tried to force the notification of the government modernisation programme to present the project, which should be examined separately, especially since the CLKP is being perceived as a research institution. It must be acknowledged that the work on the bill on the modernisation part has been going on for some time. Trade unions were involved, information about them penetrated the media. I am not tempted to say that they were conducted with a certain transparency, but given the previous standards, it was not the worst, it could even be said that it was good. As a result, it is our great surprise that the pace of work has taken on such an acceleration that Members have practically been deprived of the possibility of carrying out an in-depth analysis of this document, giving it an urgent procedure and moving on to the next stages of work practically from day to day. Therefore, the analysis on my part will not be exactly accurate and certainly not as I would like it to be. First of all, however, consideration should be given to the incentive role of the wage system in the formations supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. It has an impact both on the efficiency of the officers employed and on the possible increase in their interest in the service. It has been consistently recognised that increased expenditure will be needed to modernise the service training system. This is an extremely important element that influences the perception of the day-to-day contact of officials with citizens. I do not need to remind you how much damage an intervention by a poorly trained, uncontrollable officer can cause. The recent tragedies in Lower Silesia are evidently due primarily to the lack of training of officers. That's too bad. What has upset us - not only me, but the entire committee - is that the wage problems of civil police, State Fire Department, Border Guard or SOP have not been solved. And we must remember that civilian workers are an integral part of the MMA. They should be covered by this programme and this civilisation should be effective. At this point, Marshal, I would like to make amendments that we have drawn up together with the parliamentary circle of Jarosław Gowin. I'm making these adjustments. Their content will later be presented by the members of the circle. An important element of the modernisation programme is the increased financing of the material base for individual formations. Here I would like to point out that the events of recent months have prompted us to consider introducing more thoughtful solutions in the area of national border protection, more sophisticated systems than building fences and walls. It is certainly important to assess positively the modernisation of the Automated Radar System for the surveillance of Polish maritime areas and the construction of a perimetric border protection system. Surely building this system is a great challenge, which requires great caution and very deep study work. To conclude, I would like to stress that the project presented is another programme of technical modernisation of public order and security services. No country can afford to stop upgrading its services. Under no circumstances must their efficiency be reduced. This would mean the loss of the results of the expenditure so far incurred. The effectiveness of the programme will depend to a great extent on how it will be implemented in practice. I therefore declare that the way in which the money planned in the present programme will be used will be closely monitored by the opposition Members. Marshal, I'm making a correctional bell. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, sir. I understand it's some new coalition that's tied up. No...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u507	Okay, thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u508	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are proceeding with the Modernization Act concerning the Ministry of Home Affairs. The first important procedure is the procedure, the urgency procedure. There was not enough opportunity to think deeply about this 10 billion, and this is a high amount. Of course, it is difficult to be against this law, it is difficult to be against the modernisation of police and other services. These are things that require investment, and these previous programmes are actually quite well received. I would also like to join the group of people who insist on civilian police workers. I would like to stress that civilian police officers are working for the same purposes as police officers, they are backrooms, they touch sensitive information about crimes involving various classified or secret items. It cannot be that they are prone to corruption or work carelessly, whether they are accepted to work by incompetent people, people who will not safeguard our national interests in this area. In today's trade union speeches in the internal affairs committee, it is clear that there is no consensus here and that civilian workers have been lost, ignored in this regulation. That's once. On the other hand, I would like you to end this Polish-Polish war on the occasion that you rule. Instead of bidding on who took out all those police stations... Now you're bragging that you're rebuilding it. I'm sure it's necessary in many places, that's without doubt, but I'd like you to convince us to do that, and basically to carry out the goals set before the services, say, the police, by examining whether the reconstruction of the police station that was, and which is not, an increased number of patrols, or maybe an increased number of personnel will be more beneficial in a given place. It is very good that these staffs are growing, that there are increases, but the idea is to use intelligent solutions, not based on assumptions, not a priori - because they have eliminated, we will rebuild - only considering whether it is necessary in a given place, whether it is necessary in a given place and whether it will increase the sense of security and the actual state of security (the bell) of Poles in the given area. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u509	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Zimoch will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u510	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! This morning even Minister Maciej Wąsik was surprised by the surprising amendment of the Minister of Justice. It's priceless. At the committee meeting, the Sejm's legislators questioned the compatibility of the draft with the Constitution. Once again, the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm were violated: the government's own amendment concerning the Prison Service was not submitted at the right time, i.e. before the first reading began. What's the point of demolishing the Sejm, the Seym procedure? Even the best upgrade program won't work if you don't take care of the civilian police staff. The Internet mailman has been extremely busy lately. For several weeks each of us, Members, has received letters from civil police personnel. They're skilled, educated specialists in various fields. Many of them are in a very difficult financial situation. Many of them have been demanding for years a proper, decent remuneration. These requests haven't helped in years. For years, civil police officials have not been helped by appeals, and not even by seymous deniers. I hope that tomorrow, the Administrative Commission will address another dissertation to the President of the Council of Ministers. Every fifth person in the Polish Police is a non-university employee. The average salary is significantly lower than the average salary in the national economy, the average monthly salary of civil servants or the monthly salary of persons not covered by multiplier remuneration schemes. This is from the justification of the amendment of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050. This amendment makes the remuneration of the police staff subject to the basic amount, in line with the basic salary of the officers. Gentlemen of Ministers! I am directing an appeal to the Minister of the Interior in particular. Thanks to you, I'll keep the Internet mailman busy. Send the gentlemen to 25,000. its staff letters stating that the Sejm finally accepted the amendment, amendment of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050. Because this amendment will definitely improve the situation of civil police workers, and only then will the modernisation programme make good sense. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u511	Thank you, sir. Mrs Magdalena Sroka, on behalf of the Agreement circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u512	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The modernisation law was needed both in the first perspective and in the perspective of 2022 and 2025. It was a law - and I hope it will - which will cause all uniformed services to enter the next, higher level. It's about rolling stock replacements, precincts, repairs. But that's not all. During the talks, the Minister promised the environment that another perspective would be focused on human resources, on equalisation, raising them both to uniformed officers and civil servants. I don't know if you know that today there are individuals in which all civil servants earn the lowest national income. These are people with high qualifications, with great responsibility, who deserve far higher means than those proposed in the processed modernisation bill. Of course, it is impossible not to support this law, because it provides additional resources for the wider security. Everyone in this room agrees with that absolutely. On the other hand, the joint amendments that we have prepared with Mr Marek Biernacki will allow for an increase in expenditure on the payment of police officers, as well as civilian workers. This amendment will also ensure that the increase in the remuneration of police civil servants resulting from an increase in the lowest national level will not come from modernisation measures, but from budgetary resources. Because it is important that these increases actually be felt. Therefore, the agreement of Jarosław Gowin will support this project. I also count on the favour of all States to increase these measures. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u513	Thank you, Member. Mr Stanisław Żuk, on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Circle15. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u514	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested bill on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service between 2022 and 2025 and the amendment of the Police Act and certain other laws aims at modernising individual formations in the field of technical equipment and human potential. The programme's expenditure of more than 10 030 million planned for 4 years, which will certainly take account of the personal condition but also of technical equipment and infrastructure, shall be broken down at specified values. Police - 6,4 billion, Border Guard - 1.4 Billion, State Fire Department - 1.9 billion, State Security Service - 230 million. The breakdown of the amounts allocated to each project in implementation is planned as follows - I will only give the most important figures: construction investments - 2,3 billion, transport equipment - 918 million, IT and communications equipment - 635 million, permanent reinforcement - 1.6 billion, strengthening the incentive system - 3.3 billion, increasing the salaries of employees of the organisational units - 619 million. How individual services carry out their tasks depends primarily on the competence of officers, the use of the best management techniques, the potential of human resources, as well as adequate funding and equipment of the individual services. The amounts I mentioned earlier will allow for the modernisation of the equipment used and the replacement and expansion of infrastructure facilities. An important element of the programme is the use of more than 3 billion to strengthen the motivational system of paying officers. Because in addition to permanent remuneration, the incentive system always brings certain positive effects of greater involvement in work, showing itself at work, in fulfilling its responsibilities. Maintaining an adequate level of security in the country also requires changes in the organizational structures of the formation and adapting them to the current needs. In order to increase the detection capacity of the Police, the Act proposes a change in the form of operation, scope of operation for the Central Police Criminal Laboratory: from the research unit will be transformed into a unit supporting the operation of the Police or the Public Prosecutor's Office. As the Kukiz15 - Direct Democracy, with a view to public security in our country, as well as better working conditions and functioning of individual formations, we consider (the bell) the project presented, the legislative proposal to be very good and necessary and as a circle we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u515	Thank you kindly, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u516	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The project concerns the creation of conditions for the full implementation of statutory tasks by security and public order formations and the improvement of the performance of those formations. In these formations, they work in addition to uniformed officers civil servants. The Left Club submitted a proposal in the form of an amendment to the budget by 285 million for increases for civil police personnel. The question will not be addressed to the Minister, but to all Members. Will you support this increase for civilian workers or will you not support it? We'll see soon enough. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u517	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u518	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many times over the past two weeks, the Left Club has been asking for civil police workers, workers whose work is extremely needed. These are technicians, these are administrative staff, these are people without whom police work will not be possible. We're talking today about the modernization bill. We also tabled a budgetary amendment under this modernisation act. I would like to appeal from this point of view to the opposition on the one hand. Ladies and gentlemen, we made a good amendment two weeks ago to 285 million, agreed with the environment. This amendment will make it possible to increase wages by 1 000. zł. Support this amendment. On the other hand, the state on the right, you certainly have many relatives and acquaintances who are civil police employees. Consider... [[So what?]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consider that next year 50% of them will earn the lowest national income. Support this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u519	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u520	Ladies and gentlemen! Never before, ladies and gentlemen, have I received so many e-mails from civil police personnel, from civil border guards. When they were talking, it was not yet called an idea to change their lowest wage. As far as the Border Guard is concerned, the salary of an employee without civil service allowances is PLN 2997 or less than PLN 3500. So there is a need for change, and only we are all surprised that when a state in this Chamber, introducing a state of emergency, you praised the Border Guard so much, you did not think of civil border guards. Also 25,000. civilian police officials have turned to us that their salary is scandalously low (the bell). You should change that and take it personally. This is your sin of omission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u521	Thank you. Mr Marek Rutka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u522	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Fire protection should be our common cross-party matter and should be removed from the current political game. Meanwhile, the Michałów CSR unit involved in providing assistance during the humanitarian crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border has already asked the City Police Command in Białystok for half of the cost of purchasing a heavy fire-fighting car. Today, Jelcz is 25 years old and often refuses to obey. It is worth adding that the CSR in Michałów was established 121 years ago and covers more than 40,000. ha forests and more than 150,000. ha surface. In view of the above, I would like to call for a positive examination of the next request made by Mayor Michałów so as not to give the impression that the management of the State Fire Department is guided by political criteria. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u523	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u524	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, during the committee meeting, we had full understanding, acceptance of the proposed bill of modernisation, the uniformed services, the police, the Border Guard, the SOP, the fire department. Until a certain point, when you decided to trample not only on the generally accepted rules of the game enshrined in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, you also trampled on the constitution, which was clearly stated by the legislators today. You guys made the drop on time at about an hour. 9, placing on the table 22 pages of amendments which came to the Sejm, to the Committee on Internal Affairs and Administration by the Ministry of Justice. Since when are we supposed to be penitentiary specialists? Why should we, as the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration, be responsible for PLN 3700 million of expenses that we are not the host of, and not the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration? [[Applause]] This has been clearly assessed by the legislators. Breaking the law, breaking the rules of the Sejm, breaking the constitution. It was supposed to be really nice, really nice, and I'm sure we'd get along, but you guys had to ruin everything again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u525	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u526	I'd like to make it sound like the Modernization Act doesn't solve the problem of civil servants, not just the police. We're talking 25 grand. People, maybe more. The National Management Board of the National Trade Union of Governmental Workers writes about this mechanism: it is an offer demonstrating the arrogance, lack of empathy and imprisonment of civil workers on the minimum level of the population. And now we have to take this seriously, because the question is, how are you going to solve this structural problem? The Modernization Act does not solve the problem of wage gaping from lowest to medium, I am not talking about high. Of course, the amendments to the budget that we are going to make - the Civic Coalition will also make them - are the opposite, and we are counting on the government to lean on it seriously and support it (the bell) so that we can settle it once and for all, because for the Republic of Poland it is a disgraceful problem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u527	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Maciej Necessary, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u528	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We know that the original idea of this modernisation plan and this law was to equalise the police salary, to bridge this gap between civil workers and policemen. It made sense, because it was difficult to talk about some modernisation plan, about a modern, functioning institution, where a significant part of the staff is disgracefully rewarded, in which people with high competences and qualifications receive a minimum wage and sit desk in a desk with people who earn twice as much as they do and enjoy additional privileges that they cannot count on. Such working conditions, such inequalities, such low salaries for employees - all of this makes it impossible to modernise and makes such an institution unable to function efficiently. And now the question is, what happened? Why did a reasonable plan to compensate for the inequality in the police end up with a plan to enlarge them, and why did you forget about the employees and employees of the civilian police? Why do you (the bell) condemn this modernisation plan to failure? You can't do that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u529	Thank you. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice. There isn't. [[Voice from the room: He's coming, he's coming.]] Come on in, my fellow Member. Sorry, I was looking a little the other way. I didn't see that coming.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u530	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Ministry very warmly for preparing such an important programme, which is a continuation of the programme from previous years, which has brought so much good in uniform services. Specific records give concrete results. The investments that have been made in recent years have been very expected, very needed. This new programme, which is worth more than PLN 10 billion, provides funds for investments, for shopping, for modernisation, but most importantly, for strengthening staff in uniform services. Minister, I have this question: Is it true that this reinforcement will amount to over 7,000. Jobs? If so, how many of these jobs will go to the police? Because we know that police stations will be played, and these will require an additional cast. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u531	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u532	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today, at the meeting of the Administrative Commission, one of the Members of the Civic Coalition said that the liquidation of 250 posts during the rule of the Civic Platform was a legitimate thing. I absolutely disagree with that approach. But I wanted to ask the Minister about a new modernisation program. Is there any chance in this program to recreate a police station in Domaniów, create a highway station in Tyniec Mały in Wrocław and a command in Siechnice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u533	Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u534	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The human factor in protecting the lives, health and property of citizens should always play a key role. Unfortunately, the current salary of the police staff is the lowest in the entire department of home affairs. In 2021 the average wage of employees of this service is PLN 3974. At this point, it is impossible not to mention the civilian workers of this formation, most of whom work for minimum wages or receive little more than the minimum, and who feel humiliated by the increases you propose. In the bill under review in the 4-year period you want to increase employment to 5600 jobs. How do you plan to do that, now that the police are already running out of more officers (the bell)? Will there therefore be changes in order 88 of the Chief of Police on the rules of the staff charges in this formation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u535	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u536	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The police haven't had a good press lately. It should also be said that she deserved it, starting with the bad guys who beat up women during the strike, and on these unsuccessful interventions... Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, That's right, Marshal. No, no. At those unsuccessful interventions where they unfortunately died... But that's how you talk about officers? ...citizens of this country. And now, with this bill, it can be improved, Minister. It can be improved, all you have to do is save a good amount, enough to buy spare cameras for officers. For two reasons - the first is that an officer, wearing such a camera, knows that he always acts only legally and within the limits of the law and that this is protection for the citizen. On the other hand, Minister, so that an officer like that can defend himself if someone wrongly speaks to him about breaking the law. That is why I would like to write in this bill (the bell) an appropriate amount for purchasing spare cameras for officers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u537	Thank you, sir. I just wanted to ask, "Did you express yourself so scandalously about police officers? [[What did I say?]] Just like you said. [[Voice from the courtroom: That's all, Marshal, drive. Don't make a fuss today.]] [[Your marshal, I was talking about these masked thugs. I don't know who it was, who were those clubs...]] [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: No, it's outrageous.]] Okay, that qualifies for the Board of Ethics. Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u538	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There was supposed to be a law to improve the salaries of civil servants, especially uniformed services, and in particular to modernise the needs of the Border Guard in a special situation - a total of PLN 10 billion. Border Guard - PLN 1439 million, including few for civilian workers. And what does it turn out to be? We've got the drop, and it's not the first one I'm gonna say. For the prison guard how much? [[State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: For service, Member.]] For the Prison Service, give God's service we have PLN 3721 million, and also for 10 years. Even if we count to 2025, we have almost PLN 2 billion for the Prison Service. But this isn't the first unconstitutional drop. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the previous meeting there was a drop in banking law - again on the Justice Fund and also on the so-called. The infamous Jake fund. These are unacceptable methods. It is not enough that unconstitutional - immoral. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u539	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you, Member. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u540	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law in very beautiful words speaks about how the government intends to improve the quality of uniform service work. At the same time, you've made nearly 25,000. civil servants and police staff will receive a minimum wage from 1 January. With inflation, it's a joke. Very often they are specialists in administration, law or computer science, many of them come to us. They tell us how many times they're forced to work overtime, work nights, weekends. It's insulting and unworthy. How are we supposed to feel safe when people working in the police, the fire department or the border guard are supposed to get the lowest salary possible for their work? I expect the government to react immediately to this situation. Real modernisation of services will only be possible if you respect the work of all who create it. Are you saying you respect the uniform? Then show that you respect civilians as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u541	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club. There isn't? There isn't. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u542	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Civil servants shall not receive remuneration corresponding to their education and experience. Without them, you can't buy the equipment, you can't pay your wages without it. They are involved in logistics, IT and others. administration and from 1 January 50% out of them is to receive a remuneration of PLN 3010. That's really embarrassing. We need to talk to them, we need to come to an agreement with them, we need to look for solutions, not - as Minister Wąsik said today - to consider that the expectations of the unionists were too high, so the talks were interrupted or that there was not enough time for meetings. Then let this time finally come. We demand dialogue with civil servants, the adoption of amendments to the state budget increasing the remuneration of civil workers, so that the envelope of funds in the Modernization Act is much greater. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These people just deserve it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u543	Thank you. I invite Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u544	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Two questions about the police. First - CLKP has a completely changed function. So what will happen to the scientific achievements, what will happen to the people who worked there, who will be overqualified? These are high-end scientists. Are there any discussions with the Minister of Science and Higher Education regarding the further fate of these studies? The second question concerns efficiency. This is the third programme, and I do not doubt that the effectiveness of these programmes is being investigated. I'm going to ask you especially about detection, because this one has been very poorly evaluated by the NIK. So I would ask for written information about detection in the last 5 years, in particular concerning theft and fraud of my granddaughter and policeman - because here old people are being harmed, who are often taken away by the wealth of life. I would ask that the answer to this second question be in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u545	Thank you, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. Please ask the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u546	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The bill contains a program we are discussing today, which is very important. I would like to join the votes which were raised here, namely to ask what next with the very low salaries of civil police and border guards. When we look at Annex 3, where there are specific amounts for these salaries, we see that these are low amounts. I would like to ask what the average salary of civil servants in the Border Guard will be and how much the average salary in the Police will be. And Annex 4. Here are the increases in multiples of the basic amount concerning the remuneration of officers. Why are there no such indicators for civilian workers? What's their situation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The gap in wages is growing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u547	Thank you, Member. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u548	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This law should bring us all together, but it is unfortunately processed in an accelerated manner, in an exceptional manner. We should calmly get all the answers to the questions. My question is once again addressed to Minister Wąsik. First of all, is it true, when it comes to modernising Polish services, that Polish services use Pegasus? Secondly, is it true what the world media report that Poland received a wiretap license in connection with the illegal eavesdropping of politicians and journalists? This is also important in the context of this law, the public should receive an answer. The next issue concerns the quality of training. We want to hire over 5,000. Police officers, and what happened in Lower Silesia - the death of three people within 3 days of unsuccessful interventions, tragic interventions: Mr. Łągiewka, Mr. Sokołowski and Mr. Dmytro - is unacceptable. We need to train better. Here these measures are above all much, much too low. Another issue concerns the scandalously low wages (the bell) of civil police workers. They require much more growth. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u549	Thank you, sir. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u550	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Security Committee. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I bet that under the co-financing coat for services the amount of PLN 10 billion will go to companies managed by PiS people. How do I know? Since the construction of a wall on the border for 1,600 million PLN has just been adopted in this room, they will deal with the following issues: Węglokoks SA - Sławomir Brzeziński, Vice President of the Management Board, known in Opole circles as Patrick Jaki's man, member of PiS, Tomasz Heryszzek, Chairman of the Management Board, associated with PiS in Gliwice, Mostostal Siedlce - Tomasz Hapunowicz, member of PiS, President of the Management Board, Mariusz Gruda, Vice President of the Management Board, and also the most generous founder of the local government campaign PiS in Siedlce. So what? Anyone willing to bet with me on whose paws this 10 billion zloty is going to hit? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u551	Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u552	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! After an excellent law on CSR, which we have expected for more than 30 years, or maybe longer, there is another good modernisation bill - not the first, but another - introduced by this government. You've eliminated some police stations, fallen PSP commands, which were in a tragic state, and the Border Guard was liquidated, just like in Nowy Sącz. Congratulations, because today, thanks to God, we have rebuilt the Border Guard in Nowy Sącz and it turns out that it is needed. Ladies and gentlemen, just as you have destroyed the services, the Border Guard, the PSP, the Police, no one has ever done such a work in the history of this country. Thank God we're gonna rebuild it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Meiza, Meiza.]] Minister, thank you for this, thank you for this situation... [[Meiza.]] Madam, do you have any problems stuttering or something? I don't know. [[Voice from the room: You have a problem.]] ...for having returned to balance, for modernising, for moving towards the future and rebuilding commands. Thank you for including commands in this program, as for example. PSP in Nowy Sącz, another police station. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So this is the future of the service. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u553	Thank you, sir. Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u554	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Third Modernization Act is a great opportunity to modernise, to invest in the field, but also to increase the salary of police workers, guards, also civil workers. I also see an opportunity for the district of Myślenice and for the district command in Myślenice, to build a new command for the county. On the other hand, my question concerns civilian workers. I have a question as to whether this is the only money under the Modernization Act provided for increases for civil workers, or whether the money under the budget is also guaranteed. The police for these increases and what it will be - I mean above all the employees of the District Police Commands, because there the salaries are probably the worst - the total amount of the net increase (the bell) for one employee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u555	Thank you. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Lewis Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u556	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2022, a mass declaration by civil police personnel can be expected. More than half of the workers will earn the lowest national or even less, and certain measures will have to be added to this lowest national level. These are the starvation salaries of the cheap labour force, after all, a valuable 25-thousand-dollar social group. This is a great injustice. That is why I demand and demand, on behalf of my club, a raise of PLN 1000 for each employee in this employment group. [[Applause]] We have already tabled an amendment to the budget on this issue and I appeal for support. Let's show that we can do something together on this important matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u557	Thank you, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u558	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! This government project also provides for a programme for the modernisation of the Prison Service for the period 2022 to 2025. In the context of the abusive wages of civil servants, this programme of modernisation of the Prison Service provides for inter alia. These are solutions: strengthening the incentive system of the Prison Service officers' salaries, increasing the competitiveness of the remuneration of civil servants of the Prison Service and improving the social and social conditions of civil servants of the Prison Service as part of the PRO programme. Could the Minister say what this means for a single civil servant of the Prison Service: increasing the competitiveness of civil servants' salaries? How will this translate into an increase in wages? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u559	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u560	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the issue of the salaries of the civilian police staff is the government very well known, because for many years everyone in this House has known that this is the least-paid group in our services and these increases should take place. I don't understand why the government of law and justice insists on these workers and treats them as stepmothers. That is why I call on Members of the Law and Justice, all like one husband, not to look at what the government is doing in this case because it is doing very badly, but to support the amendment of Poland 2050, which in this bill also provides for special measures for increases for civil police workers. In today's extremely expensive and very high inflation situation for these workers, it is simply the right thing to do. That's what they deserve. Today, the entire High Chamber should stand (the bell) like one husband behind civilian police workers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u561	Thank you, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u562	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Modernization Act on Uniform Services does not solve the problem of these services, as we discussed in the committees. The minimum wage, you can say, is demotivating, and above all, it causes many vacancies, several thousand vacancies. You want to complete these vacancies in the near future. How do you do that with a minimum wage like this? The Civic Coalition Club has tabled amendments requesting uniformed staff, including civilian personnel, which meet the expectations of uniformed personnel, including the Police and Border Guard. We ask you to take our amendments into account. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u563	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u564	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make a request for civilian police personnel, Border Guards, courthouses and prosecutors. According to various data, from 1 January about 70% They're gonna make the lowest national profit. Very often there are cases where civil servants sit almost a desk in a desk with officers, do almost the same work, and the salary they receive is twice as low as the salary of the officers. I believe that no service will be able to function well, to work well without civilian workers. Let's look at it today over political divisions. And there is time, and we have made appropriate amendments, and I expect that we will vote together over political divisions in order to secure financial resources for this professional group. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u565	Thank you. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland. No uniform this time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u566	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, we are living in very restless and dynamic times and each day brings further threats. That is why modernization of uniformed services is something that we need to be very strong on, we need to invest, equip with new equipment, new technologies. But the equipment itself will not work without people. That's why you have to take care of those who are uniformed to make good money, but also those who work in the civilian corps. I wanted to ask, Minister, if there are new methods of training in the field of intervention in this modernisation programme and whether they are also being carried out, for example, if training will be carried out. in the field of first aid to all police officers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u567	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, on behalf of the Confederate circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u568	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question on the verge of this topic, specifically, about the finer elements of the equipment of our police officers and the Border Guard, who protect our borders, the defenders of our borders. Are the jackets that our officers have warmer than the jackets they have, as we can see, immigrants? This question is contrary to appearances quite serious, because when you do not just at the time of the combat test you should verify the equipment. How do you collect information from officers, whether the shoes work, whether the jackets work, whether the flashlights work? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u569	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u570	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Lukasz Masa's colleagues! A well-functioning service is capable of corrupting mismanagement politicians, and that is what we have been dealing with in the last six years. Unfortunately, other deaths during interventions or, for example, are evidence of this. millions of zlotys extracted from the CBA operational fund. On the other hand, what do we expect from managers who have been convicted of exceeding their rights? But I want to ask a completely different question. You can't upgrade the services without evening your wages. I would like to ask you what kind of ideas you ministers have to raise the salaries of police and other civil servants. I would very much ask for an answer in writing on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u571	Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u572	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This question has repeatedly sounded in this room in the process of the project. I'm shutting down a series of questions. That's all the better. Allow me to quote one of the hundreds of e-mails that I also received. He writes to you or to us sovereign: I'm a civilian police officer. I like my job very much and it gives me a lot of satisfaction. I'm good at it, and I know that my work and commitment are needed and appreciated among the police, as well as my superiors. But the satisfaction and smile on my face won't fill my fridge, they won't pay the galloping bill for electricity and gas. How am I supposed to explain to my son that he can't fix his tooth, that he can't get decent winter shoes because I can't afford it? Sincerely, a civilian officer of the City Police Command. There is a copy of the so-called. pay belt - PLN 2404. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u573	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of MEPs has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior and Administration of Minister Paweł Chiefer to answer the questions raised. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u574	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, on behalf of the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, I would like to thank all officers, officers, uniformed staff, trade union representatives who have worked for the last few months on a programme to modernise uniformed services for the years 2022 and 2025. This is a document that has been produced in recent months. There's been a lot of work on it. I would like to thank everyone very warmly for this. As far as the urgency of this project is concerned, the project is being implemented in such a way that we want it to enter into force as soon as possible so that, from January next year, all the increases I am going to talk about can be implemented. First of all, by systematicising your knowledge on this subject, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that more than PLN 10 billion is the total amount for which the programme of modernization of uniformed services subordinate to the MSWiA is based. 44% , or 4364 million, is the amount for investments and purchases. The second part of this programme is 56% , more than PLN 5600 million, intended for investment in human capital, because the increase is primarily an investment in human capital. Over PLN 6 billion are funds that will go to the police, nearly PLN 2 billion - to the fire department, nearly PLN 1.5 billion - to the Border Guard and to the State Security Service - almost PLN 214 million. There are many questions that I would like to answer in detail, because it is worth that you have this knowledge. Many questions show that you do not have all the knowledge, and that is why it is worth talking about it and to systematize it. First of all, the issue of the remuneration of civil servants. I would like to bow down to these workers on behalf of the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to Members who have asked these questions, particularly from the Left and the Civic Platform, in politics, it is worth taking responsibility for the words. Really, this is extremely important. As a young man in politics, I believe that this is absolutely a matter of... [[Morawiecki has two sentences for lying.]] ...which is not in today's debate on your part. Why? That's because it's worth remembering in 2011 and 2015... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madam President, I am about to talk about the years 2015-2021, but first of all I am talking about the years 2011-2015. [[Is that when Morawiecki advised?]] The increase for civil servants was 0 PLN for 4 years. 0 PLN. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] In 2015, the average wage of civil workers was PLN 2960 gross, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Following the adoption of this law and thanks to increases in the last 6 years, the average wage in the Police will be PLN 4658. [[Applause]] That's 1700 more than six years ago when you gave up power. And you guys have the courage and the audacity to stand here and say that these are low amounts? [[You were beginning to...]] To answer your question... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Don't yell, just listen. Please, ma'am, really. You're not gonna scream the untruth that fell here today. [[But inflation wasn't like that.]] Madam, can't you really just sit quietly for a minute? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Exactly. Then maybe you should change your profession. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: Ladies and gentlemen, it's worth saying. Thanks to the Modernization Act and the state budget for next year, the average wage for civil servants of the MMA will be on average PLN 521 more. These 521 zł is 356 zł written in this bill, on which we are proceeding, plus 165 zł written in the Budget Act. So on average it will be PLN 521. It is also worth mentioning, because you said that you still had to find additional resources to increase the minimum wage. Well, they're already in the budget bill - 34 million to raise the minimum wage - so it's not going to come out of those 521 zlotys. An additional 34 million are saved. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true what has happened here - that 50% employees will have a minimum wage - because this 34 million will make it up to the minimum wage for everyone, 3010 PLN, and in addition these employees will receive an average of 500 PLN increase per job. So, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the state budget that we have right now, these are the increases that might be right now. Minister Wąsik today declared that dialogue with civil workers will continue and that we will be looking for an agreement in this dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat these amounts once again: PLN 2960 in 2015, this is what the average remuneration for your governments paid, now, in 2022 - PLN 4658. [[And the highest inflation.]] I'll answer other questions. The programme is being implemented because one of the Members asked this, NIK's training proposals. Yes, this is the programme that implements the Supreme Audit Chamber's conclusions. As regards the training committees, there were two separate committees. Mrs Nowogórska asked about the issue of training before proceeding on this law. Yes, this law also indicates a change in training from two levels of professional qualification to four levels of professional qualification. Other questions concerning training did not concern a statutory issue, a matter which is governed by the law. This will also be changed on an ongoing basis in the next service programmes in terms of training issues. As far as the issue of the medal is concerned, one of your fellow Members said that they had a medal. horseshoes. Andrzej Struja will not be included in this bill. Yeah, it will, and that's honoring that badge. So far it has been a badge given by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, and from now on it will be a medal to them. horseshoes. Andrzej Struja, medal under the bill. Therefore, any officer who receives this medal will also be paid a statutory benefit. Ladies and gentlemen! There was a question about the new police stations. The establishment of each new post is preceded by detailed police analysis, public consultation, cooperation, also on the line with local government, so they will definitely return where they are most needed. I would like to remind you that under the Civic Platform 418 stations were liquidated, 145 were restored to this day, and 250 more police stations were planned in small towns all over Poland under this law. As regards the questions concerning the recruitment to the Police, this is very important because these questions show that the State has no basic knowledge of the matter, so it is worth mentioning this. Ladies and gentlemen! A year ago in October there were 7177 vacancies, at the end of October there are 4366 vacancies. There's been a record call to the police in the last 12 months. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of some knowledge that you have received from civilian workers, you have drawn very far-reaching conclusions, but as I said, it is worth noting that the fluctuations in staff among civilian workers this year are 1%. You're talking about the government leaving, and that's not true. 1% When it comes to human resources fluctuations. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude: indeed, thanks to the financial resources of the new law, within 4 years the number of police posts will be increased by more than 5600 posts, 2 000. The posts will be assigned to the cast of the new police stations, 3600 to strengthen the prevention troops. Within the framework of the 4-year modernisation programme, more than PLN 2 billion will be allocated to investments and modern equipment for the Police. Many of these figures, which I wanted to present to you, were presented earlier by Minister Jarosław Zieliński, who was also involved in these works, co-founder of the previous modernisation act. You said at first that this was an obvious project. Yes, under the rule of law and justice, the modernisation bill is a matter of course. [[Applause]] I would like to thank all the Members who have taken part in the work of the committee very warmly on behalf of the Presidency of the Ministry. The law was adopted unanimously, so despite the wave of criticism against the government, the state voted in favour of this law unanimously. I'd like to thank everyone for that. I would like to thank Mr Zieliński for his work, as well as for his report and his support. Ladies and gentlemen! I very much urge everyone to support this bill, because it is a very good law that will solve many problems that have not been solved in uniform services for years, especially in your governments. The first modernisation programme, for 2016 and-2020, has solved a number of problems. This is the continuation of this very good program. As regards the issues relating to the Prison Service, your marshal, I would ask for the floor to be given to Minister Michał Wosi. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u575	Of course. Thank you very much, Minister. I invite you to speak to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Michał Wosia. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u576	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I, in turn, would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen on behalf of almost 30,000. officials and civil servants of the Prison Service for the decision taken today that the Prison Service and its modernisation programme will be implemented at the same time and will enter into force on the same day as the modernisation programme of services subordinate to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. Indeed, you have today stressed that state security services, internal security services should be treated equally and should be treated without distinction. The Prison Service modernisation programme is the implementation of this principle. Because in the Prison Service, as in other services as in the Police, Border Guard, State Fire Department, the State Security Service provides for increases in the same amount for both officers and civil servants, as you have asked Members today. This programme, as well as the MSWiA modernisation programme, focuses mainly on these increases, but also on investments related to improving the performance of the service within this specific, important formation, which is the Prison Service, where we have not only 30 thousand. Officers, but also over 70,000. persons under the care and on day-to-day care. The programme of modernization of the Prison Service, contrary to what was raining here today from the pulpit... I would like it to be 3 billion zlotys, but there is a little less, although also a lot, because 1865 million zlotys. Today, the officers I spoke with have repeatedly thanked me for making this decision that we are proceeding on both programmes at the same time. On the other hand, with regard to the doubts raised by some of you regarding constitutionality, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that today at the committee meeting it was widely explained that there is no doubt about this. Judgment of the Constitutional Court of 1999, e.g. K 25/98 is a clear lecture on what should and may be the scope of the submission, even in urgent projects, and when it does not deviate, all the more at first reading or around first reading, from the scope of the submission. Then everything is lege artis. So thank you very much also for this decision to proceed precisely on this programme of modernization of the Prison Service. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u577	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Jarosław Zieliński, also asked for the floor. You're welcome, sir. [[Voice from the room: Let's hope it's short.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u578	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would, of course, like to make a brief reference to one thread that appeared in the discussion during the committee work, but also here in the plenary room. Namely, it is about winding up and replaying police stations. It must be said that it seemed that after all these years the matter was quite clear and obvious that police stations were increasing security in the area where they function. They increase the safety and security of residents, citizens. It turns out that today there are still voices that question it, questioning it. This isn't the right way. It's such a embarrassing thing about that time. It seems to me that this should be forgotten and that these posts should be re-enacted by common forces. There was also a question of where they would be played and whether it would not be a political decision: where the Law and Justice rule, there would be posts, and where somebody else ruled, there would be no more. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Wąsik responded very well at the committee's meeting that we will play where the Civic Platform and the PSL have eliminated them at that time over the past years. [[Applause]] Now, of course - and Mr Chezernaker just mentioned it - consultations are underway. Conclusions have been received which are considered in terms of the level of risk, the effects of the station, including ground, local, cost, staff, etc. So that's what I'm talking about, because for four years I've been doing this, and almost 150 police stations, I think 136 police stations at the time, and now 150 have been recreated. This was largely also with my participation, so I just know how it is going to be done, how it is going to be done and how it's going to continue. So restoring the stations makes sense. Ladies and gentlemen, aside from everything, if anyone has any doubts, please note that if there is no police station, and the police arrive from a distance, from the county city, it's even a lot of misdemeanors, and maybe even crimes, no one is able to register, because there are simply no police at the scene, she's not close. So that statistics can be unbelievable. You just have to remember that. And I would ask you to think like this, because this is really about security in these particular smaller towns, municipalities, where the stations should go back and that is why the modernisation programme will be restored. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u579	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16. of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the law - Penal Code and some other laws (print No. 1693). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Mariusz Dzierżawski to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u580	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! [[Oh, Jesus.]] Over 30,000 in the last year. Polish children lost their lives as a result of illegal abortion. Abortion environments publicly boast of participation in 34,000. illegal activities, and even more crimes are committed quietly. What the Polish state is doing in the face of mass crimes... [[Voice from the hall: Churches.]] ...to which criminals confess publicly? Unfortunately, the answer is nothing. Art. 30 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland states: "The natural and inalienable dignity of man is a source of freedom and human rights and citizenship. It is inviolable and its respect and protection is the responsibility of the public authorities. Is the embryo, embryo, fetus... [[Voice from the room: Sperm.]] ...is a human being, or is it just a bunch of cells, tissue, parasite, as the abortion supporters claim? From a biological point of view, it's obvious. We're dealing with a unique, developmental organism. And if the parents are human, then the child in the womb is also human. This is also obvious from a legal point of view. This is demonstrated by the Constitutional Court's judgments, both in 2020 and in 1997. Art. 38 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland says: The Republic of Poland provides every man with legal protection of life. And what's it like in practice? Is man's dignity compatible with the impunity of mass murders on the small and defenseless? Of course not. Abortion organizations providing death pills to Poland operate openly, advertise in the media and on the streets. Their names, addresses, phone numbers are known. They've been working with impunity for years. How is that possible? The answer is in the Penal Code. Introduced in 1997 art. 152 The Penal Code, which guarantees impunity for the mother of the conceived child, even if she killed them in the most cruel way, also makes it virtually impossible to prosecute the people who forced and even forced the mother to do so. Since the murder of a child conceived by a mother is not a crime, you can unpunishedly advertise help in murder. Is the impunity of child murder a good thing for a mother? Would any of your fellow Members like to have the right to unpunishedly kill their child? [[You just killed Mrs. Iwona.]] [[Voice from the room: Iza.]] By the way, today's media, specifically Onet, reported that in Sandomierz, the police included two men suspected of killing eight dogs. [[Voice from the hall: An abortion.]] He's threatening these people for eight years, I'm sorry, five years in prison. If we compare this with the impunity of murdering tens of thousands of Polish children, it prompts, I hope, to think. What the benefit of a mother's pill abortion is, you can learn from abortion forums. Let me give you one description. [[Do you like to read it?]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] I was flooded with blood, literally everything was in the blood, the bed, the floor, my clothes, socks and slippers, everything. Run to the toilet, there's another wave of pain, another two stronger than ever. I went to the hospital with a hemorrhage and regular contractions. The baby was alive. There was an attempt to stop it. It didn't work. The baby was born and died in my hands in the hospital. Just a massacre. There are many similar stories. Can an honest person say that abortion is a blessing for a woman? [[Voice from the room: Often yes.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Sometimes he saves lives.]] Unpunished mothers benefit from those who make money selling abortion pills, those who urge and compel women to have abortions. The beneficiaries of abortion impunity are also pharmaceutical companies and politicians paid by them. [[Voice from the hall: Russia pays you.]] Abortion kills a child, destroys the life of mother and father. He morally degrades everyone who participates in it. If the state supports killing the weakest or even tolerates it, it destroys the foundation on which it is built. For morality is the foundation of every human community. So what are they, if not great bandits of robbers, excluded from the justice of the state,' asked Benedict XVI in the Bundestag, quoting St. Augustine. [[But St. Augustine didn't say anything about these things.]] Can a just state be built on defenseless blood? Many have been so delusional in the past. The sacrifice of children to Moloch in order to ensure the welfare of the state was a common practice among the Gentiles neighbouring Israel. Jews, too, committed such crimes. In 2 Kings we read: They have rejected all the commandments of God their master. They carried their sons and daughters through the fire. They have committed themselves to doing what is bad in the eyes of the Lord, taunting him. Therefore the Lord burned with violent anger against Israel, and rejected him from his face. [[The voice from the hall: Dude, what are you talking about?]] Also today there are politicians who seem to provide social peace, subject to the demands of abortionists. It is an illusion of cowards that will have the same effect as the events of Israel's history. Inner feuds will increase, divisions will deepen, and eventually the state will become an alien loot. [[The voice in the room: You work hard for it.]] Abortion propaganda is based on lies and manipulation. The death of victims of medical errors is intended to justify the spread of abortion. Meanwhile, abortion always kills the child and often also the mother. [[Where did you get this data?]] In April of this year, María del Valle, a feminist who was effectively fighting for legalization of abortions on request in Argentina, died as a result of abortions with abortion pills. Because of her death, the abortionists did not organize any protest action. Do they think that the mother's death as a result of abortion is okay? A foreign-funded abortion lobby has been able to collect several tens of thousands of hysterical fanatics on hate marches by mass media, but has not been able to collect 100,000 since the beginning of the year. signatures under an abortion project. [[You're an idiot.]] Supporters of child murder are strong money from pharmaceutical companies, they are strong propaganda of abortion media and fear of Polish politicians. Today Poland is the subject of aggression, an attack on the territorial integrity of the East, as well as an attack on the moral and spiritual foundations of Brussels. Today we must defend the territorial integrity and moral foundations of the nation. [[A little faith you are.]] History has shown that even a nation without a state can be reborn. A nation destroyed morally and spiritually will never be reborn. [[More faith in people, less D.A.'s office.]] Ladies and gentlemen! John Paul II said to us years ago: a nation that kills its own children is a nation without a future. If Poland is to live, we must stop killing Polish children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u581	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Anita Czerwińska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u582	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Applicant State! I present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice concerning the Act in Print No. 1693. I'll start with the ruling of the Constitutional Court... [[Pseudotribunal.]] ...in which it is clearly stated that a woman in a collision situation, when her life is threatened, has the right to choose her life. [[That's from the criminal code.]] Don't disturb me, Mr Budka. Thank you. The state represents such an extreme that you can share with your opponents, who are on the other side of the extreme, i.e. all those who represent pro-abortion movements. You may, ladies and gentlemen, shake hands today because the effect of this bill would be exactly the same. I mean, it wouldn't be about protecting your life. In fact, this project you are making a gift to pro-abortion movements, because the proposal to punish women for saving their lives can, of course, lead to social unrest, because it is unacceptable. Never in our cultural circle, in our civilization was it acceptable to punish women or anyone for saving their lives. So you have to ask yourself a question, because cui bono, qui prodest, which is: whose benefit is it? If we put it in the context of the current political situation, i.e. what is happening, the fight against the pandemic, but above all the hybrid attack on the Polish border, we can see that there is only one direction from which such inspirations can flow. It's just a diversion to protect life, because that's how you scare women, you don't protect life. Putting women before choice: death or prison, it does not lead to protection of life in any way. There may be such a psychic, paradoxical situation that a woman, a rape victim, will have a higher sentence than a rapist. And let me remind you that the average penalty for rape in Poland is 2 years. Because that's what the courts say. [[Voice from the room: Change the law...]] At the end of this project, you write that you want to abolish the 1993 law on family planning. I would like to remind you that in the short preamble to this law it is recognised, which is then evidently reflected in the legislation, that life is a fundamental human good, and that care for life and health is one of the fundamental responsibilities of the state and society. He also says that every human being has from the moment of conception the natural right to life, which remains under legal protection. It also obliges state authorities, local authorities to provide very broad care for pregnant women. It supports all actions in this direction, but above all, it penalizes abortion. And the State wants to abolish this law without actually giving any arguments in this explanatory memorandum. Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, acting in the spirit of responsibility, in the public interest, in the interests of the state, the leadership of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice has empowered me to refer to your marshals a motion to reject the whole of this project in its first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Speaker, why were you looking this way?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u583	Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u584	We will strive to ensure that even cases of extremely difficult pregnancy, when the child is sentenced to death and badly deformed, end in childbirth, so that this child can be baptized, buried and named - Jarosław Kaczyński announced in 2016, giving impetus to the action of PiS and ultraconservative fundamentalists for whom it is most important to give birth. Whether a raped child or a child with a disability who ends his life in suffering, whether a dead fetus or, on the occasion of this difficult birth, his mother will die. The most important thing is to have a baby. We're at a very dangerous time. How dangerous, we will see when we put together individual actions against women. His reign began with an unsuccessful attempt to tighten up the anti-abortion bill because of women's protests. They restricted access to emergency contraception by introducing prescriptions. They've eliminated in vitro funding. They promote a clause of conscience among doctors and even apothecaries. They've eliminated sexual education. For 3 million they issued an advertising spot about breeding rabbits, which encouraged Poles and Poles to procreate. Although Poland has ratified the Convention against Violence against Women, the government does not implement it. They have deprived women's organizations who have been helping and supporting women for years. They have abolished high standards of perinatal care to finally carry out the pseudotribunal of Przyłębska controlled by the PiS and tighten up the abortion bill that forces Polish women to be heroic. As if this were not enough, they prepare a register of pregnancies and for millions form the Institute of Family and Demography, headed by the President with prosecutorial powers, who will look at the Polish people into the bedroom and their entire life. They also want to make divorce difficult for people, because this is the latest project by Minister Ziobra, who will extend divorce cases under the coat of protection of marriage, which will also be more expensive. And today? Today we are investigating a project that should never - never - never - be in the Seym; [[Applause]] who assumes that abortion will become a homicide crime and a female killer; who provides for penalties for the removal of pregnancy for women and doctors from 5 to 25 years of imprisonment, including life imprisonment, and punishment for those who help women in difficult situations. The PiS government, which hates women, holds on and continues only thanks to anti-vaccines and fundamentalists. [[That's a lie.]] That's why in Poland every day for weeks, during the fourth wave, 400-500... And today? Today, as many as 570 people and Poland is in a demographic crisis. Because Polish women do not want to have children in Poland, which is not safe for them in any way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u585	Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition - the rest of the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u586	Mr. Marshal! The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club calls for the rejection of this shameful project at first reading. [[Applause]] It's a disgrace to the High House, those words we had to hear. It is humiliating for Poles who have always built our homeland, who wanted to be proud of their country, and this country becomes a country for them to cry on, and this country becomes a country for them to fear. They must be afraid that their pregnancy will be run by the D.A., they must be afraid that the registry will lead to another fear where they're afraid to have children. That's what young Polish girls, young girls tell us: We're scared. We fear Poland, we fear Poland under the PiS rule. I'm not going to refer to fundamentalists because it's not worth it. Because, as the PIS Member said, and for the first time in this speaker, I admit that it is right: yes, this is provocation. This is a provocation of extreme and fundamentalist environments. I urge you from the PiS - do not give in to it in every dimension, because it is not just punishment for miscarriage, it is not just prison for a mother who will help her raped daughter to terminate her pregnancy. It's not just a prison for up to 25 years for a doctor, but it's a constant fear. If you want the Poles to live a decent life, don't let them be afraid. And you can do that by changing the law so we can be safe. To make your daughters, your sisters, your friends, your grandchildren feel safe in Poland too. There are doctors among you. And they know what it will mean to them. They're gonna help a wounded woman in prison. It will help a woman who has a fetus with a fatal defect will be like Mrs. Iza - terror and fear. Do we really want such Poland for Poles who built this Republic, for Poles who have their dreams, their rights, their thinking about happiness? After Miss Isabella died, we screamed and shouted, "Not one more! Let us not let the Poles die because the rulers have created a cruel law under the dictation of a bunch of fanatics. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Not one more!]] [[Voices from the room: Not one more! Not one more!]] [[Voice from the room: Not one more abortion, yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u587	Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u588	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a story to tell today, too. It's March 1998. I am 21 years old and live in a big city in central Poland. My friend Agata, a 25-year-old, is raped by a doctor she's visiting. He's afraid to inform law enforcement. After a while, she discovers she's eight weeks pregnant. There's an ad in the paper. She's asking me for help and support, and I can't, and I don't want to say no. We're taking a cab to an abortion in a dirty office in the basement of a family house. A few thousand collected from our closest friends are left in a gray envelope on the table. We're going back on the tram from the procedure. We never tell anyone what happened that night. This story happened because in 1997 the Constitutional Tribunal abolished the possibility of abortion for social reasons. Agata could not stop her pregnancy legally, safely and in a clean hospital. It's been 23 years. I'm a messenger, a mother, I have a 20-year-old daughter. In 2020, Julia Przyłębska's tribunal sentences women with almost a total ban on abortion. After almost a quarter of a century the Polish abortion law changed to even more harsh and barbaric. It's a law that kills. Yeah, it's the law that kills women. But this project we're discussing today is more than just a step forward. Will the law treat a woman who's been raped more severely than a rapist? 12 years for rape and 25 years or life for rape abortion? This disgraceful project, inhuman, completely prohibiting abortion, without any exceptions, providing for control of abortions, forcing births even when a woman's life is at risk or when pregnancy is the result of rape, should immediately go to the basket. That's where he belongs. As Members of the Left, we run a rescue network, helping women. Yesterday I got a call from a young woman who's five months pregnant. Her water broke, she was waiting for the doctor to decide, she's afraid for her life. Why? Because two months ago, a 30-year-old Iza from Pszczyna died in the hospital. She was waiting for the doctors to decide, and her fetal water broke too. She wrote to her mother: "For now, thanks to the abortion bill, I have to lie down and do nothing. A few hours later, she was dead. Abortion in Poland operates in two different realities. One is a world of government statistics and several hundred abortions a year. The second world is over 120,000. abortion. Guess which reality is real. Does no abortion mean they're gone? No, abortions are only carried out elsewhere, outside the system, abroad, in homes, in private bathrooms. Today Polish women, Polish women, but also Belgians, maybe Dunki and Dutch women pay for their abortion. There are even more true stories. If this project comes into force, all the people, members of the organization that helped women, will go to jail for 25 years or for life. Today you want to wash your hands, but you really gave control over the health and life of women, Poles to these fanatics, those lunatics who are sitting in the Seym today. [[Applause]] Because while they're not formally in the Sejm, you support them, you give them political support, you give them financial support. That's why such horrible projects can be here today. They want more and more. What's next? A pregnancy test at the border? A state fertilization log? [[Voice from the room: Respect...]] One in three Poles removed the pregnancy, that's the facts. You're gonna put them all in jail? From this speaker we promise all women in Poland that when the Left is co-ruled, abortion in Poland will be legal, safe and free. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We're not in danger.]] My name is Catherine Kotula. I have helped, helped, and will assist in abortion and such as myself are thousands - mothers, fathers, husbands, partners, doctors, aid organizations such as Abortion Without Borders, which last year paid 700,000. for abortions 35,000. We'll do it, even if you want to put us in jail for 25 years or for life. On behalf of the Left, I request that the project be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u589	Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u590	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Allow me, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, to present my position on the citizens' draft law amending the law - Penal Code and some other laws. The project assumes that the Anti-Abortion Act, which currently allows abortion in two cases, is to lose its power and that abortion is to be treated as a homicide. The project assumes that the 1993 law on family planning, protection of the human fetus and conditions for abortion will cease to exist, so-called. an anti-abortion law which currently allows abortion in two cases: when pregnancy poses a risk to the life or health of the mother or where there is suspicion that the pregnancy was caused by rape. Civic project, among others introduces into the Penal Code the definition of the conceived child, i.e. the child during the period of birth within the meaning of Article. 149. According to the project, abortion is to be treated as a homicide, and for its execution it may threaten between 5 and 25 years and even life. Yes, human life is a great value and should be protected and cared for, and abortion is a great drama of a woman, a family. Often it is a tragic choice, to put on the balance of life of a sick, unborn child, though we know that it will not survive, and of its own health and life. The person to whom the woman, the mother, is a doctor who should have no doubt. He often has to act under pressure of time and be ready to seek help, make a decision. Failure to do so can lead to death and death of the mother and child. The proposed amendments to the Penal Code do not allow a doctor to help a woman who carries a severely damaged fetus because she will be afraid of punishment for medical help. Ladies and gentlemen, what are you getting at? What world do you cook for yourselves, your loved ones, for all of us? Are the drafters of this law aware that such a situation can affect any family, including you, us, all of us, our loved ones? The proposed changes are great difficulties for doctors who have been trained to help people. This change will contribute to the doctor's passive attitude in a situation where human life is determined by the hours. Which direction is our country heading in the 21st century? It's a perficious political struggle on your part, where you use people and play human lives. We're not authorized to do that. We present a concrete proposal to get out of the current impasse in which Poland was found. We are proposing a solution which will restore the legal status before the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment and the publication of a referendum in which we will cast our vote to the Poles. We want a new compromise, accepted by Poles and Poles in a referendum. We respect the voice of all citizens and will not sign the solutions proposed by this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What about the motion for rejection?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u591	Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u592	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Confederation is consistently in favour of the right to life. For the right to life and health of women, especially pregnant women and their unborn children. The Confederation is also in favour of all fathers being responsible for their children and always calling and calling for it, because the decision whether to have an abortion is actually always linked to the fact that the father of the child does not behave properly. That's what people who help pregnant women talk about. This responsibility of a man is not only responsibility but also rights, and that is why we are also consistently fighting parental alienation, i.e. Taking rights away mostly to fathers. However, as fathers, we started a team for: Birth care, here in the Seym, and along with the women willing to do it last week... [[Women are safe.]] ...with doctors, with obstetricians, with nurses we talked, talked and moved... [[Just a baby boom getting ready.]] ...these topics which unfortunately do not want to touch the left side of the room. You're not in perinatal care teams, you're not where you need to take care of a pregnant woman. You're just where you need to be when you want to kill the baby. That's the truth. None of you volunteered... [[You don't touch women.]] ...for the task force. perinatal care, which we established last year. None of you. [[Voice from the room: Stay away from us.]] Calm down, please, really. [[Voice from the room: Stay away from us.]] Seriously, guys, calm down. [[Voice from the room: Where are the Confederate women?]] Madam, you will take the broom and fly away, really leave it alone. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But please keep your voice down, okay? Childbirth care... [[Just because you're wearing a suit doesn't mean you're not a jerk.]] Look in the mirror. Parental care is a fundamental issue today when it comes to protecting both the lives of mothers and the lives of children. This is today's topic, which should especially be mindful of pro-life movements. We believe that we should address this issue as much as possible. We also invite all pro-life movements to cooperate in this team on. perinatal care. There were doubts about the project that was being discussed. My question to the designers is this: Has this project been consulted more widely with the legal environments that... [[All he had to do was consult the Kremlin.]] ...they're protecting lives? Has this project been consulted with other pro-life organisations? I have not met such consultations, because there are doubts about the state and critical situation (the Bell), which unfortunately occur during pregnancy, which occur in situations of life and health threat to the mother. Because of that, because of these doubts... Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050. Already? ...because of these doubts... [[Voice from the room: End.]] ...there will be no discipline in the Confederation's Parliamentary Circle in voting on this project. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Let me remind you that the entire circle has signed this motion...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u593	You're welcome, my fellow Member. That's the first thing you have to say about it, and then...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u594	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am applying for rejection at first reading of this project. In the first words I want to address all Poles, to all women who went to marches that protested. I just wanted to let you know that this is all your fault that the PiS is going backwards tonight. Thanks to you, thanks to Polish women, this project will go to waste. They're scared of us because we're strong. But despite the fact that the PiS filed a motion today to reject this project at first reading, remember who unleashed this pandemonium, who made Pandora's can open and who led the demons dressed as angels out of this can of Pandora to jump out. If you are a young Polish today, it doesn't matter who you are, whether you are rich, poor, educated or not. It doesn't matter how you planned your future, because the gentleman who came here today decided to decide your future. That maybe it'll decide your future, that you'll be raped, or that contraception won't work. Either your future determines a chromosome error or a fetal defect, or it's gonna take your life away from a ruptured uterus or a dead fetus. It doesn't matter what you think, your conscience, your decisions, because even if you're one of those women, those heroic women who decide to have a baby even though it comes from rape, even though it threatens your life, even though it's flawed, you won't have a chance to use your conscience, you won't be that heroic person because this gentleman wants to amputate your conscience. It's not your conscience. It's his conscience. If you're a mature woman who already has children, this gentleman is telling you today that your children aren't important because if you get pregnant and this pregnancy threatens your life, you're gonna be the orphan. And this gentleman says it's okay. If you are a woman who will no longer have children, remember to sniff and blow on her friends, on her daughters, granddaughters, daughters-in-laws, because at any time, if they were to rule people like this gentleman, they could go to jail and never get out of jail. Remember, one day you can hold your friend's hand when she bleeds during an unprofessional abortion, and you'll wonder if you'll call an ambulance and put her in jail or risk her life. This bill, if it were on the committee, will remind us every day of what demons (the bell) started the PiS, and he will never take it off. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u595	Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. First Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u596	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Human life is undoubtedly the greatest value and good protected by law. The protection of life is independent of religion, worldview or cultural differences. Every human being has the right to live. According to the Constitution, the Republic of Poland provides every man with legal protection of life from conception to natural death. In recent years, through the actions of many communities to protect life, the awareness that abortion is not just a medical procedure has been restored to society, but is an act that deprives a human being of life. There are many known cases where the result of the so-called. abortion occurred not only to the child, but also to the mother. My question concerns the protection of a woman from the criminal consequences of forcing her to do so. abortion by a doctor, child's father or other persons. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the law provide for such a situation when a woman is urged or forced to kill a child conceived by a third party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u597	Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u598	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another project of fundamentalists, who from their extreme religious views want to make universal law in Poland. We are debating a project that should never be in Parliament. It is disgraceful for this House, for Members, for the 21st century civilization, for science, for some elementary sensitivity, undermines the principles of humanity. In Poland, thousands of women lose their pregnancy each year. Women give birth to dead children. Pregnancy can endanger their life or health. Women are victims of rape. Women also decide to discontinue pregnancy for various reasons. According to this project, a woman in each of these situations would be careless and open her eyes, e.g. After a life-saving procedure, or after losing her child, she'd see a D.A. at her bedside and be prosecuted like a criminal under the Penal Code. This project predicts that a woman for removing a child from rape can get life imprisonment, and a rapist for 12 years. I have a question: Why do you hate Polish women so much? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u599	Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u600	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not going to turn to the applicants for this disgusting project because people who want to put rape victims in jail for abortion, and for more than twice as long as their rapists, don't deserve any attention from one person in this room. I address women, Poles from Pszczyna, from Świnica, from all over Poland, but also their husbands, their fathers, their families, their partners, because the safety, health and life of your daughters, your mothers, your partners are also your business. We're with you. Here, in the Seym, we demand the immediate rejection of this disgraceful bill. And apart from the Sejm, we offer you our help every day - an intervention in a hospital that refuses you legal abortion, helping the women you care about, whose lives and health are at risk. Remember, you're not alone. No one (the bell) will ever go alone. We're with you and you can count on us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u601	Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u602	After what I heard today, I would like to ask you a question to the left of the room - in your own words. This is 1610, your print, your initiative, Paulina Matysiak. This is about improving the provision of funeral allowances. It's a technical matter. But in this printing the fetus is a child, the mother is a mother. You know it's a man, you know it's a homicide. [[Voice from the room: Abortion is a medical procedure, buddy.]] You know that when you have to get your hand out for the funeral allowance. You don't know that only when you want to get rid of it... when you want to justify the most disgusting crime when your own mother kills her own child. Your own words: it's time to stop valueting the fetus because of the stage of pregnancy. That's what you have in this project today, and you have a chance to vote for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u603	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u604	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Citizens and Dear Citizens! Women in Poland are afraid. They're afraid to go to the gynecologist, they're afraid to get pregnant, they're afraid to study when there's a suspicion that pregnancy might develop incorrectly. Once, the news of pregnancy brought joy, often meant the fulfillment of many years of dreams. Today it raises doubts: Will everything be okay? Is the pregnancy developing properly? Will I be in the situation of Isabella of Pszczyna? This bill is inhuman. This bill is anti-social and anti-Citizen law, and it should never, ever, ever go to the pleural hall. But PiS is only afraid of the anger of its citizens, and only from the anger of its citizens is it able to go back. Today's proposal to reject this project at first reading is proof that you are afraid of citizens. [[♪ The bell ♪]] More and more. Thank you for... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u605	Thank you. You're wrong. I'm not afraid of you. [[We love you, too.]] Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u606	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Fundamentalists want to compare medical treatment, often saving their mother's life, with killing and punishing women and doctors even for life. What a gracious thing to say to you that you don't want us women to go to jail for a miscarriage. Or do you have plans like that? You want the world from a cache story because you hate women so much. Polish women deserve help, not intimidation by such fundamentalists. Polish women do not deserve to register pregnancy, do not deserve to have a family institute and demography, do not deserve intimidated doctors. Polish women deserve legal, safe and free abortion, without compromise. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u607	Mrs Anna Żukowska, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u608	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Complainer! You are unable with the clergy, with the Catholic Church, and even with the Pope to convince society to follow the doctrine of your faith. You would like the doctrine of Catholic faith to be applied in a country which is a secular state, which is worldly neutral. That's our constitution. As citizens and citizens, we have no obligation to comply with all the requirements that the Catholic Church will come up with. Not all are believers, and not all must be believers. Some are believers and are non-Catholic believers. There is no obligation in Poland to follow only this one religion. Therefore, you want to force women to act in a way that threatens their lives and their health. Finally, how many places have you predicted in women's prisons (the bell) to break the fallopian tube? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u609	Katarzyna Piekarska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u610	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Poland is not a woman-friendly country. Once the mother of Polka, today the mother of Polka martyr - martyr, because if the doctor wonders what responsibility she will bear instead of saving a woman in distress, it is not a country friendly to women. You asked if the fetus was human. And is a woman human or just... As I listened to you, I had the impression that a woman was just such an unnecessary addition to the embryo. And I'll tell you, a woman is human, too. He is above all a man, a living man, and has rights guaranteed by the Constitution. This project, if it comes into force, will be the end of in vitro fertilization. This project, if it comes into force, will be the end of prenatal surgery that saves the fetus, but it's at a certain risk, so no doctor will decide. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You know what your project should be called? El Salvador - Warsaw, a common cause, because only there do you have supporters. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u611	Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u612	You've turned women's lives into hell a long time ago. We're afraid to get pregnant. We're afraid the doctors won't save our lives and our health. We're afraid we're gonna be forced to have babies and watch. As soon as they're born, they die in agony. We're afraid we're gonna hear in the doctor's office that we don't have to do a prenatal exam, because we can't stop the pregnancy anyway. It's your fault. With Julia Przyłębska's hands you have introduced fanatical and barbaric laws, but it's time to stop being afraid. It's time to act. I therefore encourage you to sign the project: legal abortion without compromises. This is a citizen's bill that legalizes abortion until 12 weeks without the need to give reasons for pregnancy termination. Treatments would be funded by the NFZ. In the project we also have a reduction of penalties for doctors and abortion workers with the consent of the person who terminates pregnancy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We can afford European standards for abortion. We deserve... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u613	Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u614	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are places in the world that are the hell of women, places where they suffer and die, such as Saudi Arabia, Iran, Taliban Afghanistan. All of this place is created by religious fundamentalists like you. And it is you who consistently build the hell of women in Poland. It's because of people like you that Mrs. Iza of Pszczyna is dead. She won't have any more kids. What you're doing is hell. You're the reason the doctors are afraid to save lives. You're the ones who want to punish women who want to save their own lives. You want to punish women more than rapists. This is hell. When you come back to the podium - I hope this is the last time you'll be heard from the Sejm - don't hide yourself from life. Tell me what it's like to be an executioner. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u615	Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u616	High Izbo! We know from other countries where a similar barbaric law exists, what ends with punishing women by imprisonment for abortion. Her reception would mean harassing women who have miscarried, women who should be taken care of, but instead of a psychologist, they'll be able to expect a prosecutor at their bedside. Instead of backup, they'd meet with additional trauma. Today, we do not need another discussion on how to increase State oversight of our pregnancies. Today, we need the opposite of getting the prosecutors out of the gynecological offices. Today, we need a Left Rescue Act to stop punishing doctors and close women for helping with abortion. Accept this bill if you don't want more victims. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u617	Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u618	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today you say that you reject this bill because you reject all extremes and lean on this project only because it's civic, but you don't fool anybody in this room. Look, this is what heartless radicals look like dressed in sanctimonious robes. [[Applause]] If you decide to reject this bill, it's only because you have a political interest in it, because from some research you've come up with, that even for your electorate, it's just too much. Because every day your fellow Members say this: if someone raped my wife, I would not accept abortion, the child's life is sacred - Mr Zalek. The good Poles - Mr Czartoryski, are born of rape. Abortion for low reasons should be treated as murder - Mr Bortniczuk. In the name of your diseased ideological law as a result of this bill, a woman who will be raped and scared to death of pregnancy (the bell) would be sent to prison for 25 years, a rapist - at 12. About what rights We're talking women in this room? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u619	Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u620	The laws that fundamentalists have proposed scared the piss out of us, but we won't forget. We will not forget that first Polish families were taken in vitro financed from the state budget. Then Polish women were taken with emergency contraception without a prescription. Then, remember, there was TK's sentence, the cowardly behaviour of PiS and the decision given to Julia Przyłębska, the right to abortion in tragic situations for women - fetal defects, even fatal defects. But Iza's death in Pszczyna scared them, and the protests of women, those women who went out in hundreds of towns to say, not one more. That law wasn't human law. It was inhumane law, which is why even PiS got scared, but we will remember that it was the PiS that deprived Polish women of many rights. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We won't forget this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u621	Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition. Somehow you're scary. [[Voice from the room: Marshal witty exceptionally.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u622	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It would seem that this is a good sign of rejection at first reading on the part of the PiS, perhaps to withdraw under social pressure, but without illusions. It's just a sign and a hypocrisy, because the PiS is scared, but it's not afraid of protests. [[Applause]] The piss is afraid of an unveiled pedestal, afraid to sit here in the Seym, because there are cameras here, the public is watching it, there's nothing to hide, there's a recording. But the time will come for the retribution of that electorate that ignited hatred. There will come a time of payment and a demand of those who are promised, and then let us fear. We've had this situation before. Then, quietly, the motion goes to the tribunal (the bell) of this transparent tribunal, for which it is known what its judgment will be before the motion... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u623	Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u624	Ladies and gentlemen! I turn to the creators of this scandalous project. Stop the repression of women. We women have our rights, dignity and freedom. These words mean nothing to you, but they are a great value to us. This is about women's safety. Interrupting pregnancy is not a cosmetic procedure, a whim or a duty, it is an opportunity to save life and health. The authors of the project believe that the legal protection of the life of children conceived in Poland is fiction, and I believe that fiction is the flagship program of the PiS.For life, fiction is support for children with disabilities, fiction is perinatal care. You can say that fiction is also hospital care and perinatal care, because according to the report NIK is insufficient, and this project [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a project of shame, a project of contempt for another human being. Not one more. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u625	Mrs Joanna Jaśkowiak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Mrs Joanna Jaskowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u626	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have just heard a disgusting and insulting speech from the representative of the legislative initiative, a speech full of pride and contempt for the other man, and especially for women. Scorn and hatred expressed insinuating a woman's murderous instincts and lack of intellectual ability. In fact, this statement shows that a woman is not human, and as such she does not deserve to be protected by life and dignity. There were many words here about children conceived, unborn, words full of concern, worries, love. I'd like to ask you who will take care of Iza's already orphaned child from Pszczyna. Who's gonna replace her mother? [[Applause]] You? You? I'm talking to you. You? I'm talking to you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u627	Ms Katarzyna Osos, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u628	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This project should never see the light of day. You want El Salvador? I suggest you buy tickets and head out. You say you're defending life, and with these proposals you want to destroy the lives of many women and their families. Because what happens to women after such laws come into force? Death, see: the case of Iza of Pszczyna, the sentence of imprisonment or the translation to the prosecutor that the miscarriage occurred as a result of unintentional action. I have one question for you: if you're defending life like this, why don't you come here with projects that actually support families who have sick, disabled children? Where are your suggestions? Where are those projects that will provide real support for such people? There isn't, because I don't think you're talking about life, children and families at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u629	Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u630	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a bill that is horrible, disgraceful to women in Poland, even those who would never have aborted, because it treats miscarriage as a crime and sentence women to prison from 5 to 25 years, while the rapist - for 12 years. Gentlemen! A woman too, a man, and she has her rights. This shameful, horrible, barbaric project harms not only Polish women, but also entire families. Plus, it's totally unrealized, because what do you call the fact that a woman, independently of herself, loses her pregnancy and can be punished for it? This may constitute a direct risk to the health and life of her or her child as a result of miscarriage. These are unrealized regulations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a fundamentalist project that violates women's rights, violates women's rights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u631	Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u632	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear applicants? This law, a citizens' initiative to amend the Penal Code, is unacceptable, unacceptable to Polish women. Recent events have shown too clearly what the PiS has done to ensure a sense of security for women, families who plan their children. Safety is, above all, the most important factor that affects family creation. Polish family - it's a beautiful slogan, but what do you want to buy this family? Why don't you trust women, their wisdom? Women do not want to be afraid, they want to sleep peacefully, and the designers of this project want to give them tragedy, pain and suffering. This country should take care of women's lives and health. Three weeks with a dead pregnancy, the doctors said, "Let's wait, maybe something will happen." And it happened. Can Polish families feel safe? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can they trust this authority that has deceived them many times? Let's answer for ourselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u633	Now the Member who wanted to be corrected. You're welcome. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u634	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's one thing I'd like to say. The requested print project 1610 submitted by me by the Left Club should not be mentioned here at all. This is a project aimed at helping parents who have lost their pregnancy as a result of miscarriage or dead birth. It is about making it easier for them to receive all the documents and to make sure that they do not have to experience this trauma, which today, according to Polish regulations, they have to go through. It is completely inappropriate to recall our project on this shameful project. And it is not appropriate that such words fall out of the mouth of the Member of the KORWiN party, a party which has in its name the words: freedom and hope, a party which is part of the Confederation, because, please, no Polish women are freedom and no hope. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Can I answer that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u635	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're in correction mode, that's all. Would the representative of the legislative initiative like to take the floor? [[Voice from the room: No questions asked.]] [[There were no questions to the applicant.]] Mr Mariusz Dzierżawski, representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u636	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have to say, I'm amazed. I am astonished even by the level of aggression and insult which from the representatives of the Sejm fell upon us, but above all by the separation from the reality of those of the state who performed, and who apparently are not interested in what is in the project at all, and are not interested in answering the questions they have asked. I see Mr Szłapka is just preparing to leave. Mr Szłapka asked such a question: What is it like when you are an executioner? This question should be asked by Mr Szłapka to the abortions who kill children, and there is no shortage of such ones. As far as this separation from reality is concerned, the first question is: What is abortion? Abortion is a man's murder. As Mr Sosnierz rightly reminded you from the Left, even in the documents they create, they admit that the child in the womb is human. If so, abortion, especially legal abortion, is actually a death penalty that the Levites so much disturbs with regard to other people, but with regard to the small and weak, the death penalty does not disturb them. I had the impression, listening to the speeches of all or almost all of your Members, especially Mrs Czerwinska, who spoke on behalf of the PiS, that she simply did not read this project. But all the other speeches, almost all of them, apart from Mr Sosnier's speech, were evidence that they simply did not read this project. So I'm going to take a few minutes to read parts of the project and justify it. Although the Members of the Left have fled, I do not know, not wanting to expose themselves to the truth on my part. The PiS members escaped earlier. Well, with regard to our cruelty, our alleged cruelty to women, I'd like to say that 50% Abortion victims are women. All those who demanded the freedom of abortion and even the messenger of the Left promised to spread the abortion as the Left gained power... Luckily, that's not gonna happen. So this is aggression against women. I'm going back to the text of the project. Additional paragraphs are introduced to provide for the possibility of extraordinary relief of the penalty and even the possibility of withdrawing from it in the event that the child's child's death is caused by his mother. This is intended to make it possible to treat women under pressure and forced to have abortions fairly. Almost all those speakers who accused us of cruelty in this case, of course, did not read either the project or the justification. As regards punishment for miscarriage, the proposal provides for the exclusion of the possibility of punishing the mother in situations of involuntaryness by using the term: it is not punishable. This exclusion concerns the involuntary form of acts consisting, in principle, of a mother's failure to respect the care required of a person in her condition. So this horrible project disables the possibility of punishing the mother if we are dealing with involuntary guilt. There is also a need to mention the responsibility of doctors. Abortion, or action directed directly to the death of the conceived child, is not a remedy against the risk of the child's health or life. Medicinal effects on the mother may be associated with a risk to the life of the child and sometimes cause his death. In medicine, there are often situations where taking therapy involves a risk to the health or life of the patient. If these actions have been taken according to medical knowledge and art, the doctor will not be liable for the resulting damage. Similarly, if the doctor's actions to save the health or life of the mother were consistent with the medical arts, he is not liable for the harm the child was conceived. Similarly, it is not the responsibility of a doctor whose actions in accordance with medical knowledge, taken to save the health and life of the conceived child, have caused a risk to his health or life or his death. We refer to the explanatory memorandum of the article. 26 Penal Code, existing. We don't want to bring him in because he's here. It does not commit a crime, who acts to lift the direct danger of any good protected by law, if the danger cannot be avoided otherwise, and the deed represents a value less than the good saved. So that the Penal Code contains instruments that protect doctors who act in good faith. On the other hand, they do not protect doctors who, through negligence or lack of knowledge, make medical mistakes that lead to the death of their mother, as was the case in Pszczyna. A few days ago, Minister Niedzielski revealed that the report contained indications that serious medical errors occurred there. The justification for every mother's death because there was no abortion is simply absurd. As regards the 1993 Act, I would like to say that it played a positive role, repealing the 1956 Act, which introduced de facto abortion on request. Now it's just a directory of situations when you can conceive a child to kill, therefore it is redundant. All the positive things that are there are either in other laws, or they should be in them. As for the speeches made by Members of the Left, the Civic Coalition and other pro-abortion organisations and the fact that they did not refer to the merits of the project at all, I am not surprised by this, because anyone who wants children to be punishable by killing in Poland will attack this project, lyingly presenting it. On the other hand, I was surprised by Mrs Czerwinska's statement on behalf of the PiS club, because she also used false arguments. Why am I particularly surprised by this? Because the PiS last election, the previous also, won as a party that represents itself as a party defending life, under the slogans of defending life. I am amazed that it is Mrs Czerwinska's mouth that PiS abandons this rhetoric. It can be said that these declarations from the election campaign were only for election purposes, and when it comes to real action, it turns out that there are no such ones. If the PiS Members vote against this project, it will mean that they accept this situation, in which tens of thousands of children are killed illegally but without penalty in Poland every year. Everyone knows that, for even from that tribune, the messenger of the Left boasted of taking part in illegal activities. So everyone knows. Well, such hypocrisy is something that amazes me the most. Unfortunately, acceptance of the situation of murdering Polish children must lead to tragic social consequences. A few decades ago, Teresa's mother from Calcutta, receiving the Nobel Peace Prize, said that abortion is the greatest threat to peace, because if a mother can kill her child, then what's to stop you and me from killing each other. What is happening in Poland and in the world, in many places, shows that this tragic scenario is being implemented. PiS deceiving will not help, on the contrary, lead to deepening divisions, increasing hatred, because nothing good can be built on innocent blood. I hope that the people responsible for lawmaking in Poland will come to their senses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u637	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u638	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! My question is addressed to the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. I refer in it to situations that have happened recently, among others. in Pszczyna. Such situations have shown that the life and health of pregnant women is not adequately protected. In the bill presented, you have proposed a number of solutions to protect human life from the moment of conception. For what reasons have you failed to include in this project solutions to protect women's lives?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u639	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 1 December this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to sign up? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members who have been made to make statements to be closed. First, Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u640	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! November is a dangerous time for Poles. The above words, which are a paraphrase of the statements of one of the heroes of the November Night of Stanisław Wyspiański, perfectly illustrate the events that took place in Warsaw at the end of November 1830. However, before this, it is worth recalling what happened a little earlier. Napoleon Bonaparte remodeled Europe at the beginning of the 19th century. After he left in 1815, it was impossible to return to the rules before the Napoleonic period. This was also true of Polish lands. In 1795 the partition divided our lands between Russia, Prussia and Austria. Napoleon created from their parts a small hull Duchy of Warsaw, promising the restitution of the full Kingdom of Poland. But it didn't. Today we can argue whether Napoleon wanted it or whether it was a political rally. The Emperor's fall has abandoned these plans, but the concept remains. She was returned to the Vienna congress in 1815 when the Russian Tsar Alexander I decided that in a small, controlled area he would form the Constitutional Kingdom of Poland, which he was about to be king. This kingdom was to have a constitution - indeed imposed, but always - and the Sejm and its own army. In the absence of the king, the governor, the former Napoleonic general - General Józef Zabiczek, was to rule in Warsaw. History really likes to play malicious tricks sometimes. Tsar's brother, the great prince of Constantine, became the commander of the army. A little known circumstance is the fact that the famous song of God, something written by Alojze Feliński, was once treated as a song of resistance against the assassins and then the Soviets. At first it may have seemed that this experiment, as she sometimes said about the so-called. The congressional kingdom of the court camel in St. Petersburg, and it worked pretty well. The state was developing economically, the tsar promised to join the so-called kingdom. Lands taken, that is, parts of former eastern voivodships. Everything was as it should have been, but as time went by, the czar and his officials were increasingly breaking the constitution. Resistance to Russian rule was growing in various layers of society. After the death of General Bunny, the brother of Tsar Constantine ruled the state. There have been conspiracies, including in the army, which is a kind of a calling card for this mini-state. Major Valerian Łukasiński was the leader of one. The conspiracy was detected and its leaders were sentenced to a long prison sentence. The tension, however, was increasing. To this day, disputes persist, why the November Uprising actually broke out. His story is, on the one hand, a demonstration, as usual in us Poles, sometimes, of unparalleled bravery and self-sacrifice, and on the other hand, of incompetence, indulgence and mutual personal animosities, which could not be removed despite external danger. The spark of rebellion at the Infantry Sick School in the Bathrooms, which exploded under the command of Lt. Piotr Wysocki on 29 November 1830, there were events related to the great prince. The Podhorążs were running through the streets of Warsaw, shouting: weapons! But the people of the capital turned their backs on them. The underdogs were looking for someone to lead them. In the whirlwind of events, they killed several Polish generals who refused to lead them. If he hadn't joined them 4. The Line Infantry regiment, the uprising probably wouldn't have exploded at all. According to Jerzy Łojek, it was our only national break, next to the successful Wielkopolska Uprising, which had a character about Wielkopolska, which had a real chance of success. Today, let the historians judge it. We remember about those events, placing flowers here in Warsaw, in Łazienki, on ul. Senator or under the walls of the Arsenal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u641	Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u642	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Bikhniov's patented. On 28 November 1943, a branch of the German MPs came across a patrol of Polish guerrillas from the AK Major battalion in Bichniów. Mieczysław Tarchalski, ps. It's Marcin. Polish soldiers returned to their place of residence with three English airmen who fled the POW camp. The Patrol was commanded by the Resistance. Przemysław Schutz, ps. .Ludwig. Together with the occupied Englishmen and several volunteers to the guerrillas, they moved along the field road between the Krzepieki and the Bichniów farm, when suddenly out of the fog came the Wehrmacht platoon coming from Italy towards Szczekocin. The MPs saw the guerrillas and there was a firefight. The bullets killed the peasants. Przemysław Schutz, ps. Ludwig, pchor. Henryk Smarzyński, ps. Blond, kr. Stefan Sypniewski, ps. Grupa., kr. Zambrzycki, ps. Dominik, former editor of Merkuriusz Polski from Warsaw. At the beginning of a tragic confrontation, Lieutenant. Schutz instructed the English to withdraw to the palace in Kuczków, so they did not fall into the hands of the Germans and probably reached Krakow, where they were transferred to Yugoslavia. Meanwhile, the shooting at Bichniowo was heard in the camp in Zagórcz. Lt. Tadeusz Kozłowski ordered an alarm of the entire battalion and sent a horse scout to Bichniov, who opened fire from the gallop and attacked the Germans from the side, saving the last of the patrols from a complete strike. After the arrival of the platoon, the guerrillas began to attack, but the Germans took comfortable positions among the trees of the old court park and continuous series of machine guns stopped the attacking guerrillas. The guerrillas withdrew, and the Germans called for help from the garrison in Włoszczów. After all, the Germans went to a bloody trial with the people there, which, of course, had nothing to do with the action. Sunday 28 November 1943 was called bloody. Groups of gendarmes went from house to house, chasing all of them to a gathering point located in front of the house of Wawrzyniec Szydłowski. A canon of gunshots was carried through the village. Every now and then, someone was killed, badly wounded. Among the gendarmes of revenge was the wachtmeister Julius Erdman, called by the local population of the bloody Juliet. This one, coming into the houses, shot at men and women. He was accompanied by two gendarmes in this bloody procession. Bloody Julek then shot 18 people. A total of 42 people of different ages were murdered, including six people shot under the pretext of behind schedule. Three days were mourned, three days were washed from blood clots and straightened in the deadly contractions of the body of the murdered, three days were prepared coffins. Only after four days did the Germans allow the murdered to be buried. In the evening from house to house, Fr. Mieczysław Krzeminski from Secemina. He was secretly fulfilling his priestly duty. On 2 December 1943, the cemetery arrived at 42 new graves, and in Bichniów there is a place commemorating this tragic day. There is a monument commemorating the times of fighting and martyrdom of the Polish people. The names of the murdered and the modest inscription appear in visible places: They died at the hands of Hitler's executioners on 28 November 1943. Time will pass. Memory will be lost. Let this monument remind you of Hitler's crime. Places such as this in Poland cannot be counted. Each piece of it has its own history, and regaining independence has absorbed many lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u643	Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u644	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2017, the city of Tychy, my beloved hometown, acquired a built-in property in the neighbouring municipality of Kobier. The other side of the transaction was the archdiocese of Katowice. The purpose of the transaction was to build a Home of Social Assistance, a good place, a unit needed and expected by Tyshan. Neither Tychy City Council's resolution on this issue, nor the transaction, nor the subsequent investment process and the construction of the social assistance house itself, raised any slightest suspicions of any of the authorities that controlled the whole process. All control procedures have shown the legality of both the resolution and the transaction and the investment itself. Similarly, no legal doubt raised another resolution of the city council: the creation of a social assistance house and the granting of a statute, both of which were held in February this year. On the side of the Silesian Voivodeship, there is only one administrative activity left: the granting of permission to conduct this DPS, the act, would seem, completely formal, even automatic. This would be the case in the normal country, but in the PiS state there are overzealous officials of the Silesian Voivodeship who are already delaying the issue of this permit for another month. Even more interesting is the reason why they're doing this. Well, one of the more creative, or perhaps bored with lack of work, employees of the voivodship office found a 2017 discussion in the protocols of the city council of Tyszno. This discussion was attended by the present Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship, and then the councilman of Tychy Jakub Chełstowski, of course from PiS. In this discussion he expressed his doubts about the acquisition by the city of Tychy of land outside the city itself. Today there are no longer these doubts, but for an overzealous official, or perhaps for the Silesian voivode itself, it does not matter at all. High Izbo! I know that guyhood, nepotism, lack of logic in decision-making are the hallmarks of the current government, but for God's sake, this is really serious. There are more than a hundred thousands and tyshan waiting for places in this welfare home. The maintenance costs of this building have been borne for weeks. The employees are under the steam, there are rooms under the steam, one single decision is missing. I call you, Silesian voivode, to master. It's a really necessary place. It's not just a good place. It's a very, very necessary place for Tyshans and Tyshans. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u645	Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u646	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Soon, on December 4th, next Saturday, in Zagłębie and throughout Poland we will celebrate a special holiday: Barbórka, or Miner's Day. As we all know, especially in Zagłębie and throughout Poland, each of us had, in the family, among the miner's friends. Therefore, on the occasion of the upcoming Miner's Day, I wish all the representatives of this profession that they always feel safe as part of their work. I wish professional miners and pensioners a lot of health and prosperity. We are proud that you are members of our families, neighbors or friends. I'll see you on the traditional cap. It was an honor to make a wish from this place. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u647	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u648	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 2021 is the year of the 95th anniversary of the sports activities of the Bydgoszcz Rowing Club, the only female rowing club in Poland and Europe. The history of the Bydgoszcz Rowing Club dates back to 1926, when a large number of ladies applying for training in the male Bydgoszcz Rowing Association forced the creation of an independent female club. On 13 March 1927 the club was registered in the Polish Association of Rowing Associations, and in the summer of the same year the ladies took a high 4th place in international regatta under the patronage of President Mościcki and gained recognition of the entire sporty Bydgoszcz. From 1928 the club settlements had sailed from victory to victory. On August 15, 1932, the four with the helmsman won the first gold medal of the Polish Championship in history. Until the outbreak of the war, gold medals in this competition were awarded four more times to the kebabs, from 1936 to 1939. In the interwar years, the Bydgoszcz rowers won a total of five titles of Polish champions, seven times they were runners, and once in the Polish championships they won third place. In 1936, and in 1938, the club won twice the Polish team championship and took the first place in the classification of women's clubs in the Polish Association of Rowing Associations. It can be said that thanks to the Bydgoszcz rowing club in the interwar period Bydgoszcz was the most important center of women's rowing throughout the Second Republic. Sports triumphs returned to the club in the post-war years. According to historical sources, by 1996 the contestants won 92 medals in national and international regattas with the rank of the Polish Championship and the World Cup. In the contemporary years, the club's medal achievements increased by further medals of the Polish, European and summer university championships. The club raised many medalists of the country, Europe, the world, even Olympics. Among them is Anna Baranowska, participant of the Olympic Games in Moscow, Agnieszka Tomczak, the Sydney Olympics, the multimedia champion of the world and Europe, the world champion Katarzyna Weinrauder, as well as the Polish and European champion Agnieszka Tomczak, Monika Kowalska, Patrycja Welnińska, Joanna Kocikowska, Paulina Grzella, Dominika Baranowska and other great competitors. These wonderful successes were possible thanks to the trainers among whom they were and are: Mieczysław Kaczmarek, Bogdan Kościelski, Ryszard Kowalik, Henryk Rutyna, Eugeniusz Nowicki, Andrzej Skowronski, Grzegorz Jankowski, Michał Plewinski and Ryszard Chojnacki. For all the sporting successes and for raising generations of Bydgoszcz fighters on behalf of all the rowing sympathizers, thank you very much, ladies. Amateur clubs are the salt of Polish sport, and water sports can shape young characters for an adult life. Therefore, I allow myself from this place to recommend the Bydgoszcz rowing club to all those who are close to sport, including all the state and private sponsors, because each zloty transferred to the development of this club will certainly be a very good investment. I had the honour to attend the celebrations of the 95th anniversary of the club and today I have the honour and honour of this special place for Poles to wish further successes and satisfaction in sports competition, work and personal life for all players, coaches, activists and supporters of the club, as well as wishes to persevere in good health for the next 5 years until the anniversary of the 100th anniversary of your activity. Long live the BKW Baccavanka in Bydgoszcz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u649	Mr Maciej Kopiec, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u650	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Franz Kafka wrote that lying is often just an expression of fear of suffocation. The truth about the so-called. Polish Lada is extremely stuffy, dark and gloomy. This pseudo-reform was criticized by countless times, rightly and very substantively. I will not now repeat the arguments concerning its inevitable and destructive impact on the economy, Polish self-governments and the condition of Polish small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. We all know that it is this social group that you intend to milk mercilessly, even though it is they who maintain their efforts and the work of the Polish economy. Law and Justice stubbornly presents this underdeveloped and harmful plan to society as a miraculous reform. You lie directly, you lie, using manipulated half-truths. And about the horror, you also lie to pensioners, often just mining. What are the facts? So-called. The Polish Government will not only not improve, but even make the situation of some pensioners in our country worse. Yes, the poor will gain, but those who have health problems will lose, and those who have worked in difficult conditions for years. You have no mercy for them. The general rule was that the higher the benefit, the more senior he gains. Of course, that's not true. Retired persons who receive higher benefits, from PLN 4100 and PLN 4200, will clearly lose their pensioners under the regulations introduced. With the country taking over, it really isn't a lot of money. Many of them are mining pensioners, but also people from other heavy industry sectors, e.g. The steelworks have been working their entire lives in very difficult conditions. Anyone who's had a few moments with a steel furnace or a mining sidewalk knows that they've worked hard to earn their pensions. As a Member from Silesia, I must strongly and explicitly protest against this. A nine-percent health premium will be hit by seniors' pockets with higher benefits. They will also lose people working above retirement age, earning on employment contracts or doing business. The elimination of the possibility of writing off the health contribution means that, despite the increase in the amount of the free pension, some of the pensioners will unfortunately receive lower benefits. According to ZUS data, benefits of PLN 5000 gross or higher are charged to less than 5% of all pensioners. But we're talking about at least 300,000 here. persons. It's another one that's gone, among other things. A disabled social group that's too small for the government to care about, too small to worry about losing their vote. Isn't that right, Mr. President? After all, the majority of which have so far been managed by government television. Directed by the elected votes of the Silesian parachute, the government, on the one hand, conducts a distribution policy, giving another 13th and 14th pensions, several thousand PLN per child, but at the same time with the other hand quietly, takes back the group that should be protected, i.e. seniors who worked hard all their lives. Of course, it is still spinning, even accelerating the carousel of madness and wasting public money. They are not lacking for government television, Mr Rydzyk, Mr Bąkiewicz, Mrs Godek, meek self-governments, ski instructors, arms dealers and actively working program of support for families and colleagues in companies of the Treasury under the name of Hi, Uncle. And you probably don't even believe in fairy tales of great economic condition. Polish Load is not only a tax reform, but also a giant propaganda tool. Thanks to lies, manipulations and colorful slides, the government strongly portrays it as a remodeling of the entire life of Poles. Economics, however, cannot be deceived, just as people cannot be deceived in the long run. Those who write to me and appear in my parliamentary office know very well that they are being deceived by you. They're bitter and worried about their tomorrow. None of them asked me to say hello to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u651	Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u652	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is much to be said about the fatal situation in health care. Most of the attention is paid to the pandemic, which explains all the problems. The situation is much more dramatic and the exit from the pandemic will not cure it. Trouble's been up for years. Consequences? Warmia and Mazury - six hospital units were suspended in the first half of the year and eight from July 1. The main reason is staff issues. Some branches are difficult to restart because there are no full staff, which is essential for a healing activity. The biggest problems are reported by internal troops and surgery. October 2021: five branches suspend their activity and are urgently looking for doctors, including three of Elbląg - pediatric and obstetric-gynaecology in the city hospital and a neurological department in the voivodship hospital. The hospital administration has been alerting: for 5 years the voivodship hospital in Elbląg has been struggling with the lack of residents who would like to specialize in neurology despite the six residences guaranteed by the Ministry of Health. Most of the medical staff of the neurological department have recently retired, which is why the longer operation of the department with the impact division was not possible. But that's not the only problem. Doctors who are trained e.g. University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn, do not want to stay in the region. Since the beginning of the medical department, 481 graduates have been educated, 25 left in the region. There is a need for immediate coordinated systemic action to respond to a fatal situation in health care. The absence of doctors in wards is a real threat to the life and health of Poles and Poles. The situation is particularly difficult in Warmia and Mazury and Powiśle. I call on the Minister of Health to act immediately so that the situation in Warmia and Mazury, in terms of the health of their residents and residents, is definitely improving. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u653	Thank you. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u654	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Polish people and Poles! Especially you, from the generations and environments of Polish children of war. Today a special meeting took place in Łódź, and it was also held in special circumstances. Here 79 years ago, a German invader in Łódź opened a camp for Polish children. As a matter of fact, I am the President of the Parliamentary Group. Supporting the environment Children of War, those environments I promised in the previous term, that together with my parliamentary club we will adopt a resolution announcing the celebration of Polish children of war. So far, I haven't kept my word. Before me for two more years of my term, God give that my club will finally explicitly lean on the proposal to pass this holiday, which is undisputedly needed as a token of gratitude to you, generations of Polish children of war, the memory of your occupation ghetto, the memory of your heroism, but also sorrow and suffering. 80 years ago, on 28 December 1941, Heinrich Himmler, said to his officers: These Poles who walk in a stateless manner, who steal, which stink, which have a louse, must be caught and locked up in prison, locked up in a camp. Like he said, he did. Camp on the street. Industrial activity in Łódź begins on 11 December 1942 in the separate area of the Łódź ghetto. It's been working for 110 weeks. Its territory has exceeded about 12 and 13 thousand. Polish children treated beastly, cruelly, criminally. Okay. $4,000. He gave his life there. Today to commemorate that tragedy in Łódź - of course you know about it - there is a beautiful monument dedicated to Polish children of war, a monument to the Broken Heart. There we meet every year to commemorate the Gehenna of Polish children of war. A nationwide agreement was established between Polish children of war. There are fewer and fewer of you, but for you it is worth repeating the appeal from this speaker. May the Polish Sejm celebrate the feast of the Polish children of war, let him remember their Gehenna, let him give them back what is due to them - memory and honor. It so happens that today, the 79th anniversary of the opening of this camp, also has a certain specificity, just a Łódź, because there was a premiere film on it today. They taught us how to cry without tears, and so was the promotion of the book published by the Polish Children's Museum. Thank you, Prime Minister Gliński, for having created this on his initiative. Please, Prime Minister Gliński, Professor, help me to make this holiday a really big announcement. I am guilty of this as a Member who cares about this environment, about those people who, during the previous term of office, promised that we would do this. So I call on my parliamentary club: let's do it, let's celebrate the festival (the bell) of Polish children of war. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u655	Thank you very much, sir. Now, please take the floor and make a statement by Mr Dariusz Bąk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u656	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On the evening of November 29, 1830, at the Podchodziych School, the words were said: "The hour of revenge has exploded! Today you must die or win! Let us go, and let your breasts be Thermopiles to enemies. Those words were uttered by a 33 - year - old man. Piotr Wysocki, leader of the conspiracy, initiator and participant of the November Uprising. Even younger, because he was only 27 years old, Maurycy Mochnacki on the same day, on 29 November, together with a group of civilians announced an uprising on the Old Town market in Warsaw and went to Arsenal. The fight for the national existence of Poles, enslaved by the invaders, incapacitated, tormented by repression began. Operational plans for messengers were prepared by slightly older Ignacy Prądzyński, 38-year-old winner in the battle of Igania, outstanding war theorist, patriot believer that Poles can be a free nation. It is not my intention to present war activities, nor do I want to talk about the leaders of the uprising and analyze their merits or causes of the disaster. Let us return for a moment to Maurycy Mochnacki, who now happily returned to his homeland. He died in France in 1834, and his funeral took place the day before the next 191th anniversary of the uprising on Polish soil. He waited a long time for his return and due homage as his fellow countrymen owed him. This insurgent and chronicler of the November Uprising claimed that the issue of independence and the nation had lost the opponents of the Uprising. In its masterpieces of Polish romantic prose, the rise of the Polish nation in 1830-1831 is right only to young insurgents. Mochnacki's attitude and thoughts in his work sustained independence in the next generations of the enslaved nation. Independence moods, love of freedom is a force that allows not only to survive the most difficult times, but to detect threats in time, define them well and prevent defeat. After all, we know the methods of historical robbers who never give up attacking us and destroying us in various ways. Their first step is always to poison the spirit of the nation, to put young people to sleep, and, if possible, to deprave them. I believe that our nation sleeps for a while, but the inner fire will not cold for a hundred years, that Poles are able to discover that their hearts are like chivalry gutters, on which the white eagle in the crown crawls into the hands of Mother - Queen of Czestochowa, Hetmanka of Polish weapons, the victorious Lady of Jasna Góra, Vienna, Warsaw and all of today's tortured Poland. This victorious Lady of Peace watches over her nation and allows what the nations admire in us to awaken in us. The November Uprising - like all our big breaks - was important for all the great unrest in Europe. Does Europe remember that? Or maybe again those who rule on thrones fear that from Poland will blow the wind of opposition and kill the reviving ideologies whose purpose is to enslave man? The strength of the spirit is great even in the enslaved country. This force can take to battle even when attacks from everywhere, out of nowhere helping. This strength can be seen in songs that have always accompanied the fighters. In the November Uprising the insurgents also sang: "Here is freedom of singing, singing, singing, and we will shed blood, blood, blood. With our spirit and weapons, the Pole will free the earth, the traitor will smite, we will conquer... The word traitor, heavy on wine, is the key to many disasters. He's a disgrace to many and today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u657	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask you to make a statement to Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u658	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For some time now, for a few days now, we've been working on a budget for 2022. As every year, I seek the most important investments for the inhabitants of Pomerania. One of my priorities is the renovation of voivodship roads 501 and 502 as access roads to the excavation of Vistula Mierzia. I submit an amendment concerning PLN 40 million for the renovation of these voivodship roads between Gdansk, Nowy Dwor Gdański and Krynica Morska. The PiS government, when designing the excavation of Vistula Mierzieja, promised that these voivodeship roads would be renovated. Unfortunately, the government did not deliver on the promises made, even though at the meeting in Krynica Maritime, where I was present, the minister promised that both roads would be renovated. Of course, the local government of Pomorskie Voivodship as part of the funding from the Government Fund Polski Load: The Strategic Investment Programme received only PLN 63 million for the renovation of 17 km of the Voivodship Road No 501 - section from Stegna to Maritime Krynica. But this is just a fraction of the roads that the PiS government announced in 2016, when it entered the excavation of the gauges. Road 501 destroyed as a result of the construction of this excavation requires repair on the section twice longer plus on the 14 km of the Voivodeship road 502 from the New Court to Stegna. The entire Pomeranian Voivodeship received less than half of the necessary funds for the renovation of the destroyed roads due to the construction of the excavation. I appeal to Prime Minister Morawiecki to honour his promise to repair these roads made by his minister. The people have had enough of this nuisance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u659	Thank you very much, Member. I invite you to make a statement by Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u660	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! 82 years ago, on December 1, 1939, in Chelm, the Germans committed the first mass murder on Jews during World War II. How did this happen? On November 30, 1939, the German authorities in Chełma ordered all Jews aged 16 to 60 to appear on 1 December at 3 p.m. 8.30 in the central square of the city, en. Edward Łuczkowski. Many, fearing the worst, hid in the basements earlier - some also in the Chelm underground - or sheltered in the homes of non-Jewish friends. On 1 December 1939 almost 2 000 gathered in the centre of Chelm. Jews. Those who arrived in the square on December 1st were surrounded by armed soldiers. They were informed of the deprivation of civil rights and the conviction for expulsion from the city. The famous Chelm doctors David Walberger and Israel Ox were shot in the square. About an hour. 12.30 Jews placed in 10 columns of about 200 were ordered to march under the escort of 60 SS men towards Hrubieszow. The first collective execution of 20 people was carried out by the Germans in Borek Forest near the military hospital. Then there were more. In addition to the execution, the SS killed anyone who couldn't keep up or stop. Two villagers employed by a Chełm Jewish woman to determine the fate of her husband only along 36 km of Chełm - Hrubieszów road counted more than 600 killed. German reports indicate that 440 of the 1018 Jews were shot for trying to escape. On 2 December in Hrubieszów 800 Jews from Chełma Germany joined the group of over 1000 Hrubieszow Jews, forcing everyone to march towards the border. And although they were only 4 km to the border, Germany led them through fields, forests and wetlands along a circular route of more than 50 km, competing among themselves on 3 December for the number of Jews shot. The remaining men were sent to Sokala and Bełz. During the four-day march, Jews received only one loaf of bread per day for 30 people. On December 4, they reached Sokala. The Germans ordered them to cross the border, but the Soviet border guard initially refused to accept them. Many drowned trying to cross Bug. In the end, few Jews managed to escape with their lives. Few Chełm Jews decided to return to Chełm. According to estimates made during the war with nearly 2 thousand. gathered on 1 December 1939 About 150 men survived the death march by Edward Łuczkowski. The surrounding population was terrified to mention the sight of hundreds killed along the Chelm - Hrubieszów road. On 1 December 2019 a plaque commemorating the event was unveiled in Chelm. Today, on the 82nd anniversary of the march of death, let us bow to the reflection of our past. Let us work together so that there are no more such events. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u661	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Sosnier to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u662	A moment ago, Mrs Paulina Matysiak tried to deprive me of the right to use her own print project 1610 in a context that she did not like. Well, there's a classic saying on the lips. I hear it's silly, it's not good to mention it. It's better not to talk about it. Unfortunately, that is to expose hypocrisy or inconsistencies, that we show what our debater in another place admits, whether or not the consequences of his own assumptions are appealing to him at a given time. But I'm glad it hurts. Maybe this will get someone from the Left - maybe you, Paulina - to reflect on what you're actually going through. In this project, printing 1610, the child is a child, the fetus is a child, has a mother, and the mother gets a funeral allowance because this child died. It's not a piece of your mother's body. If it was a piece of his mother's body, why would there be a funeral, he'd be entitled to some kind of funeral allowance. If he rips my hand off, I won't get a funeral allowance for it. Since you admit that the death of an unborn child is a funeral allowance, it means that you know it's a man, but you only know it when it's convenient for you, and you deny that knowledge when you have to justify the disgusting crimes of child murder when you need to justify what's at your fingertips at this point. She said that as a representative of the KORWiN party, I should carry freedom and hope. Yes, yes, freedom and hope, but not only for the vaccinated, not only for those who were born, but also for all, for those women and men who were not born and who did not want to inoculate. As far as rhetoric is concerned, there is once again abuse, the usurpation of the right to speak on behalf of women. I, on behalf of my mother, my daughter, my sister, many other friends of mine, take the right to speak on behalf of women. Let them speak at best for women who want to kill their children, not for all women. You have no right to do that. No one authorized you to do that. Women, a lot of women I know don't want you to say such horrible things on their behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u663	Thank you. I would now like to see Mrs Teresa Pamula.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u664	On 5 December, we celebrate the International Volunteer Day established by the UN General Assembly. In the Lubachów district, but also throughout Poland there are many quiet, good angels, people who find in themselves a desire and empathy to help others, but also devote their time and energy to it. These are both volunteers of the Noble Pack of the Lubaczów region - 25 people, scouts and instructors of the ZHP Hub in Lubaczów - 243 people, members of 12 Caritas circles in the Lubaczów region, in which there are about 380 volunteers, the Council of Knights of Columbus No. 16380 in Lubaczów near the parish of St. Stanisława, the Lviv Lovers' Society and the South-East Kresów and many, many others cooperating with them. It is impossible to name everyone by name, but any charitable action shows how many people engage in doing good, helping others. It is therefore extremely important to pay attention to them, those who do not hesitate at all, sometimes putting their health at risk to support those in need, encouraging help. Don't you dare be good. Be good as bread. We have power together. I'm helping because others need me. These are just some of the slogans that accompany volunteers. The words of our great Pole John Paul II are best characterized by volunteers: "Man is great not because of what he owns but because of who he is; not because of what he has, but because of what he shares with others. On 6 December 2021 I organize the I Gala of Volunteering. It is organized, as I said, for the first time. I would very much like this to be a special time for all volunteers, so that it is their moment to feel needed, appreciated, that they know that their activities are noticed. I do not hide that I would very much like this edition to start another edition in the coming years. In today's world, there's too much evil, and it's important that we focus on the good. During the gala we planned artistic performances, a brief presentation of the activities of individual volunteer groups, the awarding of diplomas, medals, prizes, a great cake and the display of a beautiful film about Brother Albert This event was covered by the honorary patronage of the Deputy Marshal of the Polish Sejm, Ms Małgorzata Gosiewska. Media patrons of the gala are: Polish Television, TVP3 program Rzeszów, Polish Radio Rzeszów, Radio Via, Catholic Radio Zamość. On the day of their holidays, I wish all volunteers the strength and courage to face difficult challenges and satisfaction in doing good throughout the year and throughout their lives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u665	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u666	Statement about Robert Lewandowski and the Golden Ball Gala. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From this place I would like to congratulate our leading footballer Robert Lewandowski. Yesterday there was a big sporting event - the Golden Ball gala. Robert Lewandowski received the award for the best attacker, while Leo Messi finally reached for the Golden Ball. Our countryman was second. Robert Lewandowski was a contender for this award a year ago, unfortunately the gala did not take place because of the pandemic. This year the difference in votes between Messi and Lewandowski was only 33 points, and according to many leading sports editors yesterday the choice was not fair. For me, and I suspect that for every Pole, the best is Robert Lewandowski, whom I congratulate once again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u667	Access for disabled persons to information using electronic services. Access to information using electronic services is certainly one of the most important areas for the functioning of people with disabilities in the field of information and communication. Experts indicate that people with disabilities have problems with the use of Internet sources and interactive devices on their own. It creates, for example. difficulties in handling various types of official matters. Current technical capabilities allow for the creation of resources that are fully accessible to all audiences, including those with a disability in the visual organ and in the hearing organ. It is pointed out that public entities are gradually introducing the recommended changes in the access of disabled persons to information using electronic services. According to the available data, only 1,7% in 2013 the public administrations surveyed met the minimum requirements. In 2015, this figure developed at 13%. , reached 22.9% in 2016 , and in 2017 it was 47.8%. The trend is therefore clearly increasing. I am convinced that further work by many government institutions and bodies will increasingly improve the indicator on access for people with disabilities to information using electronic services. Thank you for the daily involvement of many people who show that supporting people with disabilities is a very important task today and involves responsibility. Together with the staff of my parliamentary office, we are helping to the extent possible and competent with regard to these activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u668	Parliamentary statement on investments supporting the development of tourism in Głogów. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Odrza Bay, now known as the Neptune Bay, was created as a result of a two-year investment (1931), whose main objective was to straighten the Oder stream from the Seev Small to the height of the rowing club's buildings. Before World War II, Neptune's surroundings were vibrant and gathered residents and tourists from the region. Today, the Dolnośląskie voivodship authorities, together with the city authorities, want to return this place to the residents and tourists and develop the bay area and the Neptune building. The project envisages the construction of a river harbour at the bay along with the construction of the necessary accompanying infrastructure and the development of the area, making the area more friendly and safer for both people and nature. The project also provides for a thorough modernisation and adaptation of the currently unused building Neptune, in which the Natural and Tourist Information Centre of the Odrzański Route will be established. The facility will be adapted to the needs of people with disabilities, equipped with RES installation. Three viewing terraces and a green area with elements of small architecture will be created directly at the marina. The project also provides for the construction of an inter-city bicycle road. The project aims to ensure that all future users of the complex are taken care of - it will meet the needs of residents, visitors and athletes. Głogów will gain its attractiveness and will certainly attract tourists from all over Lower Silesia. On the tourist map Poland will appear another interesting and attractive place. The enthusiasm of the investment is not covered by self-governments from Głogów County, who with one voice support the essence and value of this project. Nearly two years from now, the Głogów region will gain a new face, and the Neptune Bay will become Głogów's card.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u669	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Appropriate financing of health protection is one of the key elements in terms of the possibility of providing adequate conditions for the treatment of citizens by bodies providing such assistance. That is why we were amazed to learn that the National Health Fund is behind payments to the Beskidzy Oncology Centre. These arrears, when it comes to the scale of needs, are enormous and reach several million zlotys. This is an absolutely unacceptable and harmful situation. Maintaining this condition threatens that in extreme cases the Beskidz Centre for Oncology, which provides medical services to oncology patients, will not be able to provide benefits. It's hard to imagine a worse scenario. It will put people in extreme danger. I therefore ask the Minister of Health, Mr Adam Niedzielski, to explain this situation urgently and to take decisions which will result in the transfer of all outstanding funds to the Beskidzki Oncology Centre.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-01-sejm-43-2.u670	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 2 December 2021, by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 20]]
