ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u1	Resume session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators located in the Senate building, please check whether all of you have disabled applications to participate in the sitting remotely, and your senators who attend the sitting remotely, I inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will proceed to the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please report the results. 60 senators voted and so many are attending the sitting at the moment. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: information from the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the control in the Justice Fund. I would like to welcome the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, Mr Marian Banasi, present at the meeting. I ask the President to take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Transparency is a prerequisite for efficient use of public funds. Without transparency, there is no effective and effective implementation of public tasks. Let me begin with these words with the presentation of the results of the checks in the Justice Fund, the checks so important and socially expected, especially by the victims and their loved ones. The audit under the name "The implementation of the tasks of the Fund for Victims and Post-Penitentiary Assistance " was the first such comprehensive study covering the entire spectrum of activities of the Ministry of Justice as the authorising officer of the Fund for Justice in the period from 1 January 2018 to 30 October 2020. The audit was carried out by the Department of Order and Internal Security of the Supreme Audit Chamber together with 6 NIK delegations, i.e. in Bydgoszcz, Łódź, Warsaw, Katowice, Opole and Kielce. In total, 39 very experienced controllers were directly involved in carrying out the controls. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out once again why NIK has taken control. In carrying out the audit of the state budget for 2017 and 2018, we have negatively assessed the operation of the fund, among others. because of the illegal transfer of PLN 25 million to CBA. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the CBA law, this entity should be financed from resources exclusively from the State budget. This provision was not included in the Budget Act by accident. Its aim was to avoid a situation in which the service responsible for prosecuting and tracking corruption will be in a conflict of interest when it is to prosecute persons who have previously provided significant financial resources for the functioning of the CBA. It is worth recalling that, despite the notifications made by the Supreme Audit Chamber of the possibility of breaching public finances by spending public funds without authorisation or by the former head of CBA Ernest Beja and Michał Wosia, who was then acting by the authority of the Minister of Justice as the authorising officer of the Justice Fund, Piotr Patkowski, the current Deputy Minister of Finance, with the provisions of 14 September 2020, despite the clear statement that the actions alleged by the Supreme Audit Chamber comply with the signs of a breach of public finances discipline, refused to initiate an investigation procedure on the grounds that he considered a negligible degree of harm to public finances. Please judge for yourselves whether we are dealing with little harm here. The reason for this audit was also that in 2017 there was a fundamental change in the legal basis for the functioning of the Justice Fund. On 12 August 2017, the amendment of the Article entered into force. 43 of the implementing criminal code, followed by a new regulation of the Minister of Justice on the Fund. At that time, the Fund's new objective, which is closer to undefined crime prevention, was set up and funding was made possible to a wide range of statutory tasks of public finance entities. In view of the circumstances of the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the resolution of 20 November 2019 decided to introduce this control of the Justice Fund into the NIK's work plan for 2020. Before I proceed to the general assessment described in the information on the results of the entire audit Information published on the Supreme Audit Chamber's website In the first place, I will refer to the assessments made to the authorising officer of the Justice Fund, the Minister of Justice. In a follow-up to the Minister of Justice on 6 audited areas of the Fund From the legal and organisational conditions of the Fund through the planning of tasks and the preparation and execution of the Fund's financial plans, the delegation of tasks and the granting of funding from the Fund, the execution and settlement of contracts, agreements concluded with the beneficiaries for the implementation of the Fund's tasks and the control of the fulfilment of the tasks entrusted by the Minister of Justice, activities promoting the Fund's activity which you can see in the media recently, until the results of its tasks have been identified as 23 irregularities and 18 follow-up requests have been made. The negative assessment of the Supreme Audit Chamber concerned primarily the tasks commissioned by the Minister of Justice in the context of the new fund's objective in 2017 to address the causes of crime. 25% was granted for its implementation the total value of the targeted grants, i.e. over PLN 170 million. In the absence of a definition of the concept of "anti-criminal action', as well as the incorrect organisation of competitions, the Minister of Justice financed tasks not related to the objectives of the Fund and not directly related to the enigmatic theme of anti-criminal action. In addition, the Minister abused the special non-election method of granting subsidies. To a large extent, he commissioned the so-called. research projects which did not comply with scientific and research standards and whose main objective was to support the statutory activities of their operators. Of all the 16 agreements examined to combat crime, the Supreme Audit Chamber considered 13 contracts to be pointless and non-economic, with over PLN 63 million being co-financed. The audit also showed that the Fund supported to a large extent the implementation of tasks which were not directly linked to the assistance of the victim and were, in fact, used to finance the selected arbitrary units of the local government. As an example, it would be possible to identify tasks relating to the provision of voluntary firefighters for more than PLN 140 million and health and safety facilities for more than PLN 35 million. Finally, out of PLN 681 million grants granted from the Fund during the period under scrutiny, only PLN 228 million, i.e. 34% were earmarked for assistance directly provided to victims of crime and to the people closest to them, and PLN 24 million, i.e. only 4% For post-penitentiary assistance. In the assessment of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the adopted amendment to the implementing criminal code, as well as the regulation of the Minister of Justice on the Fund, resulted in the practical introduction of the Justice Fund to some kind of mechanism, a tool aimed at financing an unlimited category of actions only on the basis of arbitrary, non-verification of the recognition of the Minister of Justice. In the opinion of the Supreme Audit Chamber, a mechanism was created, among others. caused: infringement of the nature of the special purpose funds referred to in Article. 29 Law on public finances; completely any and non-transparent distribution of public funds in total of over PLN 350 million; spending funds of the fund not in accordance with the requirements of Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 point 1 of the Public Finance Act, i.e. breaching the principles of purpose and savings and obtaining the best results from the inputs concerned, as well as optimal selection of methods and means to achieve the objectives pursued; non-compliance with Article. 33 and 34 of the Public Finance Act on the transparency of the monetary economy of the State, expressed in the failure to make public information on the amounts of grants granted and their beneficiaries, both in the case of grants awarded as a result of competitions and in non-election procedures. In order to illustrate the situation, I will use some examples of other audit speeches. The Minister of Justice granted the Foundation a grant of nearly PLN 10 million from Opole to help victims of crime, even though the Foundation was registered in the National Court Register a few months before the offer was submitted, had no experience in supporting victims of crime, had no premises or personnel resources and, contrary to the obligation under the grant agreement, did not mobilise 4 local aid points. This led to the early termination of the grant agreement, which resulted in a lack of availability for a period of 1 year of benefits from the Justice Fund for several hundred beneficiaries of aid in the Opole Voivodeship. In addition, in August 2019 the Foundation commissioned a preventive tournament for children. However, the Foundation did not provide the organiser with information on the health status and special needs of children qualified for the turnus The children suffered, among others. for autism, epilepsy, mental delay, depression, bipolar disorder, anxiety disorder, and also did not specify the specialized requirements for staff to take care of its participants. The intention to organize the rest was not also notified to the Opolskie school curator. Thus, the foundation caused a direct threat to the life and health of the beneficiaries of the aid. The Minister of Justice, because of his lack of supervision over the use of funds, did not see that assistance to victims of crime in many cases was implemented in a context of a serious conflict of interest. Examples of these deficiencies were situations where the function of the first contact person, who was responsible for identifying the needs of the applicant, was linked to the function of the consultant. In the case of the Lex Nostra Foundation, the same persons were both in the role of first contact and in the role of legal advisers and received 2 independent salaries. In extreme cases, the same persons were also beneficiaries of the aid, additionally acting as victims of crime. The Minister of Justice, due to the lack of supervision of the use of funds, did not recognise the paid performance of project tasks by the managers of individual NGOs. In the case of the Association of Honorable Hearts, her vice-president served as a specialist in the project, a lawyer giving consultations to victims of crime, in a small village, collecting revenue in the amount of more than PLN 256 thousand within 14 months. In the case of the already mentioned foundation Lex Nostra, the first person involved in carrying out the tasks entrusted to the entity by the Minister of Justice was the President of the Board of Directors of the Foundation, who was entrusted with the function of first contact with remuneration for 3 months in the amount of over 61 thousand PLN, although during that period the Foundation had not yet provided benefits to the victims. The Minister of Justice for the lack of supervision of the use of funds of the Fund did not recognise the numerous family-social links between the foundation authorities, the association and the persons holding the substantive functions, as well as between those persons and commercial entities where goods were purchased for the purpose of the contract. A clear example of such links was the said Association of the Hidden Hearts, in which the legal consultation for the beneficiaries of the aid was given by the vice-president of the association, who was the son of the president of the association. The person responsible for the 24-hour call was a member of the review committee of the association, who was the second son of the president of the association. On the other hand, the daughter-in-law of the association was on call, and in the course of her business she sold food and goods vouchers to the associations which were transferred to the beneficiaries of the aid. The Minister of Justice, in the absence of proper supervision of the use of funds of the Fund, did not find that the tasks entrusted by the authorising officer were incompatible with the provisions of sub-contracting to a profit-making entity. For example, the audit carried out at the Lex Nostra Foundation showed that, instead of carrying out the tasks entrusted by the Minister in the field of legal and psychological support to victims of crime, it was commissioned by Lex Nostra, sp. z o.o. It should be noted, however, that the director of the Foundation Lex Nostra was also the chairman of the Management Board of Lex Nostra Sp. On the date of signing the agreements between these entities, the President of the [[Joy in the Chamber]] This led to an increase of nearly 100%. the costs of legal advice provided through the company in relation to the actual costs of the service provided by the natural person employed by the company. In conclusion, it must be concluded that the control of the Justice Fund has shown inter alia. that the Fund had lost its character as a special-purpose fund, duplicated expenditure incurred by other constitutional ministers from the central budget. The Minister of Justice has only allocated 34% of the funds at his disposal as the manager of the fund for assistance provided directly to the victims of the crime. In addition, the results of the audit show that the Minister of Justice illegiblely prepared and supervised 16 competitions for non-governmental organisations under control, made discretionary and unjustified changes to the recommendations of the competition committees, abused the non-election mode and made no public information on the grants granted to individual entities and supported any of his elected bodies in the public finance sector. In this respect, I would like to stress that the Minister of Justice, using the powers which he himself has conferred on himself in the Fund Regulation, is set out in Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and Article 22 (2) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) of (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) of (iv) of (iv) of (iii) of (iii) and (iv) and (iii) of (iii) of (iii) of (iii) of (iii) of (iii) of (iii) of (iii) of (iii) of (iii) of (iii) of (iii) of (iii) 2, the second sentence of the Regulation was taken by undocumented, arbitrary decisions to refuse the grant, despite the indications For example, under the authority of the Minister at the time, the director of the Department of Family and Minorities at the Ministry of Justice, Mikołaj Pawlak, reminds me that this concerns the current Ombudsman of the rights of the child, who, by hand, deleted 8 offers recommended for funding from the competition committees, including 2 which deserved the highest score in the evaluation of the committee. Information on the reasons for the refusal of the grant was not included in the competitive documentation nor was it provided in the correspondence forwarded to the tenderers. The same Mikołaj Pawlak, representing the Minister of Justice as the manager of the fund, resigned from the measures originally planned to have a real impact on the situation of victims of crime, since he withdrew without any justification from carrying out tasks concerning the construction or adaptation of the so-called. friendly interrogation rooms for children. At the same time, it should be noted that the construction of friendly children's hearing rooms was one of the main arguments set out in the justification for the revision of the Code of Criminal and Enforcement, which allowed for the extension of the scope of tasks carried out by the Fund. In addition, Mr Pawlak, acting as Director of the Department of Family and Minorities at the Ministry of Justice in 2018, assisted in the preparation of a special non-election offer of the State Higher Vocational School in Raciborz, and then, acting under the authority of the fund manager, concluded with him a grant agreement for over PLN 1 million. Is it possible, therefore, to talk about objectivity and equal access for all actors to fund funds? You can answer this question yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, in describing the lack of proper supervision of the Minister of Justice of the Justice Fund, it is also impossible to pass indifferently alongside the sudden interruption by the already mentioned Foundation, Ex Bono, from Opole, of the benefits provided to victims of crime and of the lack of access for a period of 1 year to support from the Justice Fund in the Opole Voivodeship. Even a few hundred people were left unsupported. Unexpected interruption of assistance, e.g. In the case of victims of domestic violence, it could strengthen victims' feelings of helplessness and their dependence on perpetrators. This is confirmed by the statements of the persons. One of them said: "I was looking for help in another organization, but I did not make any contact. Ex Bono didn't give us any support, the phone didn't answer, there were times when the call was redirected. Ex Bono has never helped us, I've never met anyone from this organization, he's never made contact with us, we've been deprived of help. Against the background of the above findings, the conduct of Mr Marcin Romanowski, who, especially after the publication of the results of the audit, so uncritically speaks of his involvement in the findings. It should once again be made clear that during the entire period of implementation of the 2 research projects under the control of the NIK, the Institute of Justice and the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, Marcin Romanowski was designated as the head of these projects, who in November 2018 was appointed as the Deputy Minister of Justice for the Fund, and in June 2019 as the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, corresponding inter alia. for overseeing the fund. In the case of another project led by the Institute of Justice, the agreement on its implementation was concluded in the so-called. as director of the Institute of Justice, by Marcin Romanowski, when he already held the post of representative for the fund, whose task was inter alia. supervision of the funding of actions proposed by public finance actors. Mr Romanowski therefore represented at the same time the applicant for a grant from the Fund and at the same time the body which grants such funding. In view of the above, Mr Romanowski seems to be the last person to speak on ethical issues and the correctness of the conduct of the controllers. No one can be a judge on their own case, and in this case, he was a judge on his own case. Its unsubstantiated allegations that the actions of the auditors are political in nature show that it does not understand the role of the Supreme Audit Chamber as the highest audit authority and that there are no other arguments. I would like to point out and stress that the results of the audit of the functioning of the Justice Fund are the result of the reliable work of the House controllers and the report itself defends itself with its quality. After all, it was not the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber who made the factual findings and found the irregularities described in the statements and information on the results of the checks. Public disclosure of the results of the audit is my primary statutory duty as President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. In contrast to the findings, supported by evidence collected in the control files, the position presented to the public by Mr Romanowski was completely unsubstantiated, purely political. It is particularly outrageous to try to make instrumental use of the noble idea implemented by the foundation of the "Akogo" which is the construction of the Clinic of the "Budzik" for people who are in a coma. I would like to make it clear that the audit carried out by NIK at Mrs. Ewa Błaszczyk's foundation showed no irregularities, and no statements of representatives of NIK were ever addressed. Contrary to the claims made by the representatives of the Ministry of Justice In her good name. A specific problem whose beings apparently do not see, or Politically motivated They do not want to see the representatives of the Ministry, it is a question of whether the Minister of Justice could grant such a grant. As the audit has shown on the basis of evidence collected during the control of foundations and ministries, the response is negative. However, it is only the Ministry's fault and not the foundation's. If someone is already trying to reconcile in the good name of the foundation, this is Minister Romanowski, who organized his conference on the building site of the clinic, trying to use this noble idea as a specific shield to cover numerous irregularities found during the fund control. It arouses my personal objection. Perhaps it is worth that Mr Romanowski poses at the conference against the background of empty property on the outskirts of Wilanów, where the Profeto Foundation intends to build a facility for over 43 million PLN received from the Justice Fund, which will be located among others. a showroom, a recording studio and 3 directors. What is the overall assessment of the functioning of the Justice Fund? The Supreme Audit Chamber has negatively assessed the actions of the Minister of Justice to ensure the proper legal and organisational conditions for the functioning of the Justice Fund, as well as how the public resources at its disposal are used. The financial economy of the fund was conducted in breach of the basic principles of public finance, i.e. transparency and the purpose and savings of public expenditure. Nor did it correspond to the functioning of special purpose funds resulting from the Public Finance Act, i.e. the implementation of separate and well-defined public tasks. The actions of the Minister of Justice and a large proportion of the organisations that received the grants resulted in a mismanagement and non-target public spending, as well as in the emergence of corruption mechanisms in the case of those making decisions on spending and the clearance of funds of the Fund. The total value of the financial effects of the control of NIK, i.e. the amounts of funds spent in breach of the rules, wrongly and economically or incorrectly, amounted to more than PLN 280 million. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, this audit has clearly shown how much danger to the interests of victims of crime, but also to public finances, can result from the lack of adequate supervision of the tasks of the special-purpose fund. The provision of the Minister of Justice with discretionary powers in the area of law-making, while not defining by the legislator the meaning of the new objective and tasks of the Fund at the statutory level, has turned into a claim to the unlimited disposal of public funds by the Minister of Justice. High Izbo, due to the scale and rank of the irregularities found, including the identification of corruption mechanisms, as President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, acting on the basis of Article. 62 of the Act on NIK, I informed the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, and the Head of the Central Anti-corruption Office, Mr Andrzej Stróżny. By letters addressed to them, I stressed that the irregularities identified by the NIK concerned multi-million amounts and could be treated in the category of activities affecting the economic interests of the State and causing at least material injury within the meaning of Article. 115 §7 of the Criminal Code. I have made this decision because NIO has no necessary statutory powers, in particular investigative powers, to clarify all the links and mechanisms that could have been behind such decisions and not other decisions on how the Justice Fund was spent. I would like to believe that in the sense of responsibility for the welfare of the state and citizens, these authorities will take all necessary measures to clarify the circumstances of the occurrence of irregularities revealed by the NIK and that the guilty persons will be held liable. I would like to inform you that, as part of the control of the functioning of the Justice Fund, the NIK has made a total of 74 follow-up proposals to remedy the most significant irregularities, of which 18 have been addressed to the Minister of Justice. In particular, I would like to draw attention to one of these proposals, which calls for legislative work to be initiated to amend the Penal Code and the Fund Regulation, aimed at limiting the objectives of the Fund to the 2 tasks originally assigned to it, namely support for victims, members of their families and witnesses, as well as post-penitentiary assistance. In this respect, I have decided to apply to the Constitutional Court for a declaration of non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the laws of the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 13 September 2017 on the Justice Fund. From the information I have obtained, it appears that my application has been accepted by the Court for consideration. The direct result of this audit is also the submission of 5 notifications of suspected crimes by persons associated with the Opole Foundation and 2 notifications of a breach of public finance discipline, including one directly related to the Minister of Justice. The latter includes a number of infringements of the rules in force. Ladies and gentlemen, the High Izbo, the Justice Fund, is a dangerous example of the fact that the fund in question goes beyond the framework of the general concept of the special-purpose fund, beyond the original objective for which the fund was set up, as evidenced by the full title of the fund. This mechanism is so dangerous that it allows for very instrumental treatment of the special purpose fund as an additional financial source for activities and operations with a sound economic rather than political impact. As a consequence, this fund is no longer linked to the original purpose for which it was set up and which was to designate, at least, the full name of the fund: the Fund for Hurtful Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance, the Fund for Justice. High Izbo, the results of the audit of the Justice Fund were presented at the press conference on 30 September. At that time, journalists asked whether the NIK controllers qualified, for example, any of these promotional activities of officials of the Ministry of Justice. as funding someone's campaign. In the context of this question, I would like to stress that the CBA in its 2016 publication entitled "Political corruption." Guidance to the authorities elected in the general election has clearly defined what political corruption is, indicating that corruption is, in general, an abuse of a position or function in order to achieve private benefits. During the period under examination, the Minister for Justice spent over PLN 95 million on information and promotion measures. And at this point, I would like to inform you, as President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, that I have decided to carry out a special check on the spending of funds on promotions and further deepening areas that have not yet been investigated and that there may be very serious irregularities. The subject matter of these activities went far beyond building the recognition of the fund, and the programmes and publications produced within them were not only used to educate potential beneficiaries, but also to promote the actions and concepts of the Minister of Justice himself. As I have already mentioned, I hope that in a democratic state of law it will be in the action of the authorities called to prosecute crimes, in particular the CBA, to answer the right questions raised by journalists. High Izbo, may I, on the example of the Justice Fund as a special fund, draw your attention also to the wider problem. The progressive debudgetisation of public finances is an important threat to public finances. I mentioned this threat on September 17th this year. When presenting a report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber for 2020 to the Lower House of Parliament, a report which, without any substantive reason, is not adopted by the Sejm, and this is the case from 2016 onwards, which, moreover, meets with the deep opposition of the auditors whose hard work for the Republic of Poland is thus depreciated. Then, despite the disrespectful attitude of some of the Members of the Sejm who, without respecting their constitutional duty to hear the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, have left the House of the Sejm, I strongly emphasized and do so today again that there is an urgent need to restore the budget of the State of appropriate rank, related to its particular character and its central position in the public finance system. The justification for such a position was the finding of a significant financial imbalance of the State in 2020, which was caused inter alia. planning and carrying out major financial operations leading to an increase in public debt, excluding the State budget. These included, in particular, operations involving the transfer of tax bonds and lending to different entities in 2020 instead of grants which would normally increase the expenditure and deficit of the state budget by almost PLN 30 billion. Moreover, many financial operations leading to an increase in the State's liabilities, which merely apparently did not increase public debt according to national methodology, provide for a reduction in the state budget. An example of this was, among others, the practice. issue of bonds of the Polish Development Fund and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund with a total value of more than PLN 166 billion, whose repayment and service is guaranteed by the State Treasury. The Supreme Audit Chamber is therefore concerned about the further progressive devaluation and marginalisation of the importance of the State budget, resulting in the possibility of showing any result in the budget of the State, which makes the plan no longer relevant for the assessment of the financial situation of the State. In this respect, as President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, and as former Minister of Finance, I pointed out in the Sejm that the state budget is a fundamental instrument of governance and thus political power, and therefore sets in the State of law the boundary between the exercise of this power by individual bodies and public authority agendas with government administration at the head. In order to reflect the importance and importance of the budget law, I would like to recall the words of Prof. Zyta Gilowska, who stated that in democratic reality the state budget plays the role of the institution of the last chance in public finances, is a bailiff of public finances and a central managing, powering and controlling body. The High Izbo had 12 special-purpose funds until 2005, while the 2019 Budget Act included 29 State-owned special-purpose funds, costing more than PLN 291 billion. By 2020 state-owned special-purpose funds were already 35 and their dispatchers managed public funds representing more than 18% gross domestic product, while still in 2019 it was 13% GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, let the control of the Justice Fund not only be a warning about what lack of proper supervision of the special funds leads to, but also a warning for all those who are at heart of the good of our country, including the ladies and gentlemen of the senators gathered here, a cause for increased concern for the state of public finances. We need to answer questions that have never needed to be answered so urgently before, including, among others, questions.: Isn't the formula of the state special fund, including the Justice Fund, an escape from the rigour of the budget law? Should the players in the budgetary economy, through the institution of funds, be given autonomy to raise and spend significant public funds? Does the general and accounting statement of revenue and costs of special-purpose funds give real grounds for any parliamentary control of the fund economy? Does not the negligence in the supervision of funds and their managers presently create room for excessive and unjustified discretion of fund managers, both in the area of lawmaking and enforcement? Has the fund economy not escaped public control of public finances? Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Audit Chamber, in view of the scale of the irregularities found in the Justice Fund, will continuously monitor the public spending by the Minister of Justice and respond with all determination to cases of illegal, uneconomic, ineffective or unreliable disposal. I have therefore decided to carry out a special audit, as I have already said, on the spending of funds allocated to the Fund, as is apparent from the information on the results of the audit, not only to promote the Fund itself, but also to a wide-ranging media campaign aimed solely at promoting the public funds of Mr Ziobra as Minister of Justice. In addition, in the forthcoming review of the implementation of the State budget for 2021, in a specific way, we will examine those areas of operation of the Justice Fund where the most irregularities have been identified. I would also like to point out that the Supreme Audit Chamber is listening to the voice of non-governmental organisations and will respond to all signals of irregularities in the provision of public funds. Already today, I can inform you that in connection with the information that the Minister of Health of the Foundation has deprived the children of the power to finance their child's and youth's phones I have decided to carry out another special inspection which will explain all the circumstances of the Minister's decision on this matter. Because of the role in society, we give our children the strength to help those most in need and, at the same time, the weakest and most vulnerable members of our community, i.e. children, this issue needs to be thoroughly examined and clarified, but also because in this particular case the Minister of Health cancelled the competition, even though this fund has won almost the maximum number of points in the evaluation of the competition committee. I would like to point out that the Foundation gives the children strength, for unknown reasons, also did not receive funds from the Justice Fund to run centres for children, even though it provided comprehensive assistance to children victims and their guardians. Ladies and gentlemen, thanking you for your attention, I would like to publicly declare that the faithful of my oath will do my utmost to ensure that the Supreme Audit Chamber, as an independent, chief state control body, courageously and uncompromisingly upholds the applicable law and the deliberate and economic spending of public funds. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're gonna ask you to stay at the podium because there are a number of senators' questions. If the president can stay, you're welcome. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! In one opinion, I would like to thank the auditors for their inspection. You said to the president that after the audit, whose results were announced in 2018, and which, like now, has negatively assessed the functioning of the Justice Fund... I myself directed the notice to the Ombudsman of public finance discipline because of the violation of the law and illegal spending of money from the Justice Fund by handing it over to the Central Anti-corruption Office. Do you think that the decision by the Ombudsman of public finance discipline, which then refused to initiate proceedings for violation of public finance discipline due to the slight degree of social harm, contributed to the fact that the scale of these irregularities, which at the time concerned 25 million PLN, increased and now concerns 280 million, and even as the President presented today, 350 million? Is this decision... Following the cancellation of this procedure, all this is shown by the fact that today we are talking about the fact that the level of irregularities in public spending has increased. Second question. What do you think, or for victims of domestic violence, beating women, beating children, e.g. in Opole region, which was completely deprived of help by the fact that there was no resort there... Was the real help from the Justice Fund worth millions of dollars spent on studies on the sustainability of marriage in Peru, China or Japan, or the analysis of Sapkowski's books and fantastic literature? Will this really replace the financing of real assistance to victims of crime, including victims of domestic violence, abused women and abused children?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u6	Mr. Senator, as to this first question, I can only answer in one sentence: of course, I fully agree with you that this has had a decisive impact on the fact that we have met with such a large scale of irregularities. Of course, in the second question, too... First of all, we should take care of the victims here, on the spot, in our country, because this is our duty, and all the activities that have been carried out, concerning marriages somewhere in other countries, in Peru, etc., are matters that are absolutely to be dealt with later.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u7	Thank you very much. Are you ready for all the senator's questions... Yes. Senator Eve Matecka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u8	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr President, from the information you have provided, it is clear that the funds that are owned all of us, citizens, and those at the disposal of the public authority, are spent in an inefficient, unintended way, without precise criteria. This information also shows that the special fund at the disposal of the Ministry of Justice has long lost its original character, has changed the purpose for which it was intended, and these measures are very minimal. Or they're not really at all For assistance to victims and witnesses, post-penitentiary assistance. You also mentioned the duplication of certain expenses and actions. Therefore, please tell us to what extent public authorities and public authorities' expenditure, which are different forms of aid, are duplicated.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u9	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u10	Mrs. Senator, we've only examined a certain proportion, a certain percentage of the expenses that were borne by the Justice Fund, so it's hard to tell what the scale of the whole thing is here. We'll give you written information about the details, because we need to pull this data from the control file. [[Yes, I'll have a written reply. Thank you very much.]] Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u11	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator Halina Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u12	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! We know how important it is that information about the fund is available to reach out to the beneficiaries for whom this fund was created. I'd like to ask you about a case like this. Does the audit indicate whether a competition for promotional and information and advertising activities of the fund has been announced or whether this task has been entrusted without any competition? If so, for what amount was this task commissioned, what was the promotion, and who did this task? That's the first question. And the second question, which may not be directly related to the information presented, but also concerns control. This morning the President gave an interview and informed that the controllers were sent to the Polish-Belarusian border. I would like to ask when we can expect the results of this check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u13	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u14	To answer the second question, I'll say it like that. In the coming days, because the control is, you can say, during, we will decide when eventually our controllers will appear at the border to see what the situation is. As for the first question, as in the previous case, I will answer in writing, because these details need to be extracted from the control file.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u15	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask Senator Janusz Bubbler's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, when spending public funds, we must exercise every care to ensure that they are spent on purpose, cost-effectively, adequately, but also transparently. In municipal, district or voivodship local governments there are so-called. Internal audit and control cells, which are kind of fuses for wojites, mayors or city presidents. How is it possible that such huge funds spent by the Fund have not been used such classic solutions to ensure that planning, accounting, but also supervision, are conducted fairly and professionally? Is it an oversight, a lack of consideration, or maybe? What's the worst? The Minister of Justice's deliberate action?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u17	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u18	Mr. Senator, I must say that as far as the scope of the audit cells is concerned, they obviously have their responsibilities. And what was the reason for not checking, let's say, the expenditure on the Justice Fund, at the moment, it's hard for me to say. We'd have to do a check-up here so we could answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u19	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Breja's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. President, you're revealing corrupt mechanisms. Do you assume, in view of the criminal analysis carried out by the services subordinate to the President, that there was an organized criminal group within the Ministry of Justice whose purpose was to carry out criminal activities, simply to carry out these funds, these funds? I take into account, above all, the Minister's lack of reaction, despite repeated reporting, the transmission of signals to him of irregularities, and the personal links which the President also pointed out. Secondly, Mr President, is the Polish State able in 2021 to verify these cases reported by the States? In your view, is the prosecution in such a condition, in such a systemic form, capable of verifying the participation of the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General in this case? And after yesterday's ruling of the Julia Przyłębska Court... After all, when cases were dropped at the D.A.'s office, it was always possible to count on the activity of the judge; he even ordered the D.A.'s office to drop the case, to consider, to examine the state of the case. Isn't the President concerned that, in the case of such strong instruments of submission to judges to the prosecutor general, the Minister of Justice, this case may not be recognized at all in court because the judges will be afraid to move it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u21	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u22	Senator, I'd like to point out that I'm not a politician, I'm an official. It's a first. Secondly, we are not an investigative body, we are a control body and we are only giving an assessment on the basis of our findings. That is why we also addressed the notification and requests to the head of the CBA, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and to the Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński responsible for security. So that as far as this thread you're talking about, I expect the relevant addressees to whom we've sent these notices to deal with this case, and we'll know if what you're talking about has actually happened.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u23	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! First question. When we read the report and listen to what the President is talking about in terms of the scope of control Let me remind you: 21 entities, including the authorising officer, the Minister of Justice, 20 beneficiaries, including 14 NGOs, 16 open competitions, are such a question: is there 1 thread, 1 organisation, 1 grant made transparently, in a fair way, in the whole group that you have examined? It is what the President was talking about, that public money should be spent under special supervision and meet the requirements of fairness, honesty, transparency and purpose. Are there expenses in all this weight that can be said to meet such requirements? That's the first question, Mr. President. And the other. Although the President has already said that in part. I listened to you on the TV show this morning. But I have to ask you this one more time. Deputy Minister Romanowski said that's all you're doing. I'm gonna talk about it in a nutshell. It is in order to avoid the situation when President Banas will be brought before the justice system. This is one piece or thread. And the second thread concerning Mr. Vice Minister Romanowski. If the president could mention the most important thing again... How is it possible for the authorising officer to allocate money for himself or for his friends? This is a curiosity situation. Don't you think these two statements, these two facts are very closely linked? You have revealed something that, as I say, does not add to Mr Romanowski's splendor, which is why my thesis is that this first phrase is a proposal after your control.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u25	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u26	Senator, I answer the first question: yes, there have been such cases that these grants were properly granted. As for the details, we'll give you the information in writing as well. To answer the second question, I just want to say this: it wasn't Banas who ordered the control, it was the group that works in the Supreme Chamber of Control. planning at the request of Members. And the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber adopted the implementation plan by resolution. So we were doing the tasks that were legally entrusted to us by the College of the Supreme Auditorium. So this has nothing to do with privacy. So all these statements are typical political statements that have no real coverage. We're based on facts and findings. The checks are carried out by the best controllers, outstanding experts The results of our control indicate this. The quality of these controls is increasing. Thank you very much. [[One...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u27	Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u28	Mr. President, I have such a heartfelt request for your written reply. If only the most important thing could be shown. That so many checks were correct, that they met the requirements you spoke of, and so much did not meet... And how much is that going to be?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u29	Good. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u30	Thank you very much. Senator Arthur Dunin's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u31	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Supreme Audit Chamber, the controllers, the employees, because I believe deeply that you are professionals and reports that come out of the Supreme Audit Chamber are really factual, correct and objective. In connection with your appearance and information, the hair is on the head of the hedgehog, because the Ministry of Justice, it would seem, should ensure the regularity of the proceedings as regards the activities of the courts, the speed of action of the courts, and it seems after you have said that it only works effectively for the time being when it comes to spending money, and it is illegal. You have already raised a question that I would like to ask you, Mr President, but you have raised it in a family context as regards the foundations that you have controlled. And I would like to ask you whether you have examined them for the knowledge of these foundations directly with Minister Ziobra, as well as with Members of Parliament who are members of a party of Minister Ziobra. I'm talking about two foundations I've read about in various media. There's one foundation you've been talking about. It's about the Podhale. Our House and the Hidden Heart. Because I'd like to know if it's true that one of the people who was the head of this foundation and was the Councilor of Law and Justice, but from Solidarna Polska, passed on at some point Following receipt of these funds from the Fund The money for the functioning of the political party. And the second foundation. I would like to ask you here, because this applies to the region I come from. It is Patria et Lexa from Łódź, to which these measures have really come into the huge... And if the president could also tell you what the money was and if it was spent... Because 1 help centre was to be established in Łódź and 5 smaller centres in other places of the Łódź voivodship. Were they created? Has this money been settled? Again, the same question: did it have anything to do with who was on this foundation, who was building this foundation? And is any of the parliamentarians of Solidarna Poland also like a patron holding an umbrella over this foundation? I understand that the President is apolitical, and you only look at it in terms of funding, but the corruption that the Ministry of Justice is digging under the authority of Minister Ziobra is terrifying. So I would very much ask that the President respond to these questions and answer them. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u32	Thank you very much. Before giving the floor to the President, I would very much ask that these questions be shorter. Remember the time. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u33	Mr Senator, let me answer briefly: we have not studied this in terms of belonging to a political party of one or another member of the foundation or association, we did not have it in the program. That's one thing. As for the expenses you asked for, we will also respond in writing in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u34	Thank you very much. Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. President! I will only briefly remind you of the facts that we already know very well, but since they concern the same person, the Minister of Justice, it is worth recalling them. I'm thinking about the so-called. the reform of the judiciary which the Minister started, explaining the need to support citizens, and it turned out that it was actually the sole reason for it to politicise the Constitutional Tribunal first, later the National Court Council, and then the prosecutor's office. This stopped at independent judges who did not allow this total destruction to be completed. And I think about it in the context of the next task that the Minister is doing, which is the Justice Fund. And another, another question about this fund. Please tell me: when it comes to spending money on voluntary firefighters whose continued funding is very necessary and absolutely necessary, did they really have to be financed from this fund? And is it true that in 2019 for all applications submitted to the Fund, it was absolutely discretionary and it became de facto the electoral fund of the politicians of one group, as you said today? I just want to confirm whether all the money spent on voluntary firefighters was actually spent in discretionary mode in 2019, i.e. in pre-election time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u36	There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u37	In our information and in our follow-up speeches, we addressed the specific expenditures in very detail, so that you can review carefully our information, which is on our website and is available. However, as I said earlier, we did not examine the party affiliation of individual individuals who received these funds, but simply looked at the actors and the way in which these funds were granted. And as I said, there were cases in which these funds were correctly allocated, but there were also cases when this was done in violation of all rules and procedures. As for the voluntary firefighters and the subsidies received by the voluntary fire brigade, we do not question the needs of the voluntary fire brigade, we are only questioning that it was made out of these funds, because in fact, voluntary fire brigades are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior and Administration, and actually the needs of voluntary fire brigades should be financed from its budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u38	Thank you very much. Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, in the Senate, I represent the citizens of the Opole region, who have been famous for their integrity, integrity, responsibility and diligence, who have been appalled for several months by the press reports on the Justice Fund, confirmed in the report by the NIK, which revealed an example of a ghost foundation, because that's what we can probably call the Ex Bono Foundation. And because of how this foundation worked, I'd like to ask you a few questions. The first of them. What was the cost of maintaining the four-month operation of the "Ex Bono" Foundation in Opole? How and for what was 10 million PLN spent? How many people have been cruelly treated by the Ex Bono Foundation? I have said cruelly treated, and I will now mention as an example the word of one of the experts who deals with the victims. What kind of help do they need? Crime victims, e.g. Domestic violence is often withdrawn, frightened people. You have to take care of them very professionally, because one inappropriate word, one inappropriate word can make them never come again. Moreover, in most cases psychological or legal assistance lasts months or even years. Mr. President, the Ex Bono Foundation disappeared after 4 months of day by day, leaving the victims even with several thousand debts. Why? The next question: how many foundations are in Poland dealing with the aid of victims of violence, in which the President receives a salary of PLN 60 000 for 3 months? And could you repeat the family ties of the foundation? Because I'm already lost in this long cycle of family on my own?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u40	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u41	Mrs. Senator, I spoke about all these things in my speech, and as far as the details are concerned, we will present in very detail all the answers to your questions in writing, if you don't mind. [[I'm very sorry you don't want to do it again.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u42	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u43	Mr. President... [[Voice from the room: The card doesn't have...]] ...I'd like to ask you two questions. Will this be the only recommendation de lege ferenda, the one regarding the revision of the rules on the code of offences, or is the President also thinking of a regulation that will objective the procedure for supporting victims of crime in material terms? That's the first line. And two: is it possible to count on other cases of public spending outside the elementary rules to be controlled by the Supreme Audit Chamber? I'm thinking about spending on supporting Polish activities. As you know, the Senate was responsible for this under open and objective procedure. Today government agendas, above all the law firm of the President of the Council of Ministers, are doing so according to a classified and non-spective procedure. Is it possible to control this? There's a motion from the Senate to make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u44	I answer the second question: we are in the process of analysis. So that in the coming days or weeks we will answer whether we really have enough potential to take such control. As for the first question, of course, we are also analyzing the materials that in this control... And I'm sure that element you're talking about will be taken into account. And we will try to clarify all possible solutions that would solve this problem that we are talking about. And he causes irregularities and irregularities in the spending of funds from the Justice Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u45	Thank you very much. Senator Magdalena Kochan, remotely. Do we have a call from Senator Magdalena Lover? [[I can see and hear...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Magdalena Kochan, can you hear us? Because we don't. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Maybe next time. There you go, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, I hope that you have no doubt that today the prosecution is a political instrument and is manually controlled, and has been so hierarchized. Special forces such as the CBA also operate in the same way. Therefore, the follow-up proposals that you are directing there, I think, will meet with the same as other requests made to these institutions in very obvious cases concerning activists in the current ruling party. So it is not to be expected that, in the current political situation, the matter will be resolved in any way by these authorities. There's an instrument the Sejm can use. The committee of inquiry. But with the current parliamentary majority, the appointment of a committee of inquiry is not an option. It is also possible for the Supreme Audit Chamber to conduct open proceedings. What you're talking about is the tip of the iceberg you're discovering from us. I am referring to such obvious connections, such as the case of the candidate for president of Rzeszow, perhaps Mr. Warchoł, while the deputy minister who arranges equipment for the Rzeszow hospital on the phone, from this fund discussed here. It is evident that Poles need to hear the truth. In fact, the only effective mechanism that exists is that publicly, openly, in front of the cameras, we conduct explanations and proceedings of the Supreme Auditorium. Do you consider such a solution? That's the first question. I'd like to take this opportunity to ask you a second question. It also concerns important economic interests, energy security. For a long time we have heard that the President of the largest energy group in Poland, a man who has to take various strategic decisions regarding energy security of Poles, the President of Orlen company, Mr Obajtek, does not have appropriate certificates related to secret, top secret documents. This means that there is really no possibility of rational and fully conscious decision making related to energy security of Poles. And we're dealing with a lotus merger right now. Today, precisely today, Mr. Obajtek is to announce some important decisions in Maya in Lithuania. The case concerns PGNiG etc. Is the Supreme Audit Office also going to investigate why, for what reasons, President Obejtek did not get this... We already know that he didn't ask for it. But why didn't he show up? Whether these are reasons related to his unclear business relationships or some kind of illness, e.g. mental illness? He himself spoke of such a disease once, so it is not an abuse that I ask such a question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u47	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u48	Thank you. Mr. Senator, I'm referring to energy security. We can only speak when we are actually out of control, as we can today comment on the results of this audit. With regard to the first question, I must also say that the Supreme Audit Chamber act in accordance with Article. 7 constitutions, i.e. on the basis of law and within the limits of applicable law. We have no other option except that if we're aware of the suspicion of a crime, we're directing it to the D.A.'s office. It's up to the D.A. to decide what's going to happen. I know that we may still be able to take advantage of the complaint to the court. And such cases have already occurred, that the court has taken into account our complaints. That's when things are different. As for this special check, in which we can possibly conduct public hearings, we are considering this. Perhaps we can carry out such a check. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u49	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u50	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. President, I have a question, maybe a little philosophical nature. Namely, we hear about controls. I would refer here to the question of envelope elections and this report on envelope elections. The State makes specific proposals, and the party who has been audited claims that the auditors have totally misunderstood the legal basis, misinterpreted it. That's the kind of argument that comes up. You apply to the D.A.'s office, the D.A.'s office dies. What is the situation on this particular case? Are you going to regret these decisions, regret those decisions? At what stage are these cases? Because the public doesn't know exactly what the situation is, no one is reporting. The report is prepared by professional controllers with many years of experience and experience, so these are not random people, they have great skill and, so to speak, many authorities have already controlled. These are long-term controllers, they are not people who have been working in the Chamber for two to three years. But the controlled party claims that there was a bad understanding here or, as there are no other arguments, that there was a higher necessity, because that was the situation, pandemic, etc., etc., etc. If from the state it does not find some objective solution, then, so to speak, it hangs a little bit in the air and is another element indicating the quality of our public life. What is the House's idea on this matter, however, to lead to these decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u51	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u52	Mr. Senator, for today we received two redemptions from the prosecutor's office concerning Polish Post and the Polish Securities Printing Works. Of course, we filed a complaint in court. As for the others, we don't have a resolution for today. Of course, the problem is very serious. My proposal is this, and we are working on granting the Supreme Chamber of Control the powers of prosecution, so that we can file our indictments directly to the court, even though we have outstanding experts who know very well about it, who can defend their arguments before the courts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u53	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u54	Can I ask you a question about that? That would require, as I understand it, a revision of the Supreme Chamber of Control Act. [[President of the Supreme Chamber of Control Marcin Banaś: Of course, it requires...]] Now the question is whether it will be the will of this change. It's a little philosophical, a little political...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u55	It'll show the future. I hope that the people responsible for Poland, regardless of the options they come from, will understand what the problem is and how to approach the issue, so that this solution is primarily for citizens and Poland. Because first of all, our concern is to serve Poles and Poland as best as possible. One party or another cannot be an end in itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u56	Thank you very much. I'll ask. When would the President apply to grant the House prosecutor's authority?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u57	I think we're going to try to take this initiative again this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u58	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Magdalena Loven, remotely. [[Mrs. Marshal, can you hear me now?)]] Yes, I can hear you now, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u59	Thank you very much. Mr President, I join all the votes that thanked the employees of the Supreme Audit Chamber for the reliability and professionalism of the checks carried out, all the more so because they carried out them in the Ministry, which, according to the name itself, should be able to uphold the law in Poland, so it was probably not an easy or pleasant task. Two questions. The first concerns the role, for me completely incomprehensible, of the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, Mr Nicholas Pawlak, in granting or deleting specific tasks to be carried out by the Justice Fund. Why, on what legal basis did the Ombudsman take part in the allocation of funds from this fund? In your report, it seemed that he had removed some of these tasks and introduced others. He deleted the task of building, creating friendly interrogation rooms for children in courts, which is a scandal in itself, because these rooms serve to make children, often victims of crime, asked by psychologists and judges about their attitude towards their loved ones, to family in the event of family conflicts... They must be interrogated in conditions that are friendly and harmless to the child. If the spokesperson for the rights of the child removes such a task from the set of tasks to be financed, then in itself this is a scandal. The second scandal is that Mr. Nicholas Pawlak, the spokesperson for the rights of the child, had no legal basis for it. He's a different organ. Why would he do that? Have you studied this subject? Please tell me whether you have found the legal basis for such actions by the Ombudsman of the child's rights. Second question. Are you familiar with the reactions of the same ombudsman to the irregularities and harm suffered by the participants in the rest of my life? I am thinking of children with deficits, with autism, with bipolar disorder. Who was to be organized by Ex Bono? Incidentally, I will note that the names of the organizations which are so generously treated by the Minister of Justice sound at least cynical. Are you familiar with Mr. Nicholas Pawlak's reaction to these irregularities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u61	Senator, I don't know his reaction, but our investigators have determined it was a serious irregularity. She was posted in the information that was formulated after the check. E.g. That's why we're revealing this irregularity. [[I'll ask you another question. So you're...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u62	Senator, I have a request that these be short questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u63	Yeah, really. So you consider it an irregularity to allow Mr. Pawlak to decide on the allocation of funds from the irregularity fund... Yes? I mean, the justice fund. Well, I didn't make much of a mistake.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u64	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u65	That's not how it works. We simply state that these measures should have been allocated in the first place to the creation of special interrogation rooms for children. As for the families... [[Mr. President, we don't understand each other.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, the president is not finished. You're remote, so the president can't see you.]] [[I'm sorry.]] The role of the Ombudsman himself is the second thing that we describe and stress. He acted as if he were one and the other. It is incomprehensible to us why he did so.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u66	Thank you very much. Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, while joining the voices expressing respect for the work of NIK controllers, I would also like to express my satisfaction that they meet here, in this Chamber, two of the last independent political power, independent state institutions. You represent the Supreme Chamber of Control, and we create an independent Senate of the Republic. The third institution is, of course, the Ombudsman and his office. The results of your review of the Justice Fund are shocking. I would like to ask you if you believe that this is an exception, or whether you have discovered some broader truth about today's state, after six years of PiS rule. You were talking about growing special-purpose funds. The state, ministries, state offices grow into various foundations and funds. It is very unclear to spend huge public money from them. Very often this is related to such behaviours that you mentioned, namely nepotism, the fact that the beneficiaries of the funds are ultimately party colleagues. Do you plan to control such institutions as: The Polish National Foundation or I'm only mentioning some of them. The National Freedom Institute? In the case of the latter one in Poznań, the case is that almost PLN 1 million of the National Institute of Liberty passed on the Poznań Project, the beneficiaries of which are the Poznań Councillors of the ruling party PiS, including the sister of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Szynkowski, aka Sęk. Will you be the next funds and foundations in which the Polish state has grown in recent years, to control? And I repeat this first question: how much have you discovered the model of the current state management, and how much is this exception?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u68	There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u69	Mr. Senator, like I said, we give grades. Only on the basis of the checks carried out and that is all we can confirm, comment. As for the control plans, we are in the process of drawing up the plan for next year. Of course, we take into account all the proposals that go from Members, Senators, various NGOs. On the basis of these conclusions, after an analysis, we are making a control programme, a plan to be implemented next year. If there are such proposals, we will undoubtedly lean on them, and in these areas we will eventually also carry out these checks.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u70	Thank you very much. I have a question, Mr. President, in some sense related to the previous one. The first question is that you notified the D.A.'s office of the pressure on controllers to report adversely to the government. I have a question as to whether there was such pressure on this check and on others, and if there were pressure on others, which one. And the second question about the operation of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Since the beginning of the year, the Marshal of the Sejm has not appointed any of the 27 proposed candidates to the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber, and it is the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber that adopts the annual work plan, accepts the results of these checks and approves the documents. Is there a threat? And if so, how much time might this be going on? That the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber can stop sitting? What's that gonna put on your job?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u71	As of today, it can be said that the college is functioning normally. And it will last at least a year, because it is not until next year that some of its members end their term of office. That's one thing. Secondly, I have asked your marshal to appoint members of the college. These 27 people, very competent... Recently, this has been the case for people who, in their previous term of office as well... I was also talking about your professor who was in college in the previous term. As far as our employees are concerned, they were employees with a lot of experience, with a great deal of work. Well, unfortunately, they weren't accepted. I've repeated this request and we're waiting for an answer. Let's see what happens next. With regard to exerting any pressure on controllers during this audit, which took place in the Justice Fund, I must say that we have not observed any action here which would jeopardise the independence of the controllers. I care very much about it. For me, the independence of the controllers is the independence of the entire House. And that's the first goal I have. If such situations occur, we will take the appropriate steps immediately. Such steps have been taken in the case of the action of one of the Vice-Presidents of the State Prosecutor's Office. After the complaint that was taken into account by the court, the DA's office is questioning... Because in the first phase, the controllers who reported such situations weren't even interrogated. They're being interrogated at this stage. I hope that the case will be settled properly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u72	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u73	Yes. Thank you very much. I have a quick question. But first I'm going to refer to this, and I'm going to add that there's no confusion... The Child Rights Ombudsman, Mikołaj Pawlak, was an employee of the Ministry of Justice and Director of... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to ask for some peace of mind, because it doesn't matter.]] I'll start over. Just so there's no doubt... Mikołaj Pawlak, the current spokesperson for the rights of the child, was the director of the department at the Ministry of Justice at the time, I understand, the control of the NIK, and it is from that time that these irregularities originate. Dear President, I would like to ask you whether there were any audit requests relating to Mr. Nicholas Pawlak, then director of the department, or whether you applied for punishment, with, as I understand it, evidence that he deliberately removed entities from the list, despite their high assessments and recommendations of the committee. And then there's the second line. Could we be informed of the entities that have entered the place of those who have been expelled? So what projects fell and what projects entered this vacant place under the arbitrary decision of the then director, Mr. Nicholas Pawlak, the current Ombudsman of the rights of the child? My second question is this. The Polish Television did not broadcast your conference, but transmitted the response of the Ministry. I know that at the moment there is a control regarding the management of assets and finances in the Polish Television. Please answer when it may end, when we can expect information about it and the results of this control on TVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u74	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u75	In answer to this second question, I would like to say that the control on Polish Television has been completed, but the appeal procedure is ongoing, reservations have been raised. Well, it's hard for me to tell you how long it's gonna take right now. Once the whole procedure has been completed, the results will be announced. As far as Mr Pawlak is concerned, I must say that no conclusions regarding this person have been directed or dealt with. [[And the list of those entities that have been deleted?]] Well, the list of entities, because it's too detailed information, we'll give you in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u76	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Brejza again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u77	Thank you. Mr President, you mentioned notifications about other controls, controllers, but I have a question about whether anyone put pressure on you in any form, suggested that you withdraw from any control or limited its scope. That's the first question. Second question. You mentioned that a third of the funds from the Justice Fund went to the victims. I listened to your interview today and to such a very toned assessment of your President as regards the funds transferred to the Foundation,.Lux Veritatis, father of Tadeusz Rydzyk. According to your knowledge, the 7 million PLN allocated to the foundation of father Tadeusz Rydzyk
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u78	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u79	To answer this last question, we had no objections as to the correctness of the grants transferred. As far as my person and possible pressure are concerned, all I can tell you is that at the time when the results for the presidential elections were to be announced in correspondence, a mail was sent to almost most of the delegations of the Supreme Auditorium, stating that my son was about to commit suicide. This morning, at 6:00 p.m., the police showed up at my wife's apartment, my son's, and there's a conference at 9:00. So answer yourself, whether it's pressure or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u80	Thank you very much. Senator Brejza wants to ask. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u81	This is indeed an outrageous event. I understand it was reported. Has the unsub been identified? That's the first question. The provocation, the hit on your son?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u82	The strange thing is that here CBA or ABW, the police are unable to find the source, to determine where it came from. I think we're gonna end up cutting this case off. [[Voice from the room: Coincidence...]] [[But despite the passing of the year and the measures being taken to determine, I don't know, the IP number...]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd also like to inform you, since you're already asking that it's just a matter of fact that, well, people arrested are being forced to give false testimony when it comes to me. I have evidence to prove it, and I'm going to file a report to the D.A.'s office on this case soon.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, okay? [[Maybe just one more question.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u84	The question, Mr President, about the purchase in 2017 of a system on which the international investigation of several large editorial offices is ongoing, among others. - Guardiana, Washington Post. Of course, I am referring to a system for hacking phones and downloading data that is not in line with the proposals for managed operational control, control that can take place from the moment of approval of the application, i.e. Pegasus system, which sucks e.g. Texts from many years ago. Can the President confirm that an illegal system was purchased from the Justice Fund, which serves the illegal activities of the special service in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u86	Mr. Senator, we weren't in control of this case. We only have one piece of information after the inspection, which Senator Kwiatkowski mentioned earlier: we know that the Justice Fund has transferred 25 million to the CBA. And when it comes to buying, it's like we're out there, and we can't say anything about it because we didn't have any control.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u87	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Janusz Gromek. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u88	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! I've learned a lot from the media information on the Justice Fund, but what you've provided today is that the results of the inspection, not by you, but by the professionals, is an acute crime. It is a pity that there is only one senator sitting on that side of the bench at the moment, because they should also listen to these statements, because you are telling the facts and the truth about it. Let me ask you a question, but first, since I have the opportunity to see here you, I would like to ask on behalf of millions of Poles and Poles, Polish houses, to carry out a control of the increases in electricity and gas prices which are already and will come again. I know that the European Union will even investigate, because the scale of these increases is very high, the percentage is high... For the future, it wasn't about that. One brief question, Mr President: do you have protection in connection with the results of this inspection?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u89	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u90	Mr. Senator, we don't use any protection, we believe we live in a free democratic country and we do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u91	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u92	Mr. President, I have three short questions. The first is: in your opinion, whether the claims of taxpayers who have passed, in good faith, in accordance with the law, would be justified by 4% your income to the Justice Fund, if that money has been spent illegally? If the taxpayer asks for that money back, it would be reasonable... [[Voice from the room: It's not the money.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: These are not the...]] Yes? Okay. Second question. Do the irregularities found fulfil the characteristics of the offence and have you therefore filed a report to the prosecution that the offence was suspected of being committed? And to your knowledge, is this a course of action being carried out? And my last question, but I'd like a written answer right here. How many associations after 2015 have been deprived of funding? I'm talking about associations that have been working for victims or, well, domestic violence. Why am I asking this? Because from my region, from Zielona Góra, from Lubuskie Voivodeship, such an association of Baba, which acted sensationally, helping the victims, and was cut off from any funding. I repeat the question: how many such associations and organisations have been deprived of subsidies and any assistance from the Ministry of Justice after the current rulers have taken over? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u93	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u94	Mr. Senator, as far as this last question is concerned, as you said yourself, we will hand over this information in writing, precisely because of the details we need to collect from the inspection file. And as far as the notices are concerned, as I reported, five notifications have already been made to the D.A.'s office. Two of them were a violation of public finance discipline, one of which directly concerned the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u95	Thank you very much. Senator Władysław Komarnicki. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u96	Now, wait a minute. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, I am impressed by what you and your controllers have discovered. I think that in the history of the Republic of Poland, for the last 30 years, there has not been such an issue in the Polish state. But my question is quite specific. I am Vice-President of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and have unofficially learned that there are huge losses caused by mindless decisions. These people should be held accountable. I mean, Mr. Chairman, about Ostrołęka. Did you start anything here? Do you intend to review the situation that is taking place there as part of your control programme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u97	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u98	Mr. Senator, this check is on completion, we've been running it for a long time. Once it is completed, we will also inform you about the results of the inspection. [[Mr. President, I have one request, just because I asked several times at the committee meeting and I didn't get an answer. If you'd be kind enough to answer in writing, I'd appreciate it.]] Yeah, we'll get that information in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u99	Thank you very much. Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u100	Mrs. Marshal, thank you. Mr. President, a check at the Ministry of Justice, a check on the purpose of spending from the Justice Fund, is just a confirmation of a certain trend, I would say... I'm going to use the following phrase: a certain pathology. After all, we remember the results of the audit of the Convicted Professional Activation Fund. The funds from this fund were intended to go to the implementation of the programme, the work for prisoners, and we remember that the results of the control of expenditure from this fund ended with the referral by the Supreme Audit Chamber to the prosecutor's office. I would like to ask the President, what are the results of the prosecution's actions in this area and whether the repeated abuses in the Ministry of Justice, certainly shown... They are presented by the Supreme Audit Chamber, but also monitored, these proposals are forwarded to the President of the Council of Ministers. Did the President of the Council of Ministers, in any way, forward his position to the Supreme Chamber of Control, the announcement of some action, conclusions after the first incident, and after the second process in which the funds from the Justice Fund were examined? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u101	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u102	Mr Senator, we have received a reply from the Prime Minister that he has made an appropriate letter to the Minister of Justice asking us to respond to our allegations and our conclusions from this review. [[I'm just gonna... I'm gonna ask you, Mr. President, about the results of the prosecution's actions after the notification of the Supreme Chamber of Control of Abuse in the program.]] Today, at the moment, there are no regulations yet. I think they should show up in the next few days. If we receive such provisions, we will take appropriate action, in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u103	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u104	Yes, thank you very much. I have two questions for you. First question. You're directing applications to the D.A.'s office. The prosecution is supervised by the Minister of Justice, he is in fact the person responsible for the operation of funds such as those criticised by you in the Justice Fund report. Do you believe that the prosecution can take appropriate action on this matter and are you considering the possibility of directing these cases in a different way than in the way in which the NIK traditionally, according to the law, directs these requests? And second question. There have been various attempts to paralyze your work personally through various pressures on you, on your family, on various pressures. The same goes for the college, that's what the marshal asked you. It seems that there is a real threat in fact in the finals As you said, after a year of paralyzed an institution as important as the NIK. Are you considering any other activities that NIK might be able to protect against de facto paralyzed her work as a result of such activities rather than other government activities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u105	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u106	Mr. Senator, well, we have no options other than those that are in our jurisdiction as the Supreme Auditorium. We're making proposals in accordance with applicable law. Plus, there are authorized prosecutors... We don't have any other options here, as I said, we can't use any other means. Other means are possibly... In the case of waivers, we may file a complaint with the court, possibly exercising such powers. As for the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber for the future, as I said, for at least a year we are not in any danger of paralysis of the Chamber. I am convinced that, however, there will be sobering and reasonableness, and that once again, if I ask for the appointment of members of the college, this proposal will be dealt with positively.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u107	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u108	Following Senator Breyza's question, I would like to ask you to clarify the transfer of the amount to the CBA. As I understand it, the control room doesn't know what the money was spent on right now. I understand that it is possible, however, to take control. Whether you plan to take control of the CBA on your own initiative or e.g. The senate could take the initiative to check... The point is that this check should be In open or secret mode So that we can be sure that this Justice Fund will be checked to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u109	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u110	Senator, the case is open. There hasn't been that kind of control so far. Perhaps... Once the applications have been received, they will be considered and then we can make such a decision to take the check.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u111	Thank you very much. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal, I just wanted to clarify. I have asked the President a few questions and the President has given me a commitment to prepare my answers in writing. Some of the questions were answered in a general way in his speech, but I would ask him to answer all my questions in writing in detail. That's all, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u113	Thank you very much. [[I'm still...]] That's where we left off... [[One more thing.]] Oh, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u114	I will also ask for detailed information in writing on the expenditure on these organisations, associations and foundations in the Łódź Voivodeship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u115	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President. A series of questions is over. [[President of the Supreme Chamber of Control Marian Banas: Thank you very much.]] I inform all of you that the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber has undertaken to answer in writing the questions asked by Senators Ewa Matecka, Halina Bieda, Leszek Czarnobaj, Artur Dunin, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Barbara Zdrojewska, Wadim Tyszkiewicz and Władysław Komarnicki. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We can approach this discussion in two ways. We can approach this discussion about the control of the Justice Fund in such a way that we see here the essence of the family programme on our According to what you write in your information, the audit has shown that the actions of a large part of the beneficiaries of grant contracts have resulted in an uneconomic and non-targeted public spending. Sometimes it's sad not to say humorous. When, in the information of the Supreme Audit Chamber, we read that the beneficiaries are organisations implementing policies relating to the assistance of victims of crime on a purely family basis. E.g. Mr President, who is the head of the entire family, in a given foundation decides on the spending and the funds are spent on the so-called. a family help phone that serves the son and daughter-in-law while other family members provide accounting and administrative services. It sounds humorous, but there's a tragedy behind it. This is the tragedy of those to whom this aid does not go, because of course it goes somewhere: these funds from the foundation go to the company, because the person who is the president of the foundation is also the president of the company and transfers to the company public money intended to help victims of crime. You can be humorous about it, but we can't approach it that way. We're talking about hundreds of millions of public money. To me, it is extremely sad, because as Minister of Justice, I have appointed the Justice Fund. I set up a Justice Fund to pursue specific objectives. It was intended to replace the earlier inefficient system of references allocated by courts, which it turned out, sometimes, in individual and individual cases, were wrongly spent by some associations or organisations. However, I would never have thought that an irregularity in individual organisations would be replaced by an institutional system of irregularities where the level of public expenditure carried out in accordance with the public objectives assigned to the fund is significantly lower than the level of funds that are wrongly spent in the assessment of the Supreme Audit Chamber. This system that worked effectively before... When I was Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice acted as counsel for the victims of crime. It was composed of representatives of social organisations who had been consulted, advised, pointed out the objectives which were to be financed from these funds, which would be made available to victims of crime in the broad sense. What do we got today? Today we have an institutional system of waste of this money, as President NIK has just said, for personal, political, social entities. Does this mean that there are no people in Poland to whom this aid should go? Ladies and gentlemen, according to the 2019 data in Poland, there are about 75 thousand completed forms under the Blue Card procedure. According to the police estimates, the number of people suspected of being violent is 88,000, per year, including 65,000 women, 12,000 children and 10,000 men. In Poland in 2019 we had 2 000 909 road fatalities and more than 35 000 victims of crime. Ladies and gentlemen, in Poland there is so-called. the public compensation scheme. The State Compensation for which the Minister of Justice is responsible shall be entitled to victims of certain offences. It is a subsidiarity mechanism, i.e. the exit from state aid where the victim cannot obtain aid from other sources. Why? Because it has severe bodily injury or health damage as a result of a crime, e.g. a traffic accident after which there is no information about the perpetrator because he escaped from the scene, or in a situation where someone died and left in the family the persons who were dependent on him... All of these people are going to receive state compensation. That was the rule. The compensation was intended to cover loss of earnings, medical expenses or hospitalization costs. You're gonna ask the question: how does this help get to people? Ladies and gentlemen, the number of requests for state compensation granted in 2018 is the latest overall data That's 34. We're talking 34 people across the country. The system of helping victims of crime consciously ignores tens of thousands of those who have been affected by crime, domestic violence. They don't get help. The Polish State, the Minister of Justice responsible for these matters, disregards the fact that 34 people in Poland have benefited from the aid of the public compensation system. The amount paid to them is PLN 332 thousand across the country. We have just heard that 280 million zlotys have been wrongly spent, 95 million zlotys spent For what? For the promotion of the fund. And the people to whom the aid should be provided are ignored by the Polish state. Didn't the Senate notice? The Senate noticed that. The Legislative Commission came out at the beginning of this year with a legislative initiative adopted by the Senate as a whole to extend the rules of public compensation. We have proposed a solution whereby this compensation could be paid from the Justice Fund. You will ask the question: what is happening with this legislative initiative? She was sent to the Sejm many months ago and was not even given a printing number. Today we are talking not only about the shame of the Minister of Justice as responsible for the fund. Today we also have the right to say that this shame should reach the Marshal of the Sejm, who, seeing this report and knowing that there is no money for the people actually affected by the crime, stops working on a project that would allow effective aid in the context of public compensation to those in need. This would be possible as a result of the adoption of an amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget one more thing. The Justice Fund... Its full name has always been the Fund for Hurted Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance. In Poland we have thousands of young people, children staying in correctional facilities, in shelters for minors, in youth educational centers, in children's homes. There are 16,000 700 children in institutional care. Especially when the child is older, when it has entered into a conflict with the laws, there are no people willing to adopt them. Ladies and gentlemen, as a person who once supervised juvenile correction facilities and shelters, as a former Minister of Justice, I will tell you what the Polish state has almost no money in practice. He's got the centers running, but then the baby... This is a child who is often 18 years old or a little more. After leaving the plant, from a nursing home, such as a juvenile shelter or MOW... You leave this child to yourself and it often returns to a family that, let's call it by name, is a pathological family. And unfortunately, the pattern of colliding with the law is the pattern that this child sees in his place of residence. There is no money for this Polish country For sheltered housing, social housing, housing to self-emancipate these young people. It is a shame that in Poland in the 21st century, we have the money to study marriages in Peru, and we do not have the money to make it possible for a young man, a child, to leave the institution, e.g. Junior shelters, help to self-emancipate, find an apartment so that it doesn't have to go home where you drink, fight, and often also get on the road of crime. Therefore, this report from our point of view should be assumpt to take further steps to ensure that the Polish state, that the money that is in the Justice Fund, is not at all in order to constitute the electoral fund of Law and Justice, Solidar Poland or any other political environment... This is the money that is supposed to go to the victims of the crime, to be transferred within the framework of the so-called. Post-penitentiary aid is also intended to be paid to those who leave the penal establishments so that they do not return to this path to help them gain their profession. We, as citizens, are interested that these people should never enter into a conflict with the law again. Therefore, without now entering into the details of this report Because we all know him well, he was presented by the Supreme Chamber of Control. Let me say this: let the publication of this report be a very strong, clear and clear voice, let it lead to the improvement of the system of spending public money where today it does not demand that it be used to help the victims, so that it is not as we read in this report, that the distribution of public funds is unclear, non-transparent, and, looking at them, we can talk about corruption mechanisms. It is our responsibility to those who have been waiting for the help of the state and have not yet seen it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u117	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The information that you have submitted to President Banas, I believe, should prompt general conclusions, comments and conclusions. Firstly, we should thank the President for confirming the independence of the Supreme Audit Chamber, because only an independent control body serves the State and its citizens. There were doubts about it, but they're gone today. NIK is an independent institution, and the president has successfully defended himself against the temptations of vanquishing this independence, because it is clear that the camp of power wanted to lead either to actually re-activate that institution or to its apparent functioning. We have an independent NIK, as has been said here, as one of the two institutions performing constitutional functions in a subjective manner, the other is the Senate. Secondly, this is not an emergency, i.e. The results of the audit in the Justice Fund speak very much not only about this fund and about the harm done to victims of crimes that do not receive aid but about the whole country. We are dealing with a state of emergency, with a state where civilized rules have been abolished in relation to political power, there is no doubt about that. It is not just about developing targeted funds, but about the widespread use of public funds in a completely discretionary way, without rules. That's what President Banas was talking about, and the senators who asked questions about it. One area of fully discretionary public spending is the grant by the Polish Prime Minister. As we know, this task has been successfully carried out by the Senate as part of a transparent and objective procedure. Today we are dealing with the takeover of this by government agendas, and in the case of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers With totally discretionary expenditure. I ask the High House to address this issue. The point is that we should not give up the concern that Polish organisations, Polish initiatives, should be supported on a civilised basis. And the third line. What can you do now? Two independent constitutional institutions, the Senate and the Supreme Audit Chamber, have the power to restrain, reduce the scale of bad practices. This sometimes works, as was the case in the case of failure to allow an envelope election. But there is also a forward-looking plan, an action plan for the future. There are recommendations of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which are worth taking, concerning the removal of statutory sources of pathology, and recommendations concerning the area of aid to the victims. This should be our legislative initiative field. And more broadly: as long as NIK is an independent institution And I believe it's going to be a long time. After all, it makes sense for the two institutions to work together to rebuild a civilised state in the future, a state with sound public funds based on rules, on law, on the public interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u119	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I very much regret that it is full of truth, showing what Senator Kwiatkowski was talking about in his speech, perhaps in the first sentence, as the implementation of a specific family program on his... It is a pity, I regret that so few Senators of Law and Justice have listened to this account about facts, about what happened in an important ministry, about the implementation of expenditure related to the Justice Fund. [[They're listening...]] I know they're listening at the restaurant. [[They're listening, yeah.]] But I think here... sayings and proverbs are always the wisdom of the nation. I think the truth in the eyes of the circle, and hence such turnout. And now ad rem. As for the elements raised here by your President... [[There's no madness...]] I'm talking about when you were president. [[Well, we were.]] I would like to refer to a few passages. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we talked about the budget. As you remember, most of the money in the budget correction went to the funds. How the funds work, we saw it here today. I just want to say that according to statistics Poland is probably in second place in terms of the amount of money that is outside the budget, outside Parliament's control, in relation to GDP. As I recall, Malta is the only one ahead of us. Almost PLN 300 billion, 290 billion That's what Mr. President is talking about here. He's out of the budget. If we put together the amounts... The budget is about 500 billion. So it's easy to see what we're talking about here. So these elements of transparency, discretion, illegible rules and giving money to their own are always characteristic of the funds. Like a world long and wide, where there are funds that are not subject to direct parliamentary control, this always happens. What was the subject of the President's speech today confirms this rule. I also want to remind you, because maybe you do not remember that during these few years of government you have created a life, as the Prime Minister answered Mrs Leszczyna's question... In six years, you've established 35 different state institutions. 35 different institutions. So again, there's the creation of institutions that... what are they supposed to do? First of all, they are intended to create jobs, sources of income for people you think should be supported, financed and implemented by the family programme on your own. Among these 35 new institutions are, if I recall correctly, 17 special-purpose funds. So you create central management, with a huge number of central institutions, increasing the competence of central government at the expense of local governments and fantastically implementing the family programme on your own. I hope that voters, especially the Law and Justice, will see what is part of President NIK's speech today, because this concerns a large part of the expenditure related to funds. Finally, whenever there is an election campaign, we meet in marketplaces, in the city with people who are sympathetic, and can even be said to be law and justice followers, but we also meet sympathizers, citizens of the Civic Platform. During the last campaign, when I met a hot believer in law and justice in my town, we had a long discussion about who was stealing what and how he was stealing from the budget. And I'd like to tell you what was the point at the end. When I cited all kinds of facts, this sympathizer of Law and Justice said one thing, and today's speech by the President also has such marks: "You know what? They may be hugging that money, but they're sharing it with us. And that's the thing that's hard to fight. But I think that the more such things that were mentioned here today will come to light, the sooner Poles will see that the family programme has dark sides as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo. I listened attentively to the information of President Marian Banasio on the results of the inspection undertaken by the Supreme Audit Chamber. That's the nature of this institution. After all, we have in our ranks Senator Kwiatkowski, who is well aware of the pragmatism of the institution's operation, for a full term he was the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. And it is usually the case that these checks, especially when someone is long in power, relate to that authority. It's a natural mechanism. It is a standard of democracy that the Polish State has an institution of control, which has huge authority, has huge powers and has special protection of its head and employees, controllers of the Supreme Audit Chamber, precisely so that in an objective, substantive manner they assess whether the public funds and activities of state institutions are compatible with the applicable law in the Republic of Poland. President Marian Banaś tries to carry out these duties, as he claims, in a conscientious and substantive manner, and the public learns about the results of various checks, not only on the Justice Fund, but also on the envelope elections. We also hear that there is to be a check on the Ostrołęka power plant, there is also to be a check on the activities of the Border Guard or the operation of the Border Guard in connection with the emergency situation that has been introduced, and a whole range of other controls that may cause less social and political emotions, because they are partly routine checks, which the Chamber has in its work plan adopted every year, and on the other hand, they do not arouse such interest from opinion-makers. I would also like to point out that the House has a duty to publicly present the results of its controls, because that is the nature of democracy. On behalf of citizens, as it were on behalf of taxpayers, as it were on behalf of society, there is a control body that, in colloquially speaking, looks at the power of the hands. And such an institution is the Supreme Audit Chamber. It is difficult not to mention the wonderful predecessors of President Banasi. I'm thinking especially about sleeping here. Mr Lech Kaczyński, who created the law on the Supreme Chamber of Control, which in turn gave this institution real instruments so that it could carry out its statutory activities in a reliable, objective and substantive manner. Today perhaps there is a dispute between the governing camp or part of the governing camp and President Marian Banas. There are, of course, matters in the background that concern the private issues of President Banasi. I don't want to get into this right now, but it's common knowledge of his property statements and assets. There are proceedings in this case, this is a separate subject. However, the mere fact that such matters exist cannot automatically mean that it is not worth leaning on the results of the checks which the Supreme Audit Chamber carries out through its outstanding experts, such as controllers with many years of experience, content and excellently prepared for this work. They were judging different ruling teams. It's not like they're the controllers who've been working in the E.R. since yesterday or two years. The results of these audits cannot be assessed by the points I have just mentioned. I believe that we are currently dealing with a situation where, on the one hand, there are results of controls that arouse emotions and, on the other hand, there is the position of government administration. I'm not just talking about the Justice Fund, I'm talking about other things, because it's a universal mechanism. The legal bases are being questioned, the grounds on which these checks have been undertaken are alleged to have misunderstood certain procedures and the pragmatisms of the activities of the institutions or funds concerned, and it is finally pointed out that there is a higher need. Yeah, it's a pandemic, etcetera, etcetera. Let me put it this way: The Supreme Audit Office is literally examining the compatibility of what an institution does What is the way in which it works and spends its funds with the law in force in Poland, and is not from subjectively assessing whether there was a higher necessity or not. These are disputes which, at most, the court may decide in its proceedings. And from this point of view... That's why I asked the president what's next. Because there will be further checks and once again there will be an argument that someone misinterpreted the rule that it was not quite so that the decision was made earlier, but it was not noticed. That's what they're called. follow-up comments which each audited institution may submit to the minutes within a specified period, of course in the relevant position. And usually later, in a public debate, these arguments are repeated, presented. But I ask this question: since the Supreme Chamber of Control acts primarily in the interests of the citizen In the interest of the state, but also of every citizen, because it is his means, the means of his taxes, are used by state institutions or public entities. What's an ordinary citizen supposed to think? Is it to see through the prism that the current political camp criticizes the President because of the scope of these controls and the conclusions that result from them, or to agree to what the opposition says, which claims that the results of this study are shocking? What's he supposed to think? And that is indeed the problem, because there is no objective way to get the case closed in a short time in terms of assessing a given issue or irregularities. While the Supreme Audit Office has the opportunity to file a complaint, if it has audit requests, to report them to the prosecutor's office, and the prosecutor's office, let's assume that the proceedings are dismissed, without seeing the grounds for initiating proceedings, but the Supreme Audit Office... President Banas, asked by me, said that two such complaints, I understand, in the matter of envelope elections, were filed with the court and will be examined by the court. The Court of First Instance has a great deal of competence in this regard, as it may order the Chamber to determine the steps it must carry out, enumeratively indicating who should be questioned, what circumstances, what needs to be examined, etc., etc. So, theoretically, there's some kind of control over it. But what was interesting, what Mr Banas pointed out in his statement, and what is probably a new element in our debate on this subject, is that he suggested that the Chamber would expect certain amendments to the Law on the Supreme Audit Chamber, such changes, so that the NIK would have prosecutorial powers, but only with regard to the checks carried out. I mean. it would be so that the NIK prepares evidence in the case and may bring an indictment if it considers that such an instrument should be used. This is, High Izbo, a certain violation of the rules that usually apply to the primary control institutions in democratic countries. This area is left to the court, the prosecutor's office, and it is not suitable for an institution that controls, at the same time prosecutor's powers. This is definitely a discussion solution. I do not know what Parliament's position would be if we disconnected the current policy on how to give such powers to NIK, because it would be a very significant step in some direction. But I think that just raising this element in the debate by President Banas and his reflections or reflections as the President of the Supreme Auditorium so far show that it is probably such an idea, if it is processed, that will create great emotions and big discussion. I would wish, as a citizen, as a senator of the Republic of Poland, that the Supreme Chamber of Control should carry out its checks substantively, objectively, in the interest of the Polish State, in the interest of the Polish citizen and that its conclusions, if they are confirmed, would mean bringing to account those persons who committed the offence in question, if they had committed it to be ruled by an independent court. Why? Because people's trust in public institutions is being hit on differently, because they say, "They're talking about themselves, they're making proposals, they're scaring the prosecutor, they're scaring the court, they're making some judgments, and basically nothing changes." If that were the result, it would be fatal for the Polish state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u123	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Breja.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u124	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Senate! We are dealing with a crisis in the functioning of the institutions. Regardless of political perceptions, we all agree that the state should act in a well organized and efficient manner. What are the effects of Zbigniew Ziobra's actions for 6 years in the Ministry of Justice? Let us take this criterion the most necessary to the citizen. A citizen goes to justice, expects really quick handling, quick handling of his case, whether it's a civil, family, criminal case, or a victim of a crime. And the time limits in the courts have increased considerably. Courts wait much longer, cases last for years, and court fees are getting higher. So it's longer and more expensive in court. As far as spending money from the Justice Fund is concerned, it turns out that we are dealing with the greatest mismanagement in terms of the functioning of the Ministry of Justice in the last 31 years of free Poland. That's how the Ministry of Justice happened. By extending the cases, blocking the functioning of the courts and, secondly, because of this enormous scale of abuse indicated by President NIK Unfortunately, you can say the ministry of injustice. Because if a third of the Justice Fund goes to the victims of crime, what happens to the rest of them? Transferring to the promotion of politicians, advertising expenses... What a crime victim has in mind is that in the press connected with a certain political environment there will be an advertising of some policy. Or that in the election campaign one of the vice ministers will go into the field and distribute these funds according to the line of his election campaign? What will a particular victim gain by building the exorcist's center on a plot whose investment is not in line with the local spatial planning plan, and the exorcist's experience is that a few years ago, with the help of a salceson, he drove the spirit out of a vegetarian? [[Joy in the Chamber]] What will the victim of the crime have through this center, I'm talking about the Profeto Foundation? What assistance will the victim of the crime get from the fact that there will be 5 recording studios in this investment? Well, I don't know, he's gonna go there and record... The victim of the crime needs to record songs, musical songs, that there will be any directors, server rooms or open space offices? What concrete help for a victim seeking help results from such expenses? Quarter of a million zlotys on the caterer. Quarter of a million zlotys to rent a hall, banquets. What did the victim of the crime get from this catering service, what benefit did he have for himself? Finally, millions of zlotys to advertise the minister of Ziobra and the people of the Ministry of Justice. Millions, tens of millions. Or the earnings of the presidents of the foundation, associations, quite well appointed, with little experience, as we heard today from the president of Banasia, to PLN 20,000 per month. This is wicked. What kind of help does the victim get from the Foundation of Lex Veritatis and get 6 million zlotys from this fund through some kind of spot? Well, what do these spots mean for people in need of psychological assistance, support, legal assistance, what does it mean to burn money out for people? I just yesterday found out about the case, also reported earlier to my senator's office, dropped out at the D.A.'s office. The father of two kids fights the D.A.'s office... Two of his children died as a result of a traffic accident. Pictures of the accident... Someone broke into the phone. The photos were sold to his parents. Pictures of these kids, massacred corpses. The D.A. wanted to drop the case first. The court ordered the case to be handled. And now there's a second bailout from the D.A.'s office, even though potential perpetrators are settled. The evidence is secure. This man didn't get any psychological help. The state didn't help him in any way. And now, after a few years, 'Cause that's how long it takes, and court and prosecutorial. He finds out there's no case. The state is ineffective. Millions went somewhere else. Finally, there is also a question, of course, about the Pegasus system. Why can't you get information, the NIK controllers can't extract information from the CBA and from the Ministry of Justice, which law and on what legal basis Well, it's illegal, without a legal basis, to buy a spy program to monitor journalists, opposition politicians, illegal activities? Without a legal basis and illegally bought illegal software, so that it would not be in accordance with operational control to suck in e.g. Texts from many years ago. That's probably the case. I can't rule out that we're about to find out a little bit more about this. And then there's the basic question. How did we get to the stage... We signaled, of course, as a democratic opposition, and in the Senate, in previous terms, but also in the Seym, the dangers arising from the merger of offices. How will technically, in an objective, effective, conscientious, rational manner, the Attorney General examine irregularities in the operation of the Minister? So D.A. Ziobro's gonna be investigating Minister Ziobra for bringing money out of the Ziobra party? Well, that's completely absurd and impossible to do. Ladies and gentlemen, summarizing: The Ministry of Justice has become the Ministry of Injustice. People need help in Poland, crime victims need help, and money, instead of help, in 2/3 went to burn into various bizarre initiatives, while in courts cases take much longer and, so to speak, much more expensive, and citizens suffer from it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u125	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Raphael the locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Senate! A major event in the Senate is coming to an end. A representative of the constitutional control body before the constitutional legislative body submitted a report on the audit carried out at an important office. And I think to some extent you'll agree with me when I try to sum things up. The first thing to lean on here is the issue of the impartiality of this report and this control. And I have to admit that I was disturbed by the fact that in the speech of the President, read and thus not spoken, because in the said one we accept certain emotional elements, some of the less carefully guarded expressions, there are such statements as: "It is particularly outrageous, wakes up my personal opposition" or "Pan Romanowski" is the last person who should. I think this is not a formula that we expect in official speeches, because it is rather a publicist formula, which is probably of such a lower rank. In fact, in response to some of the comments, you have confirmed to some extent my intuition, but the conclusion is sad: that perhaps this publicist enthusiasm and emotional commitment have influenced the substantive inquisitiveness in this report. The second point, I think, worth mentioning here, is the alleged independence of the office which has appeared in connection with this event today. It is worth noting that today's speech is a consequence of the compromise of the opposition, which failed in the twin appearance in the Sejm, at least in terms of attendance. I will no longer comment on commonly known media facts. In this respect, I think that the efforts to make this bad impression before the public to improve have not proved effective today. But an element of the independence of this office is happening to some extent at the moment, because the President has left the room and, I think, in this way he has shown that he is independent of the Senate. This may be a good clue not only to the way the Senate treats it, but perhaps to the great independence of this office. Finally, I would like to put a rhetorical question, because I think that you have dealt instrumentally with the Supreme Chamber of Control, planning a debate on this item. If the Supreme Audit Chamber carries out control in local governments, e.g. Warsaw or Wałbrzych, will we demand a detailed report from the President at the next Senate meeting? I'll leave you to that question. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u127	Thank you, Senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj wants to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Szaniawski's two theatres are a bit of a whiff of what I just heard here. Mr. Senator, I understand that, as you said, you didn't like the form. Well, actually, maybe the form didn't suit you, but I encourage you... You're a human being. We've talked about a lot of things, and I like to discuss it with you. Don't you understand that the essence of this meeting was content? [[Voice from the room: Stealing.]] It was about stealing and stealing from the Republic of Poland. Maybe it wasn't said... Excuse me, Mr... Maybe it wasn't very elegant, maybe if you actually said it, and you didn't read it, it would be a better form. But was it the essence of today's meeting? Okay, for you, yes. I'm leaving it unanswered. Institutional independence. I know that this is an independent Constitutional Tribunal. This is an independent institution. But NIK? How independent is he? It is known that NIK and Mr Banas are subsidiaries. Here you can figure out why. Mr. President NIK, for whatever reason, presents the report of the people who work at NIK. Do you understand that? It presents not its idea for Poland, how to annoy you, but facts, although it may not be in the form that you dreamed of. Okay, you have the right. But do you understand what happened here today? Discrediting the opposition. You know what? Once again, the opposition will compromise itself. I hope it will be done a few times already. I want to tell you that there was more than just an opposition in the meeting you had in mind. That's where the first violin was played by the people from the PiS. [[Voice from the room: Who?]] Who? Mr. Sasin, Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński, and there were a few others. I know you and I haven't been invited, which is why we have a bit of a grudge. So talk a little bit quieter about this embarrassment. Please note what the design is like the conduct of the rulers today. They caught them and I don't want to use sharp words on something obscene, and they say, "What's the matter with you?" It's not my hand, you've also compromised yourselves there. Senator, at least a little decency. Listen to the report, read the report. You can complain about content, form, etc., but at least think about it for a second. Is it worth it? Or is there some truth to that? Maybe Minister Ziobro isn't so crystal. Maybe he's pushing money on this salceson or other stuff? Maybe it's worth it. Well, think about it. Do not be so uncritical as Senators of the Republic of Poland, Senators of Law and Justice. Don't be people who just put themselves on the side of religion and believe that everything is okay. Maybe sometimes it's worth thinking about? Finally, I'm going to talk about what's going on with the exit itself. I hear Mr. Chairman's got until, like, 11:00 or something. I don't want to justify him. Of course, Mr. Senator, I agree, it would be better if the room were full now when we're talking about such an important matter. 190 or some million zlotys, according to NIK, were embezzled and 90 million were allocated for promotion. Well, fantastic! And those other things that were mentioned here by the senators present, but above all by your President, above all by your President NIK. Don't pick on important things, but side things. Today's main topic is this case... Stand here and say it's not true, it's never happened! And then it's a discussion. Or: I have arguments, I have a statement from the minister, someone else there, and absolutely it's not true, etc., etc. Invite Minister Ziobra here. We'll ask him the same thing. Let him tell us if it's true that he spends so much on it, so much on sausage, so much on salceson, and so much on promoting his own. He's gonna say no. And that's a discussion. I want to assure you that if one of the senators says that Minister Ziobro spoke in some way... You know how you used... [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, no, not in that form, maybe not that form, but as for the content, I might have thought about it. I just want to assure you that I wouldn't pay any attention to that. We will pay attention to what Mr Ziobro will respond to what has been the subject of the report and our discussion today. And that kind of reflection, Senator, with respect for you, please. I'm asking you to think about it. I appeal to all the Senators of Law and Justice What was the subject of today's speech. It is sometimes worth having doubts about your beliefs and knowledge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u129	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! Unfortunately, you cannot remain silent because you mentioned my hometown, Wałbrzych. First of all, I am upset because I highly respect your senator, but such insinuations concerning the possible results of the control of the Wałbrzych self-government and questioning them... I ask that this never rains again from this platform, never happens in this House. [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] I just want to remind you that Walbrzych has recently been hit by everything that's going on around the members and even the ministers of Law and Justice. I will refer here to the matter of actually political corruption which took place in the economic zone in which the members of Law and Justice, who were heads of the PiS structures in Wałbrzych, distributed money in the manner we heard about the Justice Fund in Minister Banas's information, in a discretionary manner. We heard from the recordings that the one-man CEO, sometimes it was two people, giving away money, saying: These are ours, so they will get, these are not ours, we put them down at the end of the queue or they will not receive any money at all. It was all on tapes that were revealed, it showed how the Law and Justice work, how the members of the Law and Justice work in Wałbrzych. Here's another thing. I will remind you of the e-mails of the Minister, who is the leader of Law and Justice in my family district, who are being revealed every now and then. It turns out that such information is being disclosed: poor municipalities, abandoned communities, poor residents. That's what the Minister uses in his e-mails. We're waiting for another one. We'll see what it says, what these other e-mails will reveal. Another situation relates to my last visit to the Sejm of the Lower Silesian Voivodeship. Let me just remind you that there is law and justice with partyless self-government. It turns out that huge work, huge effort of the Wałbrzych agglomeration, members focused around... generally self-governments who prepared the entire schedule and distribution of funds within the framework of fair transformation, the Green Deal... It turns out that the Sejmik of the Dolnośląskie Voivodeship, I will remind you, PiS-owski, did not make any efforts to continue this work, did not take another step, even though it has ready-made by local governmentmen from our region. And let me remind you that President Wałbrzych is the brains of the entire group who is preparing these plans. It turns out that the Śląskie voivodship is a few steps ahead of us, and the seymik of the voivodship of Dolnośląskie, I will remind you, once he was a leader among the seymists of the voivodship, once it was asked how to have EU funds, because we were the best in this. And at the moment it turns out that we can't deal with simple things, that we're behind just because the Sejm of Lower Silesian Voivodeship is managed by incompetent people from Law and Justice. I'm sorry for my emotions, but I'm just terribly sorry that those words came out of that speaker. And I ask you to stop using such words about my hometown of Wałbrzych in subsequent speeches. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u131	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed has submitted his speech to the minutes. The discussion is closed. That concludes the point. And adjourn until 12:45. Five minutes after the adjournment, which is in five minutes, the Seniors Convention will be held. And messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I kindly inform you that the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, on the first reading of the draft resolution on the place of Poland in the European Union, will take place on 8 October 2021 in room 217. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u133	Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 47 to 13 minutes 17]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u134	Please take your seats and quiet down, as I understand it, interesting dialogues. I'm reopening the session. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the place of Poland in the European Union and consider it as the item on the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Mr. Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u135	Mr. Marshal, I am against this, and the explanation will certainly be discussed later in the debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u136	I admit that the senator presented his justification at the Seniors Convention. We are therefore voting on the proposal to supplement the agenda. Please activate the machines. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 1]] So we begin to consider item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the motion for a resolution on the place of Poland in the European Union. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 521 and the report is published in print No 521 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Bogdan Klich, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In order to start the report on the formal side, I would like to say that it has indeed been prepared... The shape of the proposed resolution, which we will work on in the procedure of adopting the resolution, is an ad hoc response to what happened yesterday in Poland. It's not a secret. In this Chamber, I think we all know that the position of the Court of Justice of Ms Julia Przyłębska has been presented, which has upset a large part of the public opinion in Poland. This position really undermines not only part of European law... After all, the Lisbon Treaty of 2008 is a treaty accepted and introduced into the legal order of the Republic of Poland in accordance with the Constitution. So many citizens, many Poles and many Poles, have the right to be concerned that this is something that was already in the acquis of the European Union and is in the system of the law of the Republic of Poland, after so many years, with regard to certain provisions, being undermined. Furthermore, this draft resolution is an expression of our belief that the words must be restored to their proper meaning, that the constitution should be respected by everyone, not treated selectively. The camp of authority refers to it when it is in his hand, and when it is not in his hand, he rejects it. In this House, for the last six years, we have witnessed a regular violation of the Constitution. I would stress this: a regular and conscious violation of the constitution by a majority belonging to the governing camp, from the first attempt on the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal, through an attempt on the independence of the prosecutor's office, an attempt on the independence of the services It was actually the takeover of the services and the police, up to the assassination of the independence of the National Judicial Council and the Supreme Court and the famous shameful muzzle law, which is ultimately intended to limit the freedom of Polish judges. Of course, I am talking about the freedom of judgment, of course I am talking about the independence of case law, of course I am talking about the independence of the attitudes of Polish judges. Yeah, that's what you're talking about. You want the Polish judge to be a dependent judge. You mean that the Polish judge should passively, but faithfully follow orders, dispositions from the center of political power. You want no one to be able to control everything about which, among other things, is. Mr. Marian Banas spoke in this room today, presenting the results of the Justice Fund's study. So you want no one to be able to control the activities of those who are stealing Poland, who are introducing mechanisms of political corruption into Poland, who are finally acting against the applicable law. That's what you're talking about. You're talking about impunity. That is also the point of the Court of Przyłębska, because at the time when the Court of Justice of the European Union once again And this must be remembered: he was in favour of the standards of the Polish Constitution, because the standards of the Polish Constitution are in line with the standards of European law, as we know after the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal... after the adoption of the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty of 2008. This ruling is therefore intended to ultimately close the mouth to the Polish judges to say, you do not have the right to invoke the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union when it comes to the interests of the citizen, when it comes to an independent and objective judgment. That's the essence of what happened yesterday. Therefore, Mr Marshal, we decided as a group of senators belonging to the majority of the democratic group to submit and then to adopt in committees with minor amendments the motion for a resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, which is the answer to yesterday's attempt to undermine the compatibility of the Polish Constitution with European law and to give the ruling authorities the opportunity to question certain judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. And that's why this draft resolution is talking about it. I'll read it to you. The Senate of the Republic of Poland considers the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal to be incompatible with the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and contrary to the requirements of the Polish state. The Senate is concerned that this ruling, issued by the Court controlled by the governing party, constitutes a legal introduction to the exit of Poland from the European Union. The Senate believes that the Constitution of the Republic and European Union law do not conflict On the contrary, referring to the same values: freedom, individual dignity, social solidarity and the rule of law, they complement each other. As long as the Republic of Poland, by the will of the Nation expressed in a referendum, is a member of the European Union, European law should be respected in our country. Failure to recognise judgments of the Court of Justice of the EU means the opening of the way for Poland to leave the Union. Such a step, announced by some representatives of the governing camp, the Senate considers it clearly contrary to the Polish state. The current crisis in relations with the European Union is caused only by attempts by politicians of governing groups, including in particular the management of the Ministry of Justice, the submission of independent judges and independent courts, including the Supreme Court. Attempts to review political power are contrary to both the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Such a policy has already shaken the sense of economic and social security of Poles and delayed the transfer of billions from the EU Reconstruction Fund to Poland. Consequently, this could lead to a complete suspension of the payment of large amounts of money from the European Union budget, including subsidies to farmers and resources to local authorities. The Senate stresses that membership of the European Union increases the prosperity and security of Poland, and it is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Poland to exercise the rights and freedoms enshrined in the European Treaties. These rights must be defended together. The Senate of the Republic of Poland declares that it will uphold the national interest, which is the further presence of Poland in the European Union. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I would like to add to what has been read that by a majority of the joint committees, the foreign affairs committee, the legislative committee and the rule of law and human rights committee have voted in favour of the resolution. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u138	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and at the same time an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Bogdan Klich to represent them. I'm asking Senator Severinski to ask you a question. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, I volunteered for discussion.]] Okay, write down the marshal. Senator Gogacz, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u139	I would like to ask the senator, the representative of the motion for a resolution, what is the legal basis for saying in the first paragraph in the first sentence that the Senate of the Republic of Poland accepts the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal For incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Please state the legal basis for the statement in the first paragraph of the resolution that the Senate does not recognise the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u140	There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u141	I must say, Mr Senator, that we all know that the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland's roots is recognition of the independence of judges and the independence of courts. As a result, from the first ruling given in November 2019, when the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that there was a set of values for which it was necessary to assess the Muzzle Act at that time... On this basis, in December 2019 the Supreme Court stated that the National Judicial Council is not a body independent of the executive authority and the legislative authority and that the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court is not a court within the meaning of European law. From this point on, we are dealing with the rulings of the Court of Justice, which considers that the solutions which have been adopted by the States are not compatible with European law. And since European law, as decided by the Constitutional Court after the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, is in line with our constitution, the questioning of certain provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon by the Court of Justice of Ms Julia Przyłębska must be regarded as contrary to the existing judicial line of the Constitutional Tribunal and therefore contrary to what has been declared compatible with the Polish Constitution. And from this we assume that this ruling is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u142	Thank you very much. No further questions. [[I'm still...]] Again? There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u143	I would like to ask you what legislation states that the Senate has the right to the assessment you have made.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u144	Well, excuse me, Mr. Senator, but since the Senate is adopting resolutions on matters as exotic as the anniversary, I no longer remember the death or birth of Kazimierz the Great, it has not only a right, but also an obligation to respond to what is most important here and now and what will be important in the future for all Poles and Poles. The Senate is not about focusing on the distant past, but about dealing with what is most important for Poles. It's our duty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u145	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. We'll proceed with the discussion. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Marshal Mark Knocks.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The highest law of the Republic of Poland is the Constitution. We are all bound to be faithful to the Constitution, to obey the Constitution, we pledge to the Constitution. That is why yesterday's ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal is fundamental to highlighting the sovereignty of the Polish state, to ordering the relationship between European law and the Constitution, between tribunals and European courts and the Constitutional Tribunal. Yesterday's ruling was expected and is absolutely fundamental. It is in line with the long-standing case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal since 2005. Similar to the essence of the ruling, Professor Safjan was led. Similar decisions took place in other Member States In Germany, France, Italy, Spain, the Czech Republic and many others. They have never caused such inner emotions, such hysterical and deeply lying reactions of the opposition. And I don't think it's ever happened, in any Member State, that in such a scandalous way as in this resolution, the Chamber of the National Parliament should react. In this case the Senate of the Republic of Poland. You are once again discrediting the Senate of the Republic of Poland. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Well, I can't.]] You've withdrawn... You've withdrawn... [[I can't...]] ...at the committee meeting... [[Calm down, please! Calm down, please!]] I know, Mr. Senator Fedorovich, that you can't... [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[I can't listen to you.]] Then leave. [[Mr. Marshal, make your speech and don't argue with the O.R.]] Well, then... [[I'm just asking you to calm down.]] Then control this room. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Because in a moment, the opposition will simply no longer have a voice. [[You're welcome. Speak.]] You've withdrawn... You retreated at the committee meeting... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...again, with an outrageous definition of the so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal. Senator Klich spoke premeditatedly during his speech about the Julia Przyłębska Court. What right do you have to discredit this constitutional authority? An independent and independent... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Whose judgments are final. If you continue to do so, it will be perfectly legitimate to talk about the so-called. The Senate and the so-called. Marshal of the Senate. Is that what you really want? [[Talking in the O.R.]] You are bringing constitutional order in Poland to deep chaos, to increasing anarchy. You are provoking, in particular, the representatives of the judiciary, to embezzle their vows to the Constitution, to choose at their own discretion, which judges respect, which they recognize, which they do not, which judgments recognize, which they do not. In a moment, the Polish state will fly away through such activities. [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's just a scandal. This is an anti-state activity for which you will one day be responsible. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're flipping... [[Calm down, please! Calm down, please!]] You're turning your heads around. You are turning the Polish state by 180 degrees. You're just turning constitutional order upside down. I know this resolution is needed by your chief Donald Tusk on Sunday. He's gonna have a great forpost to heat up his emotions. So not only the street, not only abroad, but also the majority of the Senate. I'm just outraged by this action. In this resolution, there is not a word of truth about the actual and legal context of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. This ruling is necessary in the current situation, as the Court of Justice of the European Union goes beyond its powers every day. It is not enough that it takes an impossible decision, such as in the case of Turów, by introducing a single person a safeguard measure, which can lead to an energy collapse of the Polish state. So? We're supposed to agree to this? We're supposed to be looking at all this... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...for an altar, for a god? [[Well done!]] And we're supposed to take all this uncritically? We are a sovereign nation, a sovereign and equal nation, who is a member of the European Union and has given up part of his sovereignty by signing accession treaties. Nowhere in these treaties was it said that the Court of Justice of the European Union should rule us in all areas. And yet, in this direction, the institutional development of the European Union is aimed at: the Commission takes over the powers of the governments of the Member States, and through the activism of the judges of the tribunals it is trying to create a new category of legal sources in the European Union, namely the case law of European tribunals. There isn't, there are no such sources of law. That's not what we agreed to. This is not what other Member States agreed to, and their constitutional tribunals clearly stated it. We have the right to such a decision, it is necessary, it is necessary and I hope that it will strengthen the sovereignty of the Polish state. The sovereignty of the Polish state, which somehow incredibly torments and irritates you. You guys would just give yourself up in the arms of Brussels. You don't have any ambition at all to stand up to sovereignty. We have, we want to be a member of the first category in the European Union. We're gonna... [[Joy in the Chamber]] We have agreed to a Europe of free, sovereign nations, and we will not depart from this agreement. We will do everything to make Poland a sovereign, free state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u147	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear fellow Senators and Senators! Let's work on the lyrics a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen, this place is the seat of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. If you use the name "Senat" in official texts, which has often been brought to our attention by our legislature, then you are simply making a criminal mistake. I don't know what that means. Out of ignorance, out of haste or out of sloppyness. That's not how you write draft official resolutions. There's nothing to brag about at the rally on Saturday. This is the first case. Line two. You often rely on the constitution. This document, for those who have not read, is called the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Not the Constitution, not the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, but the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Of course. Read it. Question three. I will now say that he went evenly after this text and explained to you where you have made the mistakes that arise, I presume, simply from ignorance or from sloppyness. Court... Perhaps otherwise: The Senate of the Republic of Poland finds it incompatible with the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland... etc. Similarly, the Senate declares that the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the law of the European Union do not conflict, etc. We do not have such competence, such competence has an authority, which is called the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Authority, he's listed in the Constitution. We're crossing the Senate's lyrics with these lyrics. Of course, such opinions can be expressed during discussions, to journalists, on some discussion panels, but not in the official text. It's not enough that you're trying to overturn the pattern, the structure of the state's organs, but unfortunately... I don't know what it's coming from, maybe it's some kind of buffoon, maybe some lack of competence that's bothering you, but it's enough to carry out in those that the Senate has. And yet some of your representatives... In the original text, there was a phrase called "Two." The Constitutional Tribunal. That's what you cut out, but your representative, who wrote this resolution here, used this concept. Who are you insulting? You're insulting yourselves! The Court of Julia Przyłębska... What about the Grodski Senate? Would you be happy if our House were to be defined as such? Because I don't. I'd be protesting then. You're insulting yourselves by using these concepts. Further question: The controlled Tribunal... This is still the first paragraph, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if I can fit in 10 minutes. The Tribunal controlled by the ruling party... Prove it to me. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Do you have any way of proving it? 'Cause there's one thing here, ladies and gentlemen. If such a question is raised or such a claim is made, it means that you assume that the Constitutional Tribunal, whether or not chosen, may be dependent on the party. That means how you guys ruled... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and you were pointing out candidates, then he could be dependent on the party too. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You are insulting not only the Court in its present composition, but all in the past and all in the future. That's what it looks like. That's an assumption, if that's even supposed to be logical. [[No, there's no comparison. There's no comparison.]] [[Voice from the hall: Maile Dworczyka just read!]] Scream again. It's very cool, really. [[Mr. Senator...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] The next question is not to recognise the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. We're talking about yesterday's sentence. I'll read it. You just have to start reading it. The assessment of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of selected provisions of the Treaty on European Union. That was the subject of this trial. In short, because it actually took 10 minutes to quote the thesis itself. What does that mean? There was no question of the tribunal's verdicts. Well, this path may be taken by you someday, because you suggest it was clearly referred to some of the selected provisions of the Treaty on European Union. The treaty is an international agreement. It is possible to examine the compatibility of the international agreement with the Constitution. Incidentally, it's also characteristic, because it's the subconscious that throws away I heard here how it fell from the senator's mouth, who referred to your position that it was examined the compatibility of the Polish Constitution with European law. Well, it's interesting what's being studied here, what's being compared to what. You don't believe me? Listen to me. There will also be a transcript from this meeting. The next question is the opening of the way for Poland to leave the Union. We're already in the second paragraph here. Ladies and gentlemen, leaving the Union through Poland must be, if at all... This must be decided by the nation, and not by the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Voice from the room: Please read the law.]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] What does that mean? That you're already here. You want it to be that way. That's not what the left hand does, that's what the left hand does. - Right. - Right. Or is it the subconscious throwing away again? The question is, why are you saying this? On what grounds? Because there's enough empty-headedness here. [[Voice from the room: We're gone...]] Next case. This is also interesting: contrary to the same values, it is about values which are to be the same, common in the European Union and in Poland. Freedom, individual dignity, social solidarity and the rule of law. We're not giving up on these values. [[Voice from the room: No?]] These values are in our constitution, which we observe, which is a model for us to study other acts of conformity, but within, in the text of the constitution, and in the preamble... And the preamble is for the interpretation of the text of the main constitution. I'll read you the first adjectives and nouns. 'Cause you have to read it, too, not just the cover, and it's wrong, as I've shown. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] The future of our Homeland, the first noun. Having regained the ability of sovereign and democratic... sovereignty, democracy, homeland. We, the Polish Nation. You want me to keep reading? These are the values on which our constitution is based. And here's the best part. Half are lawyers, the other half are those who think they're lawyers, and I'm talking about the other side. Please read in the third paragraph: independent judges and independent courts, such wording. We'll read it, Art. 173: Judgments and Courts are separate and independent from other authorities. The court is independent. Art. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1: The judges in the exercise of their office shall be free and shall be subject only to the Constitution and to the laws. Independence is the quality of a judge. You're making school, college mistakes. Ladies and gentlemen, it is possible to lower the veil of silence on the text of this resolution, but the question remains: why did you give it at all? Why did you put it on the table in such a sudden, strange mode? This is a manifestation of your powerlessness, anger, powerlessness, part of your shoes. I'm afraid so, sir. Someone told you to do your job and do it more or less efficiently. Those who listen to us and watch us will be able to judge whether they are more or less successful. All you have to do is compare the texts, compare them to the constitution you're referring to. And if you keep playing like this, what will that do? Well, first of all, you are questioning the independence of other authorities and trying them, unfortunately, already as Chamber, not as single members of this House, just to speak in a simple way. This is not a good way, because if you start a fight like this, you have to know that you are exposed to the same punches. And the dignity of the High House, among others. Substantive speeches, about the text, not about the clouds, that is something that we should all care about here. And most importantly, you are including the High House in the current political struggle. The Senate shouldn't be used for this. It has a different character, other tasks and really is something to work on in the Senate. I appeal to you because I also agree to the motion to reject this text at first reading... He's just gonna ridicule us in the future. [[Senator, 11 minutes. Please...]] Mr. Marshal, as always criminally, I'll just finish this sentence. [[Thank you very much.]] He's gonna embarrass us. No deeper political effect, unfortunately... maybe not, but luckily it will not, but unfortunately it will lead to even greater divisions. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u149	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter.]] You're welcome, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! [[Voice from the room: Is the card?]] I've got a card, I've got everything. It's working now. Okay. Mr. Marshal, this is a dispute that has been going on here for many years, between those who believe that the rule of law in Poland is being broken and brutally and those who do not think so. Therefore, my proposal is: if anyone else wants to sign up at the moment, he should sign up, but to close the list of speakers in a moment. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Thank you.]] [[Voices from the room: There is a formal conclusion.]] [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u151	There's a formal conclusion. [[Voices from the O.R.: It needs to be voted out.]] I'm sorry, of course, but we'll vote when there's an objection. [[Exactly.]] Is there an objection? [[There's an objection.]] There's an objection. Senator Mammytov objects, therefore... [[But maybe Senator Mammoths will sign up.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] So... [[Voices from the room: You filed a formal motion, so we are voting.]] [[Voices from the room: But remote...]] Good. Well, then I'm gonna announce a break so the remotes can vote, too. [[Voices from the room: Yes, sir.]] I'm calling a five-minute break. We are voting on this formal proposal at 2:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 55 to 14 minutes 02]] Please take your seats. We proceed with the vote on Senator Borowski's motion to close the list of speakers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 45 against, 45 against. [[Voting No 2]] The motion didn't go through. We continue the discussion. Who's next? Professor, Senator Michael Sewerinski. Please take the floor... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down! There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u152	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to make some polemic comments on the wording of this motion for a resolution. Maybe I'll partially repeat myself, but... briefly. In the beginning, it is said that the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which we comment on, is not in line with the basic principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I'm the one asking the authors of this phrase or the article. The 8th Constitution is a rule or not. I'll answer that. It's my opinion, and it's not just me, it's the principle. Because of the content and location of the Constitution, at the very beginning of the Constitution. This content is that the Constitution is the highest law in Poland. Consequently, one or another had no other option but to recognise the validity of the Article. 8 and the highest nature of constitutional law. Incidentally, notice how the media is wrong about what's really going on. Because this isn't about the superiority of the constitution... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, we don't hear your professor at all, that's the fuss. If anyone wants to talk, leave...]] [[Mr. Senator, please calm down. You too.]] Thank you. So, there was no other way out of this. There had to have been such a judgment as it had taken. And that's the first case, and maybe the last. The Court simply had no alternative, as it is commonly said. Second note. It is said: there is no contradiction between the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the law of the European Union. So there's no contradiction at all? And yet two other Courts, one under the authority of Prof. Safjan, the other under the power of Prof. Rzepliński, were considering this problem of investigating contradictions or compatibility of the Constitution with European law. And the fact that yesterday the third time the Court had to speak means that this problem is still open. The fact that some countries, 5 or 6 other members of the European Union have examined the same problem means that this is a problem that is very common in the European Union's legal system. Yes, we are based on the same values: freedom, human dignity, equality, justice. It's all written down and in our constitution, you can get it out of it, and in the treaty files. They are a kind of constitution, and it's written there too. So what's the problem? On the fact that the Luxembourg tribunal interprets it differently, so that he is comfortable. These are so general terms that even a man who is honest about these interpretations can come to other conclusions in Poland and other conclusions in Luxembourg. I tell my students, because I am partly teaching European social law, that interpretation is the most important thing, that this extension interpretation gives the tribunal rights that he does not have. It goes on to talk about giving independent courts control of political power. You mean what? There can't be any political control over judges and courts? Ladies and gentlemen, the law on the system of common courts is a law, that is, an act derived from politicians, a political body. So the political body has something to say about the judicial system? I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, This is also an example of this because politicians have established laws for the Supreme Court. I said that once, two years ago, when I had the opportunity to do it again, you probably don't remember it. I believe that it is important for judges to be empowered, how they emerge, how they are called, but much more important for the proper judiciary is that these judges are not bound, because they judge in accordance with law and conscience, and that they are irresistible. This is the essence of the thing: they are not bound by case law and are not bound by it in such a way that no one of the public can submit them. This is a few comments that make it necessary to rewrite this text so that I can sign it. Although under some of the views expressed here, I could sign off on the fact that I think so too, even though Parliament has the right to speak on these matters. I do not share this view that it is not reserved for us that it is for someone else. Any Member and any Senator may say in his speech that a provision seems to be inconsistent with the Constitution. Only that he thinks and that his word will not matter until the Court has spoken. I could keep going, but I'm not gonna do it. I believe that the resolution simply misses the goal. These arguments, which are here, cannot be justified in such a way that it can be voted for. I'll vote against it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u153	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it's strictly legal. Yes, of course, there have been judgments in Europe concerning the relationship between the constitutions of the Member States and the European Treaties, particularly in the procedure prior to their ratification. And they had, as Professor Sewerinski knows well, a very different character. They often led, as in the case of Germany and France, to a change of constitution before ratification. European chapters of the Constitution of the V French Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany have been largely produced in this procedure. It was therefore considered necessary to amend the constitution in order to ratify the Treaty. There were also important polemic decisions between e.g. a tribunal in Karlsruhe and a tribunal in Luxembourg. A year ago, the Court of the Federal Republic of Germany contested the scheme for the purchase of bonds for the repayment of the Greek debt. But none of these cases concerned the independence and independence of the judiciary. Constitutional courts in Europe have never issued judgments to protect the destruction of an independent judiciary in their own country. This case is not about defending a sovereign legal order, it is not about the primacy of the Constitution. It is a cover of actions whose aim is full political rule over the judiciary, incompatible with the Polish constitution and with the Polish constitutional tradition. Because the model in which we have the U.S. Attorney General The Minister of Justice, the model in which the judicial authorities were wound up, was subordinated to the National Court of Justice and the highest judicial authority, which is the Supreme Court in Poland, is nowhere in Europe. Such a scale of political power, or more specifically, one of its centres over the judiciary, is nowhere in Europe. And that is contrary to the Polish constitution. Even if we were not members of the European Union or the European Union had an indifferent attitude to this matter, we would be obliged to say: this is contrary to the Polish constitution. Because in the Polish Constitution there are stronger guarantees of judicial independence, stronger guarantees of judicial independence, independence of the judiciary than in the European Treaties. The idea and here should be told the truth It was very simple: we exclude the independent Constitutional Tribunal so that we can abolish these rules. And it is difficult for us, as the Senate directly applying the Constitution, to remain silent on this matter. There is also a close relationship between judicial independence, which is the quality of the judge, each of the judges individually, and the independence of the judiciary. Legal doctrine says: if there is no independence of the judiciary The core of the independence of the judiciary is the subjective participation, not dominance, but the subjective participation of the judicial community in co-managing the justice system. If there is no independence of the judiciary, the guarantees of independence are greatly reduced. So we have no way of acting other than how we behave, in a situation where the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal has been excluded. And I don't think anyone can question that. Because these are also testimonies of people who took action in the first phase of the rule of law and justice, after 2015, and then turned out... to be critics and testimonies. I am no longer talking about this correspondence, which indicates that the President of the current Constitutional Tribunal is simply a participant in the policy of the current power camp. Well, that's a violation of the institution's elementary standard of independence. If there was a real dispute in this case... Because the constitutional courts and the Member States are arguing with Brussels about important matters, important matters. This was the dispute concerning the redemption of bonds, the sale of bonds under the payment of the Greek debt. But this is not a dispute relevant to the country. This is the cover of a destructive reform. This is not a positive case from a national interest point of view. And I have the impression that my colleagues in Law and Justice do not know exactly where Jarosław Kaczyński will lead them. Will he seek to strengthen this dispute or to withdraw, as was the case with various resolutions on LGBT-free zones? What's the road? Because if it were a national matter, it would be known where this road is, where the border of compromise is. But it is not known where it is, because it is only in the consciousness of one politician, who in a moment can dissuade your words, say: no, we treat this judgment as an interpretation judgment, it is not conflicting at all. That's what he might say. He used to say that. Well, it's just management by sowing uncertainty. And we want certainty. We want to be clear: the principles of the Polish Constitution and the Polish Constitutional tradition were violated because we were a country distinguished in terms of protecting the independence of the judiciary. We are in a land of uncertainty, which could end very badly for Poland. I said clearly yesterday: there is one person who is happy about it. This is Vladimir Putin, I'm sure he's happy about it. Probably not only him, but the Russians certainly enjoy such a turn of events, from the isolation of Poland, from the collision with Brussels. Well, just read the history of Polish-Russian relations since Catherine II to know who's happy about it. Our enemies are pleased. But the unknown is the place where the chief, the leader of the power camp, will lead his political camp. And in this world of uncertainty We need to be clear. Yes, I will vote in favour of this resolution because the Senate is expressing itself in defence of the fundamental principles of the Polish constitutional tradition, the Polish Constitution and national security. The challenge for Polish policy is active, subjective presence in the European Union, fighting for real interests, not using foreign policy to protect destructive internal policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u155	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear fellow countrymen! This motion for a resolution arose out of concern for the fate of the Republic of Poland, out of love for the Republic and out of the wisdom brought by the history of the Republic. It is an expression of our concern that Poland will be outside the anchor of security and prosperity, the Western community, that is, in today's world, the European Union. This is a thesis that should be understood for every patriot. In this world, with aggressive Russia, Poland is safer and more prosperous... Otherwise, it has a chance to be more secure and prosperous within the European Union. All other scenarios are worse for Poland. Over the past six years, the rule of law and justice have tested these scenarios more or less courageously or aggressively. We remember announcing an iron alliance with Great Britain. None of this is clear at the moment, the United Kingdom is no longer in the Union. We remember not even a senseless betting on an alliance with the United States, because of course it is always in the interest of the Republic of Poland, but quite a lysian attitude towards one American politician. We can see what it's done. Right now, we've had the worst relationship since 1989 with the United States. We remember the project of the Intermarriage or the Tri-marriage. As he is serious in a strategic or geopolitical sense, you can see when he shakes him, even a smaller part of it, i.e. Visegrad, a dispute with the Czech Republic about Turów wrapped up in several years of lack of negotiations by the Government of PiS with the Czech Neighbor. Such a small dispute leads to the fact that the Prime Minister of the Republic is not going to the top of Visegrad to the supposedly favourite Hungary. Why is the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of Julia Przyłębska dangerous for Poland? Why is he the key that opens up the possibility of further pushing Poland out of the centre of European policy and from full membership of the European Union? The fact that our membership is no longer full, that it is a second category, can be seen after that for several months because of the attack of the PiS government on independent courts we cannot obtain European funds that the payments of heavy billions needed by Polish farmers, Polish entrepreneurs, Polish local governments are being withheld. And that's the essence of that sentence. This judgment is not about whether European law is compatible with the Polish constitution or not. There's only one thing in this sentence. For the defence of the jump to the courts, in particular the formation of the Polish Constitution of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, i.e. so that the ruling party can control the most important courts and judges of the Republic of Poland. That's all this is about. He's dressed in a shamfage of sovereignty and defense of the constitution, but that's not what it's all about. Why is the course of Jarosław Kaczyński contrary not only to the interests of the Republic of Poland, but also to the presence of Poland in the European Union? Of course, this presence will not end overnight, but it is already weakened. This could all end tragically, i.e. the exit of Poland from the European Union. Why? Because the meaning of Jarosław Kaczyński's rule is the increasing power, not controlled by anyone. Laws, courts, media, parliament... I stress: power uncontrolled by no one. This is seen in practice 6 years of governing Jarosław Kaczyński. The European Union cannot afford that such a country, de facto authoritarian, in which the law does not work, does not operate independent courts, does not operate free media, is a member of it, because it limits the rights of other countries forming the European Union. The basis of the state which is being built by Jarosław Kaczyński is what we heard about in this House 4 hours ago from the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, a system that makes sense to stuffing people, families and members of the governing party. This is the sense, this is the nature of the country that Jarosław Kaczyński creates. This trial... Because this isn't the only event we're responding to, which is yesterday's judgment of the Constitutional Court. This is a process. I remind you that for months now, a festival of hatred for the European Union, disgusting it, showing that it is disabled and on the verge of collapse has been held in the state television controlled by the PiS. I also remind you of quotations from the most important politicians of the ruling party, e.g. the fact that we need to look for drastic solutions for membership of the European Union that the British have shown us. The head of your parliamentary club said so. The Minister of your government spoke about the aggression of the European Union and the hybrid war on the part of the European Union against the Polish democratic system. These are all steps that could end badly. And I will end because the state in speeches often waters all this with the sauce of independence, sovereignty of the Republic of Poland... History teaches us that in the 18th century, those who had mouths full of platitudes about the size and sovereignty of the Republic of Poland were led to the fall of the Republic of Poland, but in fact they were only mindful of their own arenas, folklores, redheads, but then there were rubles. Today, those who have a mouthful of clichés about sovereignty in this matter are really only about stools in state Treasury companies and state foundations. So I want to make it clear that those who vote in favour of this resolution will act patriotically because they will defend Poland's place in Europe, which gives Poland more security and wealth, and those who vote against will defend the interests of the ruling party and the rights of members of the PiS to continue to steal the country. The choice is clear. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u157	Thank you, Senator. And I'd like you to take the floor of Senator Raphael the locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This pep talker's heard things before. I think there's been a discussion on this platform. That I would use Mr.Rusink's term to hyperbolise reality, there was a certain excess of the word, it was to harness high ethical points to trivial things, it was insulting, it was to dissuade the political opponent, in my opinion to a much greater extent from the Senate majority in relation to the Senate opposition. But I will agree with the fact that today, today, entitles us to what Herbert calls great words. In another place, however, I see a reason for these great words. Not in yesterday's ruling of the Constitutional Court, which, I believe, has one sad aspect, that the Constitutional Tribunal had to rule on the obvious, and one comforting aspect that ruled according to the obvious. This moment justifying the use of great words is the resolution that the State is proposing. Because I've never been in my parliamentary work at a point where I'd have to vote like this. Sometimes he would choose to weigh right, some lesser evil. Sometimes you'd go. ♪ I'm not hiding ♪ Maybe it's stupid, which turned out to be in retrospect. However, in the current situation, I, ladies and gentlemen, have no choice. Please note that we are not discussing two texts: the text of the Treaty of Lisbon and the text of the Polish Constitution. There is another third text, which, contrary to my predecessor's statement, I am unable to call a phrase. This is the text of the senate vow: "I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. So help me God. This is the text that each of you said on 12 November 2019 for the beginning of this term of office. That is why I feel that I have no choice but to vote against this resolution. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u159	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Today's speech will be dedicated to the granddaughter of Lucia, who is not yet 3 years old, mainly because I will not talk about the treaty, nor about this proposal, but about the effects that this ruling will have in the future, the present state of things, and what we want to warn about in order to guarantee a clearer future. It's a matter of responsibility. I clearly want to emphasise something that was important in 2009 and then in 2010 and which was: the Treaty of Lisbon is not the solutions that take away the subjectivity from anyone. President Lech Kaczyński said so. Today we are looking at what is happening with this treaty, with our membership of the European Union, with great, dramatic concern. Under the pretext of defending sovereignty, the foundations of independence are being undermined. And that is the most important message that comes from the current political situation. Whether or not there is a contradiction between the Constitution and the Treaties of the European Union is indeed debatable. However, I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Tribunal settled this issue in 2010 when no one on the political side questioned the sovereignty of the institution, its independence, and its competences. The other thing is very important to me, and I'm gonna stop at it for a second. It is important to know where the question of Prime Minister Moravian addressed to the Constitutional Tribunal came from. The question, if simplified, was this: what is more important: the Constitution or the Treaty? I believe that if the Prime Minister asks such a question to the Constitutional Court, and we all know in this Chamber what the answer is, he should resign. Because whether or not someone graduated from law school or has a good M.A., they know about the Constitution's primacy. However, I would like to make it clear that this question was referred to the Constitutional Court on the basis of something: the desire to build a situation where our membership of the European Union on the basis of certain treaties is simply being undermined. And now it's important why she wanted to. What in these treaties or in judgments, e.g. institutions like the TSUE may not like it? That's the most important question. And please note that neither the TSEU nor the Venice Commission at the invitation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the PiS Government, however it may be, nor any other institution has built either a judgment or an opinion or a suggestion. They did so every time at the request of a citizen of the Republic of Poland, either injured or concerned, or who wanted to clarify a matter. In short, the possibility of assistance was expected. So what was the fight in front of these institutions for? It was a fight for sovereignty, I stress, about the sovereignty of the institutions of the Polish state And it does not like that; for judicial independence, and this is a matter which is already the subject of several very important judgments. This is also the defence of citizens affected by various institutions of the Polish state I don't like it. So, in fact, the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Poland are disliked, and this must be said directly. There is also a search for guarantees for the autonomy of our institutions, institutions of the state, still democratic. I'm talking about all this with concern. I do not go into the details of the ruling itself, I was convinced that it would be so, but I enter into polemics with those who claim that the justification is whether it is in the Polish state's right. It doesn't fit, it's against the Polish state. This justification, which we heard yesterday and which justified our distance to the institutions of the European Union, is unacceptable. There was a de facto vote against our statement, which sounded something like that, if I remember: that the Senate should not be involved in politics. My hands are down. How can the Senate not be involved in politics? So what's he supposed to do? Cucumber crop, carrots? We have a policy here, above all, to defend the independence, sovereignty of the Polish state, so that citizens live better, easier and safer in this country, so that they do not lose their powers also in defence of their legal interests, one or another. I would like the Senate to express itself unambiguously in this matter, above all for one important reason: that those who look at us with increasing doubt hope. And I am talking here not about the European Union, but about Poles, about compatriots. The point is that they will not lose hope that Poland will be democratic for these 5, 10, 15 years and will not be in the Warsaw Agreement, but in the European Union. I know that this Warsaw Pact sounds very patriotic, because Warsaw is there, but it had nothing to do with our business, our reason for the state. It is Brussels, although there is no Warsaw, that sounds much better as the address of our belonging to the European family. And that's what we need to defend. I'm gonna point it out again. What is the subject of my speech today is not an analysis of the Court's ruling, it is not an analysis or a question of the quality of this institution now or a strengthening of our vote in this statement. My vote is primarily to prove that yesterday's decision will not serve the Polish state in the future, is dangerous, is devastating, is worrying, has serious, undefined effects today, that the source of this decision is, first of all, the rulings of the Court of Justice, of the various European institutions which are in the interest of the citizens of the Polish State, and that the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal, one or another, contained in the ruling that took place, was caused by the Prime Minister, who asked what was more important. Once again, if he doesn't know, he should resign. We Poles, citizens certainly know: the constitution is in the first place Despite the fact that Alexander Kwasniewski signed there It is more important than EU legislation. No one's questioning that. We only believe that the Treaty of Lisbon, ratified by the sacred memory of Lech Kaczyński, is in force. Under it not only Lech Kaczyński signed, but also most of our compatriots, Poles signed this ratification, they agreed that EU rules, in a certain state, in a specific way, would also work and affect our reality. And it can't be that in certain situations someone doesn't like it, so he's going to try to get us out of the European family. And today the Senate will state in this statement I hope this will happen. That it is an institution that sees the dangers arising from the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which was presented yesterday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u161	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. [[I'm quitting.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Senator Marek Komorowski. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I think remotely... Are you Senator Marek Komorowski? [[I'm here. Can you hear me?]] You can hear the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u162	I can hear you. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I believe that the draft resolution, the resolution, is wrong and completely unnecessary. It was created not out of concern for Poland, but out of frustration. You don't want to hear what we say, you don't want to hear our arguments. But I will remind you of the speeches and statements of the Constitutional Court which were announced earlier. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński stated in his earlier speech that the will of the Polish institutionalist is, however, also that the constitution is an act of the highest legal power in the state normative order. Before the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, he stated that the Constitutional Tribunal was the guardian of the Constitution of the Republic. The Polish basic law is deeply and permanently anchored in the basic regulations of the civilized society, contained in the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This makes it possible for the Court, while protecting the Constitution, to contribute simultaneously to the protection of generally accepted principles of international law and fundamental rights and freedoms. The Constitution as the highest law of the Republic of Poland retains primacy and primacy over all normative acts in force on the territory of the Republic of Poland, including Union law. The Treaty of Lisbon confirmed the importance of the constitutional identity of the Member States. This means that constitutional courts will play an important role in protecting it. In its judgment of 16 November 2011, the Court, chaired by Mr Andrzej Rzepliński, stated that EU regulations are legal acts whose position in the Polish constitutional system has been designated in Article. Article 91 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions. One of the principles of Union law is the principle of primacy of Union law, formerly Community law, in relation to the law of the Member States. In turn, the article. Article 91 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 the Constitution gives priority to the standards of EU regulations in the case of conflicts with laws. However, the Constitution retains primacy and primacy over all legal acts in force in the Polish Constitutional Order, including EU law. Such a position of the Constitution arises from the Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and was confirmed in the previous case law of the Constitutional Tribunal, which is to protect the constitution which is the highest law in Poland. With this in mind, I must also state that the Constitutional Tribunal is obliged to understand its role so as to preserve the position of the court of the last word in fundamental matters of a constitutional and institutional dimension. In its judgment of 11 May 2015, the Constitutional Tribunal chaired by Mr Marek Safjan stated that Poland's accession to the European Union does not undermine the status of the Constitution as the highest law of the Republic of Poland. In the territory of the country of the Constitution, priority shall be given to the validity and application of international agreements, including for all binding Poland, including agreements conferring powers on state authorities to international organisations, and even more so. In relation to the standards derived from Community law. As provided for in Article. Article 91 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 3 of the Constitution priority is given to the application of the ratified international agreement, as well as to the right established by an international organisation under such an agreement before the Polish law, in no case constitutes their priority before the Constitution. So many judgments. I'd like to conclude by saying yes. We're not talking about having a relationship with... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...the Constitutional Tribunal, hence the duty to uphold the Constitution. All of us, Senators of the Republic of Poland, this duty to uphold the Constitution applies. I believe that... I'm filing a motion for rejection of a resolution, a resolution. I'm signing off on all the voices that were kind of heading in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u163	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u164	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'll be very, very brief. I'm not gonna make any argument here, either legal or philosophical. I don't know anything about that. I don't have that kind of education. I will be very brief and quick to say why I will vote against this resolution, against this resolution and why I will say that it is disgraceful. Because my mother is not the European Union, my mother is not a party. My mother is Poland and therefore I will be against this resolution and will consider her shameful. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u165	Thank you very much, Senator. In this way, we have exhausted the list of senators put forward for discussion. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. The discussion is closed. [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Senator Klich...]] Oh, and Senator Klich and Marshal Pop, I'm sorry. Mr. Marshal Pop applied during the speech. I would also like to inform you that Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I propose that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the project at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. I don't hear any objections. The Senate has accepted the motion. I'm ordering a recess... I am sending a proposal to the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union to prepare a report. I'll announce a recess by 4:00 p.m. After the break, the vote will take place. Wait for the announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u166	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I kindly inform you that the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the examination of the requests submitted at the 30th Senate meeting for a motion for a resolution on the place of Poland in the European Union, will take place 15 minutes after the announcement of a break in Senate session in room 217. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 48 to 16 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u167	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 27, 28 and 29 October this year. The agenda for this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means, but I must warn you that it will be abundant. Set your mind to three days. Before joining the voting block, we will hold a test vote. I'm asking you to give me any vote. I would like to remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the meeting of the need to click on the "OK" button and then press the "Tell" button twice after the vote and in response to the confirmation question. Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted. It's just information. One of the people who voted remotely didn't see to it. Pay attention to that. We return to the first item on the agenda: Act amending the Budget Law for 2021. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution requesting an amendment to the Act, a minority of committees submitted a proposal for adoption of the Act without amendment of Senate Print No 519 A. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 47 were in favour, 51 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we proceed to the vote on the proposal for an amendment to the law. The amendment increases the amount of grants to the NFZ by PLN 6 billion 300 million at the expense of reducing national defence property expenditure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 53 for, 44 against, 2 abstentions. (Vote No 4) We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Two remote senators, please pay attention to sending a signal. Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. (Vote No 5) In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Budget Law for 2021. We return to the second agenda: the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021 and the Law on the Income of Local Government Units. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Senate Act No 520 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. If you release me from reading the justification for the amendments... Yes? [[Voice from the room: Yes, we're slowing down.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Then we shall proceed to the vote. Attention, amendments 1, 4, 5 and 7 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 97 for, 3 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 99 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 99 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021 and the Law on the Income of Local Government Units. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Income of Local Government Units and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate, prepared a joint report on this matter. It is available in print 494 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The joint committees request amendments Nos 1, 3, 5, 7 Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u169	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion the conclusions were made by pleno titulo senators: Jacek Bury, Władysław Komarnicki, Józef Zając, Wojciech Nebula. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 votes, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 12]] Attention, amendments 3, 5, 22, 27, 29 and 30 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments excludes voting on Amendments 4 and 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes for, 45 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 13]] Attention, amendments 7 and 21 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes for, 45 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 8. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm gonna ask one Senator from the remote to see if he sent a signal. [[Mr. Marshal, Amendments 9 and 10...]] Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator rapporteur, I have here that Amendments 9, 12, 13, etc., and you said that Nos 9 and 10... [[I said nine and ten others, which is 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17...]] Oh, good. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 15]] Note that amendments Nos 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 20, 23, 26 and 28 must be voted in total in block. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted 99 for, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 10. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 11. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Mr. Bosacki and Mr. Breeza... 98 senators voted, 53 for, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 18]] Attention, Amendment 18 will rule out voting on Amendment 19. Voting on Amendment 18. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 7 in favour, 92 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 19. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 20]] Now... Yeah, I can see that. Attention, amendments 24 and 32 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 54 for, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 25. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One senator voting remotely... Check your voice mail. Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 31. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 54 for, 43 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 33. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 votes, 45 against, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 24]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty Act. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate Print No 502 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the excise duty Act. We would like to return to the discussion of item 5 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on State aid to raise children and certain other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they ask for the rejection of the bill "Senator's Print No 493 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committees on the rejection of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 51 votes for, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 27]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on State aid in raising children and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 499 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Report from the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The committees at their meeting on 8 October considered the proposals submitted during the debate. There was a motion to reject the law and this request was supported by a majority of the joint committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u171	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senators Adam Szejnfeld, Jolanta Hibner, Władysław Komarnicki, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Wojciech Konieczny submitted their conclusions during the discussion. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: Za, za.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 46 votes 51 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 28]] In the face of the rejection of the motion for rejection, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 48 votes 51 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted 99 in favour, no one voted against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted 99 for, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 31]] Attention, Amendment 4 will rule out voting on Amendments 5 and 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 50 for, 49 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 32]] Attention, Amendment 7 will rule out voting on Amendment 8. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 98 were in favour, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 9, which will rule out voting on Amendment 10. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 34]] Attention, the vote on Amendments 11 and 12 is cumulative. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 35]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Marshal Moravian-Stanecka voting? Yes. Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, 98 were in favour, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 36]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject, published in print No 496 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Halina Poora, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Joint Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure at its meeting on 8 October, namely today, have examined the proposals made during the debate and recommend to the High Senate that the High House adopt the proposals set out in points II (1), (2) and (3). Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u173	Thank you very much. Does Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz want to speak? [[No, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the people voting remotely... Please check the signal. Because we lose 20 seconds every time. Please state the results of the vote. One person connects or doesn't connect... 100 senators voted, 2 were in favour, 98 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 37]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that we have rejected the proposal for a law without amendments. So we are voting on Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 38]] Attention, amendments 2 and 3 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 39]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law on amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print 497 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u174	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Joint committees, i.e. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, at its meeting on 8 October, discussed the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on 7 October 2021 on the Law amending the Law on Foreigners and on certain other laws and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate would like to accept the proposal contained in the first point, i.e. the proposal to reject the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u175	Thank you very much, Marshal. Do Senator Marek Borowski or the other Senators of the rapporteur, who were Senator Seweryński and Senator Gromek, still want to speak? They don't want to. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Bober is voting? He's considering it. I see. Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 49 for, 49 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 41]] The conclusion was not received by the majority. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 51 votes for, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 2 aims to take into account the technique... Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 99 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 99 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 44]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 50 votes, 45 against, and five senators abstained. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Foreigners and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and some other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 495 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions have examined the amendments tabled and recommended the adoption of the proposals set out in points 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8 and 9. Amendment 3 did not obtain the required majority. I pay particular attention to Amendment 8, which prohibits the merger of parliamentary mandate with employment in State Treasury companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u177	Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion by Senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Jan Filip Libicki and Ryszard Bober. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your Marshal Blanket... Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 52 votes for, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 2 for, 97 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 48]] Attention, amendments 4, 5, 7 and 9 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 54 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 8. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 55 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 50]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 51]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print No 498 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Arthur Dunin, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today a meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure was held at which Amendment 9 was withdrawn. Other amendments, No 1 to No 8 and No 10 to No 15... The Infrastructure Commission recommends that they be adopted. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u179	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Let me remind you that you have reached conclusions from the senators Arthur Dunin and Jan Hamerski. I would like to remind you that the Committee on Infrastructure has withdrawn its proposal in Section 9 in print No 498 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? I don't see any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the act as a whole, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 52]] You've spoken to Senator Arndt... [[He talks a lot.]] Amendment 2. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We vote, we vote.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Make it quick...]] Is Marshal Blanket voting? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: How about we group it up, Mr. Marshal?]] Gentlemen of the Commission, I can group, I just need permission. Please state the results of the vote. [[You can vote like that...]] Mr Hamerski, really? [[Yes.]] Okay. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll block the amendments. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 55]] In view of the consistent votes of the committee presidents, I propose that all amendments be voted together. It's about Amendments 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13... [[The voice in the room: 9th is gone...]] The ninth is withdrawn. ... No 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: Four more.]] The fourth was just now, the fourth was already voted out. Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 56]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 57]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Aviation Law and the Law on Border Guard. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of the law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 58]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Aviation Law and the Law on Border Guard. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Construction Law and the Law on Planning and Land Planning. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they ask for the rejection of the Senate Act No 503 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees, on the motion to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 59]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Construction Law and the Law on Land Planning and Land Planning. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage, drawn up at Strasbourg on 8 November 2001. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Culture and Media have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. These are senate prints Nos 501 A and 501 B. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 60]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act on the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage, drawn up at Strasbourg on 8 November 2001. We would like to return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda... [[Voice from room 14th.]] No, on the 15th, because the 14th was President NIK's information. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the place of Poland in the European Union. Following a second reading, the Senate sent a motion for a resolution to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 521 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Bogdan Klich, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u180	Mr Marshal, the joint committees you mentioned recommend that the two amendments be adopted at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u181	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Let me remind you that proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled by Senators Pęk, Kwiatkowski and Klich. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you like to make such a request? No. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the motion for a resolution and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments in the order of the text. Following the vote on the amendments tabled, we will proceed with the vote on the motion for a resolution entitled "Print No 521 S' in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed to the vote on the motion by Vice-Marshal Mark Pak to reject the motion for a resolution. [[Voice from the room: Against.]] Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: Za.]] [[Voice from the room: Against.]] [[Voice from the room: Who opposes?]] [[Voice from the room: Against.]] [[Voice from the room: Za.]] [[Voice from the room: Against.]] [[Voice from the room: Za.]] [[Voice from the room: Against.]] [[(Voice from the hall: I can't hear you.]] Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Nobody cracks.]] Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 48 for, 52 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 61]] In the face of the rejection of the motion for a resolution, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: Za.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 56 votes, 34 against, eight senators abstained. [[Voting No 62]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: Za.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 votes, 35 against, 11 senators abstained. [[Voting No 63]] We are voting on the motion for a resolution on the place of Poland in the European Union, as amended by the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: Za.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 64]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the place of Poland in the European Union. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 30th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u182	Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. I'd like to make a statement to Senator Alicia Chybicka, remotely... [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] Oh, there's the senator. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement will cover three different cases. The first case, which has already been presented before, but actually nothing has changed in it, concerns the University Children's Hospital in Krakow, where 26 doctors have been released, and the director, Professor Krzysztof Fyderek, has resigned from being a director, from performing this function. All because this hospital has 40 million debts and there's a problem with opt-outs. For those who may not know what it means, I will explain that this is a reduction in the number of hours of work done by individual doctors, which makes it impossible to fill the shifts. My question is to the Ministry of Health: what has been done in this case, so that this facility, which actually covers all children from the region of southern Poland... There's a children's oncology clinic there, which I'm afraid will also be compromised at some point. She's not on the list yet, but unfortunately she can. This is the first statement and I'm sending it to the Minister of Health. The second statement is addressed to the Minister of Culture, and it concerns the military medicine museum, which was located at the Military Medical Academy and when it was liquidated, then operated at the Medical University in Łódź. In 2017 the museum was to begin renovation. Marek Garlicki, a descendant of both great people, i.e. a Member of Poland before the war, and his father, professor, orthopedician, whose details, but also priceless, worth tens of thousands of sculptures, were submitted to this museum. The question to the Minister is, what happened to this museum? I'm asking because it doesn't work at the moment, and in any case, there aren't all the things that the sons of Professor Garlicki, Mr. Garlicki, put there. And a third statement, very short, to the Minister of Health. I received a letter from the sick and psychiatrists asking when Kariprazin would be on the reimbursement list because September 1st of this drug was not there, and I received a letter asking after September 20th. It is a medicine used in schizophrenia, necessary for the proper life of people who have schizophrenia in a severe form. Will it be in the next tranche? And if you don't, I kindly ask you to answer the question of why he's not here, if scientific research indicates that this is the best drug. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u184	Thank you, Senator. You will now make a statement to Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk. Local government, business and social organisations operating in the surroundings of the Gdynia Port and representatives of the maritime sector addressed in September this year an appeal to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland and to the government to take urgent action in order to immediately undertake the construction of the Red Road in Gdynia. The construction of the Red Road is a strategic investment for the development of the maritime economy and plans for the development and expansion of the Gdynia Port, as well as increasing the availability of port and city communication infrastructure. It is of great importance from the perspective of the development challenges of the port, city, region, but also the whole country. The prime minister and ministers, including representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, have often publicly expressed their support and stated the need for this key investment and made promises to take concrete action. It should be noted with concern that since the signing in November 2020 by representatives of the Maritime Management Board of Gdynia SA and the Gdynia City Office of the agreement defining the concept of the conduct of the Red Way by the Ministry of Infrastructure, no significant actions have been taken to contribute to the implementation of the investment. Furthermore, it is unacceptable that this key investment of strategic importance for the national economy and improving the quality of life of Gdynia and all of Pomerania was not included in the prepared and targeted public consultation of the Government's National Roads Construction Programme by 2030, with a view to 2033. This is also contrary to the efforts and investment plans of the Polish state in the Gdynia Port. The lack of the Red Way significantly inhibits the development of the port, Gdynia and Pomerania. Therefore, I ask for the following information to answer the following questions. First of all, is the red road construction project a priority for the ministry? Secondly, why was the construction of the Red Road not included in the Government's National Road Construction Program until 2030? Thirdly, will the construction of the Red Road be incorporated into the Government's National Road Construction Programme by 2030? If so, when, and if not, why? Fourthly, at what stage are work on the construction and construction project of the Red Road at present? Fifthly, the important question is, what concrete measures will be taken to implement the investment in question in the near future? Sixthly, is there a timetable for the implementation of the investment? If so, what, if not, is it for what reasons and when will it be determined? Finally, after seven, are the state budget provided for the project work and the construction of the Red Way? If they are, how much, if they are not, then for what reasons and is it planned to provide such resources and to what extent? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u186	Thank you, Senator. Your statement will now be delivered by Senator Krzysztof Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to make a statement on the catastrophic quantities of timber exported from Poland. High Izbo, at the beginning of September I received a reply from the head of the CSO, which shows that in recent months and years Polish wood is exported extensively abroad. While 646 m3 of pine were exported in 2017, it was 1.6 million m3 by 2020. This is an increase of more than twice. And in the first 5 months of 2021 alone, until May, as many as 800,000 m3 of Polish pine were transported abroad, i.e. more than in the whole of 2017. It's the same with birch. In 2017, 32 thousand m3, in 2020 46 thousand m3. And in the first five months of this year, 74 thousand m3 of birches were transported abroad. Spruces and fir. In 2017, 375 thousand m3, last year, 853 m3. So there's been a double jump. And in the first 5 months of this year alone, there was also more of this than in the whole of 2017. As many as 380 thousand m3 spruce and firwood were transported abroad. The Ministry of Climate Affairs informed me that in August this year a team was set up to support Polish entrepreneurship. When I put this information on Twitter, the Polish Chamber of Commerce of the Wood Industry, which wrote that the team had not gathered yet. This band never got together. Nobody talks to Polish entrepreneurs about restricting Polish timber exports. It is exported to China, Germany, Sweden, the Czech Republic, other countries. We know what the prices of wood are at present on the market. The prices of wood jumped, and Polish entrepreneurs do not have this wood. Hence the question to the Prime Minister: what is the Prime Minister going to do with this case? The second statement is also addressed to the Prime Minister. [[It was supposed to be short.]] A very brief statement, Mr. Marshal, but on a very important matter. [[I see...]] This is the case of the A8 Audi limousine crashed as a result of the Auschwitz accident. Questions to the Prime Minister relate to the fact that this vehicle was purchased in December 2016 for the amount of PLN 2.5 million, and 1.5 months later it crashed in the Auschwitz accident and was secured for the purpose of the proceedings at the request of the prosecution. This Audi A8, then worth PLN 2.5 million, to this day, since over 4.5 years, stands in a police parking lot in the Lesser Poland Voivodeship. I intervened at the SOP, at the M.E.A., at the D.A.'s office. Everyone treats this vehicle like a cuckoo egg. And we know what happens to a vehicle worth PLN 2.5 million, which is not started for four years. Given the enormous losses of the State Treasury, I call on the Prime Minister to take a personal interest in this matter and to instruct the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration to take action to recover this vehicle and correct it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-08-senat-31-2.u188	Thank you, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 30th first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The first 30th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X Kadence is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 17 minutes 14]]
