ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have problems, please contact us by phone at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I'm asking for a vote. I'm gonna need the results. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I've got a better score. [[Joy in the Chamber]] 51 people voted. [[Voting No 3]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] But I have here... [[Voice from the room: Only...]] What's it like? I'll have an employee. We're repeating the test vote. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. We vote, ladies and gentlemen, we vote. I'm gonna need the results. [[Room voice: 77.]] Good. Thank you. 77 senators took part in the vote. [[Voting No 4]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to inform you that today, 25 March, is the Day of Freedom of Belarus. [[Everybody up.]] [[Senators keep up posters with the white and red and white flag of Belarus and the action logo]] It is a celebration celebrated by the Belarusian opposition, not recognized by the government of Aleksandra Lukashenka as a national holiday. It commemorates the announcement on 25 March 1918 of the establishment of an independent State, the Belarusian People's Republic. I would like to launch in the Senate of the Republic of Poland an action of light for Belarus, aimed at demonstrating solidarity and support for our Belarusian neighbours who, since August last year, have been calling out for democratic freedoms. Among the repressed and detained for their activities are also representatives of the Polish organization, Andzelika Borys, its president, and Andrzej Poczobut. The Senate wishes to join this action in a gesture of solidarity with the citizens of Belarus, which is why the white and red and white flag of independent Belarus is displayed on the screens in the Senate meeting room. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the amendment of the Rail Transport Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 338 and the report of the Commission In print No 338 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It has been my honour to present a report to the Infrastructure Commission on the amendment of the Rail Transport Act, print No 338 A. The purpose of this Law, the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport, is to partially implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 No 797 on the interoperability of the rail system in the European Union and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council also of 11 May 2016 No 798 on railway safety, which are part of the so-called. the technical part of the fourth railway package. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 May 2020 amending the Directives which I have just mentioned as regards the extension of their transposition period, in view of the emergency situation concerning the spread of COVID-19 infections, extended the deadline for transposition of those Directives until 31 October 2020. The Act also contains provisions aimed at ensuring the correct application of a number of implementing acts to the 2016 Directive No 798, in particular: Commission Delegated Regulations establishing common safety methods with regard to the requirements of the safety management system under the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing the Regulation; Commission Implementing Regulation laying down practical rules for the issuing of uniform safety certificates for railway undertakings under the European Parliament Directive; European Commission Implementing Regulation of 16 May 2019 laying down detailed rules for the certification system for entities responsible for the maintenance of vehicles in accordance with the Directive of the European Parliament. In addition, the Act introduces solutions for implementing the European Parliament Regulation on the European Union Railway Agency and repealing the EC Regulation of 2004 No 881. The main changes concern safety documents issued to railway operators which enable them to access railway infrastructure under certain conditions. In place of existing safety certificates in two parts "A' and "B' issued by the so-called "A'. national safety authorities, a single safety certificate issued by the European Union Railway Agency or national safety authorities shall be introduced. Selection of the issuing authority depends on the area of activity If it covers at least 2 Member States... The Act also creates the conditions for the application by the President of the Railway Transport Office of detailed procedures for the issuing of uniform safety certificates referred to in the Regulation. In addition, the Act modifies the requirements for safety management systems set up by railway undertakings and infrastructure managers, which are further detailed in the Regulations. In addition, the Act extends the scope of certification so-called. entities responsible for the maintenance of railway vehicles, in accordance with the Regulation, and modify the rules for obtaining safety authorisation of infrastructure managers and safety certificates for users of railway sidings. The Act also covers a number of other aspects concerning safety in rail transport, including: cooperation with other national safety authorities and with the European Union Railway Agency or the supervision of the President of the Railway Transport Office over railway sector entities. The course of legislative work. The Committee on Infrastructure has gathered, 4 amendments have been tabled, they have been unanimously accepted, the committee has unanimously approved these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u3	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to...? Senator Swede. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about whether the following issue was raised at the committee meeting. The Act deals with a number of aspects relating to safety in rail transport, including: cooperation with other national safety authorities, but also, as you stressed, cooperation with the European Union Railway Agency. I would like to ask: in what ways can the President of the Railway Transport Office conclude agreements with safety authorities from other Member States of the European Union? Is this something precised in the bill? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u5	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u6	I mean, agreements... But here it's an option, if, let's assume... Two countries of the European Union are at stake, but through the Railway Transport Office in Poland all these issues can be solved. So that the transport office stays here... But if, let's say, there's only one country, which is for example. Poland, it is known that the Railway Transport Office respects it all, settles it. And he may also be the intermediary for this European Union agency, if there are two countries, so that it can be an intermediate element.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u7	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u8	I meant in general the form of how this agreement is concluded. Is this some kind of agreement between states? How does it look procedurally and is this procedure described in the Act?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u9	Yes, that is the agreement between the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u10	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Andrzej Bittel like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present a position? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk has already said a lot about this project. I'll try to add a few more words of addition. Of course, the law concerns the implementation of the directives, the 2 directives on the interoperability of the rail system in the European Union and the Railway Safety Directive. This is the fourth railway package, that is, after the introduction of the market part, the partial introduction of the fourth technical package, and this is the last element of the implementation of the fourth railway package. So, once this law is implemented and regulations are adopted on the basis of it, we will have fully harmonised rules within the European Community. The preparation of this project involved market players within 4 working groups preparing the relevant parts of the project. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Railway Transport Office, the Railway Institute, railway carriers, the infrastructure manager, as well as the social side participated in these activities. I am exchanging them at the moment in order to thank all these people and entities for their cooperation in the preparation of this project, because it was a difficult process, as it is a complex technical law, with high specialisation. That's all the more reason to say thank you. Two main issues Although there are a few such actions here These are issues related to the approval procedure for railway vehicles. Senator Lamczyk mentioned it. In the case of approval within the European Union, the European Union Railway Agency will operate in the form of one-stop shop in a digitised manner, applications will be electronic. This is intended to accelerate and facilitate these processes as part of the approval actions. And if this is within the territory of the State concerned, in our case the President of the Railway Transport Office will act and the choice remains for the applicant. The second point, which is very important, is the pre-authorisation of ERTMS, which is extremely important in terms of the coherence of the rail system. We will now pre-authorise all ERTMS processes in the railway agency, and this is also intended to harmonise railway safety activities at technical level. This also means changes in the role of the President of the Railway Transport Office, Senator Lamczyk mentioned this. I would also draw attention to issues related to the provision of assistance to victims. Some obligations are imposed on carriers, such as psychological support for those persons and their families. These are the most important changes. Thank you very much for the amendments tabled at the committee meeting, please accept them. And last but not least, I would like to thank you for the fact that this point was planned today, as I asked for. So, please give your thanks to the Marshal and the Senate Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u12	At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's request to a government representative related to this point. There you go... Oh, Senator Gogacz. Good. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u13	Minister, I have a question about the implementation of the directives. I am referring specifically to the directive on the granting of allowances to train drivers operating locomotives and trains within the Community rail system. I would like to know whether the implementation of this directive is merely, in colloquially speaking, a formality, i.e. We're gonna break up what we've been doing, or it's gonna force some revolutionary change, e.g. in the structure of training of train drivers or in the way in which they are trained. Will this cause any difficulties for the Polish state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u14	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I don't think it's going to be difficult. We, as part of the activities carried out at the Railway Transport Office or the Ministry of Infrastructure, are preparing a reform related to the examination of train drivers, and probably as a consequence their preparation for the profession. These activities are carried out on the basis of our best knowledge and skills of railway safety professionals.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u16	Thank you. Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u17	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you a question because I have such information that the law extends the scope of certification so-called. entities responsible for the maintenance of railway vehicles, in accordance with the Regulation, shall also modify the rules for obtaining safety authorisation by infrastructure managers and safety certificates for users of railway sidings. I would like to ask what it is to extend this scope of certification. Is this something to do with the directive? Is this described in this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u18	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u19	All obligations which are added or assigned to specific entities are solely the result of the Directive. This is why this extension is taking place.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u20	There you go, senator one more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u21	Minister, one more question. This amendment is the result of the directive, and we will now generally have uniform rules on rail safety within the European Union. And I will ask, going a little outside the framework of this project: what it looks like in our neighbours, especially those who are not in the European Union, those in the east I think of Ukraine, Belarus, in terms of rail safety? Are there any conversations? How's it look? Do you have that knowledge?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u22	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u23	These issues relating to our neighbours who are not members of the European Union are obviously dealt with by means of acts concluded between national railways, between countries. So it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u24	Thank you. Senator Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u25	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question of a different kind, namely the SRK keys, you know what I'm talking about. How do you see the solution to this problem? Because this problem has been since 2017, I'm talking about the digital interface. What's the idea in this regard? Because right now we are dependent on foreign services and, you can say, to some extent we have a monopoly on all of this, there are 2 companies that share the entire market. What's the solution?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u26	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u27	I think there are more than two companies, and these are large European companies that operate throughout the rail market. I think that this problem is gradually managed by technical interpretation specifications. I hope that we will also lead to a situation where service services will not be as expensive as they are right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u28	Senator Lamczyk again. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u29	Minister, it was the KIO's judgments that made it clear that the owner of railway lines, i.e. Polish Railway Lines, should also have an SRK. Is there any idea of a legal arrangement for this case? We talked about this in 2017. I thought all this was gonna happen with these tenders in some way, but I see we're still in the same place.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u30	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u31	The infrastructure manager obviously has an SRK and has full control of the railway safety system, because it could not be otherwise. For him, the services are performed by those who built this system. And this is indeed a very complicated process to change this situation. Slowly, slowly, I hope. This will be the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u32	Senator Swede. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u33	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, one more question. The basic amendments to this draft law concern safety documents issued to railway operators which enable them to access railway infrastructure under certain conditions. I would like to ask about the permits granted by the President of the Railway Transport Office in various situations. Is there any tightening in this directive, or is it a relaxation, or is the situation actually unchanged, that is, the directive does not change anything in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u34	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u35	The answer to the question of whether there are relaxations or exacerbations is, of course... I think that these actions, which are described in the Act, are designed to maintain a high standard of security. And such solutions are also written here. I would like to point out that the Polish railroad is a very safe railroad. President Kamil Wilde will tell me how many events we have at 1 million train kilometers, but this is even better than in 2019. Of course you can say that there is a pandemic and a little less traffic, but the rate per million train kilometres is objective, because it concerns the actual transport work done. So that we will maintain the level of railway safety at a very high level, including within these provisions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u36	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u37	Minister, this question just came from the fact that I know that we are in the European Union such a card in terms of rail, in terms of safety. That's why I asked if this directive is helping us here, whether it supports security or... He supports, he supports. ...we have laws that will make us...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u38	It supports and at the same time allows to refer to other railway systems in such a way that it is absolutely possible to objective comparison.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u39	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, right now. At least in my voivodship Some local railway lines are to be revitalized. They're just in the field with some junkyard junkyards still out there. Yeah, but there are plans to do it. Please tell me whether this will be easier or more difficult based on these new rules. Or, for example, Do we have a choice when it comes to using European regulations and our Polish regulations? Because in addition to real action in the field, it will have to be built legally. Or, for example, Will the start of these activities also be important? Which rules are to be applied?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u41	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u42	This question I would answer in this way: we have been applying technical interoperability specifications for many years and the level of safety is consistent with what is happening in other countries. Of course, we have other ways, i.e. regional, national means of securing. And they will evaluate towards unification. Only that I would point out that in the case of regional railway lines which will not be covered e.g. ERTMS, because they are not so important from the point of view of the system today - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. The requirements will certainly be lower than those for ERTMS. And these are the differences that can also cause the regeneration of the regional, less frequent railway line to be simpler and cheaper.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u43	Thank you. Senator Lamczyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u44	Minister, I would just like to refer to digitization. Namely, we know that on 15 December the system was to be implemented on the line E65 Gdynia, Warsaw. I've got reports from the train drivers on how the radio signal went down between the RBC stations. So the signal was fading, and the drivers also said that they saw the corners open in the system, and they were shut down, so they were suddenly braking, and so on. That's why there was a delay in these trains. Also on the E20 route, i.e. Kunowice Terespol did not work well, besides Wroclaw Legnica... What are the issues of digitalization, the first step... How are you guys doing?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u45	Well, there you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u46	Mr. Senator, it works very well. Don't make it look like something's not working because it's working. The system operates, also on railway line No 9, and is under constant supervision. Recently... Mr. Senator was talking about the line to Gdansk, but it's railroad number 9, I think... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Come on, corridor E65. Maybe that's how I'd define it. This difficult new implementation, implemented by PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe on the basis of a contract with a consortium, i.e. with 2 leading companies, which are responsible in Poland for carrying out such projects, resulted in the fact that PKP Intercity has certain possibilities to reduce the cast in trains, which means that from the point of view of the system we can drive at speeds up to 200 km/h on those sections that are at 200 km/h. And the fact that there were glitches in the implementation... They're being eliminated on an ongoing basis. Yeah, I confirm that they were and are eliminated on an ongoing basis. The system is secure. [[Thank you... again, senator?]] [[Yes. But, Minister, the line, let's assume, E20, and the same Terespol... it's just as bad there.]] I don't have that kind of information, but, of course, I'm gonna check it out, and I'm gonna be happy to turn myself in. Saying everything's wrong... That would mean trains don't ride, and I think they do. [[But there are delays, Minister.]] Oh, well, check out the delays. I'll be happy to hold this discussion, but I need to verify that information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u47	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Thank you very much.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, senators Mariusz Gromko and Alexander Swed have made their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. The text of the Act is contained in print No 330 and the committee report In print No 330 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u48	Miss Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 25 February 2021 amending the Law on the Supreme Court. On 2 March 2021, the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 24 March 2021, the committees request the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution on amending the Law on the Supreme Court. The Senate, after considering the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 25 February 2021, makes the following amendments to its text. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 points (1) to (5) and (7) to (9) of Article 1 shall be deleted. Point 6, in the first sentence, the words "5 years' shall be replaced by the words "6 years', Article. 2 is replaced by the following: "The Act shall enter into force on the day following the date of its publication. Ladies and gentlemen, during the committee's meeting, the amendments to this law were tabled by Senator Lydia Staroń In Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 point 6 replacing the words "5 years' by "6 years' and by Senator Aleksander Potiej and Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka', delete the points in the article. 1 and amendment of the content of Article. 2. Dear Marshal, High Senate, it is important to explain why the committee so decided on the fate of this law. The declared purpose of the amendment of the law was to extend the time limit for lodging an emergency complaint against final judgments terminating proceedings in cases which became valid after the entry into force of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, i.e. after 17 October 1997. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 115 §1 as it stands, provides for a three-year time limit for the lodging of an emergency complaint, which is due to expire this year, 3 April 2021. The justification of the projector was the large number of complaints received by the Prosecutor General and the Ombudsman as entities which are entitled to lodge an emergency complaint and the continuous impact of the new proposals. According to the Opinion of the Ombudsman presented to the Senate on 23 March 2021, 8 000 931 complaints were received by the Ombudsman's Office, and 8 000 258 were dealt with. By 23 March 2021, the Ombudsman made 58 emergency complaints and several projects are in preparation. According to the U.S. Attorney General's data, by 31 January 2021, 8,000 508 applications were received and 208 cases were brought by the U.S. Attorney General. It would not be surprising, therefore, that the President of the Republic of Poland proposed an amendment of the Act in this regard, extending the deadline for the submission of a proposal for another 2 years, if not for the fact that the project was submitted in the Seym on 18 February 2021, and on 17 February, the day before, Senator Lidia Staron in the Senate introduced a draft amendment of the Law on the Supreme Court in this respect, extending the deadline for filing a complaint. On 19 February 2021, the Senate adopted a law at its first 20th meeting. Therefore, the presidential project was brought into the Sejm the day after the Senate had introduced the project, and the Sejm passed the bill in principle a week after the Senate passed the law. According to the Ombudsman's opinion, the Ombudsman's Office examines about 70 persons for whom this is an additional obligation. It is worth noting that, following the amendment of the Law on the Supreme Court and the introduction of an emergency complaint, no additional financial resources were allocated for this purpose, so that the Ombudsman's staff could not be increased in such a way as to speed up the process of handling complaints. Despite repeated proposals, the presentation of draft budgets, which were not taken into account by the Sejm at all, the president did absolutely nothing in this regard either. Therefore, this concern for citizens cannot be regarded as an honest intention. In view of these circumstances, however, the Senate Committee decided to accept the amendment that Senator Lydia Staron had tabled at yesterday's meeting. It is a further extension of the deadline for submitting an application, extending it to 6 years, i.e. an additional 3 years instead of the proposed and previously adopted by the Senate 2 years. In fact, there could be an end to the discussion of changes to the Supreme Court Act. Unfortunately, the designer And then the legislature, the Sejm. On the other hand, he introduced a number of other provisions, seemingly ordering, regulating and adapting. And these provisions require a broader discussion. First of all, it is about supplementing the procedures for selecting candidates for the position of President of the Supreme Court, President of the Supreme Court Chamber. These provisions, as provided for by the draftsman, are to align the procedure for the election of the President of the Chamber with the procedure for the election of the first President of the Supreme Court. A revised article. 15 §3 provides that candidates for the post of President of the Supreme Court, the President of the Chamber concerned, will be required to be present consecutively 2/3, 1/2 and finally 1/3 of the number of members of the Assembly of Judges of the Chamber concerned. In turn, in the light of the added §4 in the absence of candidates, the President will entrust the performance of the duties of Supreme Court President to the Supreme Court. It is impossible to move on to the agenda, and it is impossible not to raise constitutional doubts which have already been raised in this House in the context of the debate on the Law of 19 December 2019, i.e. at the third Senate meeting on 15 and 17 January 2020. These doubts concern the non-compliance with Article. 10, 173 and 176. 2 constitutions, that is, with the principle of division of power. I am serving here the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 21 November 1994, the signature of Act K 6/94. It should be recalled that the relationship between the judicial authority and the other authorities, legislative and executive, must be based on the principle of separation. In turn, the article. 173 sets out the principle of independence, separation of courts and tribunals. The legislator ensured that the judicial authority was separate and independent from the other authorities. Constitution in Article. 176 empowers the legislator to lay down the rules for the election of candidates for both the first President of the Supreme Court and the other Presidents, only that this constitutional authorisation is subject to significant restrictions. In its judgment of 3 December 2015, K 34/15 and in its judgment of 7 November 2016, K 44/ 16, the Constitutional Tribunal stressed that although the legislator included the President of the Republic of Poland, who is the executive authority, in the sphere of the organisation of the judicial authority, the scope of the President's activity should be interpreted rather narrowly here. There's no way to fail to recall the article, either. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, The assessment of doctrine does not give rise to the recognition that the powers of the President mentioned in the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the In its judgment of 23 March 2006, the Constitutional Tribunal stated that Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No Consequently, the regulation on the basis of which the President may entrust the President of the Supreme Court with the duties of the President of the Supreme Court in the absence of a candidate by the Assembly of Judges of the Chamber of Supreme Court is questionable constitutionally and constitutes an excessive interference with the organisational autonomy of the Supreme Court. The design design adopted by the designer assumes that the rules governing the election of the first President of the Supreme Court apply accordingly. Appropriate application of Article. 13a §1, i.e. the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court, also raises doubts, because, first, there is no jurisdictional provision, i.e. one which would authorise the President of the Republic of Poland to delegate the duties of President, secondly, it is not known whether, in the light of the proposed amendment, the President appoints a Judge of the Supreme Court from among the judges of the Chamber, namely the one whose President is to direct the work, or from all the judges of the Supreme Court, as Article. 13a §1 shall apply mutatis mutandis and shall refer to each Supreme Court Judge. It can therefore be imagined that the President will elect a judge from the Disciplinary Chamber to temporarily direct the Civil Chamber. Nor can it be determined whether the President's delegation of office to the President of the Supreme Court is temporary or whether it is a target solution, de facto replacing the election of the President. If, in turn, the Supreme Court Judge entrusted with the duties of the President of the Supreme Court is to convene a meeting of the Supreme Court Chamber judges under Article. 13a §2 in order to elect a candidate for the position of President of the Chamber concerned, is a question which quorum is needed at the time. It should also be noted that, at the stage of work in the Parliamentary Committee, provisions were introduced in the draft which go beyond the scope of the draft, Article. 1 points 2 and 8, which infringes Article. Article 119 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution, according to which the Sejm recognizes the project in 3 readings, but this concerns the same project, in the same matter. At the same time, it should be stressed that, in the first case, this provision has been formulated imprecisely and the President's statutory mandate to determine the rules of accommodation, the allowance for separation and travel costs is of a blank nature, which violates Article. 92. 1 Constitution, which expressly provides how regulations are issued On the basis of a detailed mandate in the Act, I stress, in detail. The change introduced in point 8 cannot be done for other reasons. Art. 132 laws constituting a deadline for the publication of judgments, together with the justifications of the Supreme Court in the Public Information Bulletin, cannot be amended, for a simple reason: this provision does not exist. This provision was to be implemented within 2 years from the date of entry into force of the Law, i.e. until 3 April 2020. At this point, this recipe has only historical value, so it cannot be modified. Another point that needs to be underlined is the addition of an article. 96a, which defines the manner in which judicial files are created, made available, archived and destroyed in cases recognised by the Supreme Court. This provision provides for the creation of an act of the Supreme Court only in paper form, but the processing of those acts is to be done using the electronic system. This is therefore inconsistent. If the processing of files is to be done electronically, then these files must be created electronically. All the terms used in this article are inconsistent, there are several references to acts, but the terminology is different, once they are said to be a act, once a judicial act, once a case act. This kind of thing can't happen in a project like this either. Finally, in my opinion, the most important provision, as it were, introduced in this law, namely Article. 83 §3. Art. 83 The Law on the Supreme Court sets out the rules for the allocation of cases, the order for the examination of cases and the designation of formations in the event of discrepancies in the interpretation of the law and the submission of a request to the Supreme Court for the resolution of a legal issue of doubt. This is the creation of the so-called. the lines of case law. All judges know that, in cases of doubt, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court of 7 judges, either in the composition of the entire Chamber or of the Joint Chambers, shall determine how the courts are to interpret the provision in question. In fact, although, of course, there is no precedent law in Poland, everyone knows that it binds the courts, because if the courts do not comply with these rules, their judgments are later repealed. Such a request may be made to the Supreme Court by the Prosecutor General, the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, the Ombudsman of the Patient Rights, the President of the Council of Social Dialogue, the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman of small and medium-sized enterprises. The Act introduces the provision of Article. 80 §3, according to which, if such an application is submitted by the first President of the Supreme Court or by any of those entities which I have previously mentioned, the duties and powers of the President of the Chamber concerned shall be exercised by the first President of the Supreme Court. That is, the assignment of cases, the appointment of the formation of the court and the order in which the case is dealt with, because in exceptional circumstances the case can be dealt with outside the order of... Those prerogatives shall be taken away from the President of the Chamber in which the case is to be dealt with and shall be conferred on the first President of the Supreme Court. You can imagine that in the light of the judgments of the general courts concerning e.g. penalties for infringements of restrictions for traders And we know what the content of these judgments is. Indemnities, damages, any damages, claims against the State Treasury or acquittals of persons who exercise constitutional rights, such as those of the competent authorities. The Attorney General will ask the Supreme Court to settle legal issues. And then the first president of the Supreme Court will determine who, when and what case he will decide. Consequently, the first President of the Supreme Court will be able to influence the direction of interpretation of the law and to influence the line of case law. To sum up, under the pretext of extending the deadline for bringing an emergency complaint to society, as we have shown, the unsubstantiated law introduces fundamental changes which involve the election of the Presidents of the Supreme Court Chambers, introducing the possibility of choosing these Presidents by a minority of the assemblies of the Chamber concerned, they provide for the President to be entrusted with the duties of President of the Supreme Court, it is not known from the Chamber concerned, for what time. They also introduce a provision that allows the case-law of the Supreme Court to be influenced on a case-by-case basis: civil, criminal, labour law matters. The committee therefore decided as I said at the outset. There is a rule that extends the deadline for an emergency complaint by another 3 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u49	Thank you, Senator. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you, too.]] At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Tyszkiewicz, remotely. I have a question too. Senator Tyszkiewicz, please. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, remotely. [[I'm here. Mr. Marshal, High Senate...]] Senator, we can see you, but we can't hear you. [[Why? Everything's right...]] All right, now we hear it. [[You can hear it now, can't you?]] We can't see you now, but we can hear you. But that's enough. Mr. Senator, we're waiting for a question. Right now, we can neither see nor hear you. [[Voice from the room: Apparently you can't have everything.]] [[Better is the enemy of good.]] Mr. Marshal, don't comment because you're disturbing... We can't see or hear Senator Tyszkiewicz. Well, maybe I'll ask the question. Mrs. Marshal, I'm going to ask you because I want to be clear: this bill that we are considering right now is not the bill that the Senate passed and addressed to the Sejm. This is, you can say, a completely different bill, which coincides in the passage with this recipe that we in the Senate amended, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u50	That's right, Mr. Marshal. This law is in line with the law which the Senate passed at its meeting in February, as regards one provision, extending the time limit for an emergency complaint. And as I have pointed out, this project was submitted by the President in the Seym the day after the Senate project appeared.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u51	Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. We have no contact with the senator. Senator Lover is the one asking the question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. From the statements made by the rapporteur's senator's report, please confirm or deny whether my conclusion is correct That the pretext for introducing solutions to the proceedings of the Sejm and the Senate according to which de facto the President of the Supreme Court decides on a judicial line in certain cases became a senate project in which Senator Lydia Staroń, and the Senate, behind it, proposes an extension of the period during which a constitutional complaint may be brought. So it was an excuse to make such changes, according to which, as I say, the President of the Supreme Court will decide on the line of trial with the exception of 7 judges or the entire chambers, or the entire Supreme Court body deciding on the line of inquiry in certain cases. In fact, the President will have an impact on the selection of judges who are vice-presidents of each Chamber. It was an excuse we provided. Is that how I can read these intentions?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator, The pretext was certainly the issue of an emergency complaint. And this is the first president of the Supreme Court. 'Cause that's the difference. The first President of the Supreme Court is the person who directs the entire Supreme Court, and the individual chambers of the Presidents, and that is the decision... the first President of the Supreme Court will decide which judges will be in this seven or in some other composition. It's just, if he wants to, he's gonna choose the judges who decide the case. [[I'm sorry, which means he's actually gonna decide on the trial line.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u54	Thank you very much. Are there any other questions? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! I have two questions about those criticisms you have expressed here. There's an old rule of law, that to anyone who's allowed more, less. Explain to me if you can deny it. If the appointment of the first President of the Supreme Court, i.e. a person with greater authority, is a more significant, far-reaching act, with greater consequences than the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court, the President of the Chamber. If constitutionally possible It should be possible for the President of the Chamber to appoint the first President of the Supreme Court. Why am I talking about possibilities? That's question two. Well, this scenario with the appointment of the Presidents of the Chambers starts when the Chambers themselves are unable to elect the Presidents, i.e. they simply break the quorum, they are unable to meet in 2/3 of their composition, in 1/2 of their composition, or even in 1/3. I remind you that 1/3 of the membership is the quorum of the Senate committees. Such quorum is one of the lowest possible. It can be said that if there is such a low quorum, which still entitles the actions which constitute in this case, i.e. the choice of the Presidents of Chambers legally, the failure to comply with this quorum is simply a manifestation of bad will, at least for me. I don't know how big cataclysms would have to be so you can't meet in a third of the squad. In conclusion, I will ask whether it is not so that the powers which are conferred on this amendment in respect of the Presidents of the Supreme Court Chambers enter into force when individual chambers fail to fulfil their duties... And in my opinion, they're doing it in a biased way, because it's not possible, I would say, so big a case that more than 2/3 of a given chamber can't meet and choose its president. In fact, this right is in a sense of rescue, because the Supreme Court must act. But it is not the Supreme Court here that is the navel of the world, the navel of the world is the citizen to whom the Supreme Court is to serve, just as any other court, like any other state body.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u56	Thank you very much, Senator, for these two questions. In order to answer that question, I would have to recall the history of the election of the first president of the Supreme Court. And the senator made me do it. Since 2017, since December there have been attempts to remove a significant number of Supreme Court judges from office on the pretext of their retirement due to the decrease in the age of transition to that state. This procedure failed and under the pressure of the TSUE we had to withdraw from it by means of another law. This first law was dated 8 December 2017 and another from 21 November 2018. The purpose of this procedure was, in addition to removing the judges, to terminate the first term of office of the Supreme Court President, Professor Margaret Gersdorf. The President's Chancellery, the same president, was then sent letters to the first President of the Supreme Court informing her that she had retired even though the President had not issued any official decision. Minister Mucha at the press conference in July 2018 said that the President is no longer the President. President Andrzej Duda, in a letter dated 4 July 2018, informed you of the date of retirement of the first President of the Supreme Court, thereby violating the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Constitutions. Then Minister Wójcik, at the press conference, also felt that Ms Margaret Gersdorf was no longer the first president of the Supreme Court. The TSUE stated in its judgment 192/18 of 5 November 2019 that Poland had thus failed to fulfil its obligations of a Member State. The next action against the Supreme Court after the end of the full term of Margaret Gersdorf was a law just dated 20 December 2019 which I have already called here. Then it was possible to appoint such a person, such as the Commissioner's Judge, who would present a candidate for President to the President. There was a general assembly of Supreme Court judges. Then Mrs. Małgorzata Manowska, the current First President of the Supreme Court, and Judge Wróbel ran. Judge Sparrow got twice as many votes, but the president chose Mrs. Manovska. What is characteristic, then several assemblies were convened, but individual, subsequent judges Mr. Zaradkiewicz was there, there were other judges who interrupted these assemblies, did not accept the agenda, did everything to prevent this election from being made. Therefore, it can be presumed that this can happen again. It is not known who will be the person elected by the President who will really ensure that the President is pointed out to the appropriate candidates. Regardless of the outcome of the vote at the assembly, the President will make his choice. It's the same, Mr. Senator. I'll try to explain. It was as if the Senate Marshal was chosen here in this way. Our assembly would vote for 2, 3 or 4 candidates. One candidate would get e.g. 51 votes, two votes, two votes, two votes, three votes, 15 votes, and the president would have decided that he who received 20 votes would be a marshal. About this way the election is made at this point... the first president has been elected. That's how I saw it, and that's how I understand it. In fact, if the assembly were to decide on the election of the first President of the Supreme Court and this largest number of votes would determine that this candidate would be the President, then the first President of the Supreme Court would be Judge Włodzimierz Sparrow. And that's the first line. The next point is that the election of the first President of the Supreme Court in such a way... that the selection procedure had constitutional defects we talked about, but was carried out in violation of the Constitution, but that does not mean that the Presidents of each Chamber are to be elected in the same way. Because the situation is that, of course, the reason for this change, as Senator Magdalena Kochan rightly pointed out, is the extension of the deadline for lodging an emergency complaint, but the fact is that this year the term of office of two chambers is over. And that's why these rules are being made. Therefore, it is not such a question that it is the judges who are obstructing, but that is the question that the people who are appointed by the President have conducted these deliberations of the assembly... It is like the judge, the interim president of Kamil Zaradkiewicz, who did not accept the agenda, did not adopt the rules of procedure, changed the result of the vote concerning the composition of the committee, which was to count the votes, and resigned from office. Then Mr. Aleksander Stępkowski maintained these flawed procedures, although also the lawyers, and the judges warned that the election of the new president might be undermined. He didn't check it out, he didn't repeat the procedure for the selection of the repentant commission, he didn't agree that the candidates for the president of the Supreme Court would present the president of the assembly. And that's what the judges wanted, and they referred to the constitution in the article. 183 says this assembly presents the candidacy to the president. Therefore, after these perturbations, which were not created by judges, they created persons who were the interim president, because they created obstruction, it is to be expected that a very similar situation can be presently. It's not enough, for example. It will be so that, on the basis of the judgment of the TSUE of 2 March of this year, the Supreme Court will challenge the status of newly elected judges as judges of the Supreme Court, it can actually come to a very acute dispute and then this judge of the powers of the President will act for six months, one year, two years, it is not known how long, because these provisions do not specify it. That's what this is about. So that as far as the quorum is concerned, it cannot be so, Mr. Senator, that 10 judges will be elected president. And there is another question: the meaning of these provisions would have to be assessed by linking them to the article. 35 §2 of the Law on the Supreme Court, which states that the judge, with his consent, may be transferred by the first President to a position in another Chamber. In this way, the composition of the chambers can also be changed. And we already know that 28 members of the Civil Chamber 7 are appointed directly by the new KRS, 3 are transferred from the Chamber of Extraordinary and Public Affairs and the Disciplinary Chamber, i.e. there are already 10 new members, and in a situation where there are 28 judges in the Chamber, they constitute a quorum which may be elected by the President of the Chamber. The point is not to duplicate unconstitutional patterns of choice that have already been applied, but to elect the Presidents of Chambers, because this is about our citizens, it is about concrete matters. Of course, the First President of the Supreme Court has other competences, greater powers, he is watching over the whole. The Presidents of each Chamber shall deal with matters of substance, i.e. the case law of the Chamber concerned in the field of law. If the organization is under the supervision of the President, who is elected in a very questionable way, then now repeating this, transferring it to the level of chambers where there are people who may be in the same way... We're supposed to prevent it, make sure they're not chosen in the same way. These people will also decide about the juror lineage, and also about... because this competence to set up warehouses is completely independent of it. It's independent of these choices. So we're also giving a new instrument to the first President of the Supreme Court, who, as you know, was elected by the President. Well, the president wanted a president like that. That's how delicately I can describe it. At this point, the system of supervision of the judiciary is closed in Poland. This bill, this little bill, is closing this system. There will no longer be an independent Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u57	Thank you, Senator. [[Just one question.]] No, now Mr. Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz, who applied earlier. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u58	Do we hear each other? [[Yes.]] [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Yes.]] Now we hear each other. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the senator has already answered my questions. Well, I couldn't get through before. However, I would like to ask, as a matter of fact, whether the law that has passed through the Sejm and over which we are proceeding today is in line with the Constitution. It's a simple question. 'Cause I know a lot of legal opinions that say it's against the constitution, which, by the way, your marshal also wrote. Simple question, simple answer. Is the bill that we are discussing today compatible with the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u59	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! This law is incompatible with the Constitution. He's violating the article. 2nd Constitution, Art. 7 Constitution, Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u61	Thank you. Senator Lover.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u62	Thank you very much. I would just like to ask you if you know the consequences of Judge Sparrow, who has won the highest number of votes among the Supreme Court judges, as a counter-chancellor of the current Supreme Court President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u63	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u64	Senator, the media are reporting these consequences, and it's very sad. Well, what am I supposed to say from that bleacher? This is not related to the matter of this law, but we know perfectly well what the consequences are of judges who do not act as the legislative and executive authorities, mostly executives, wish.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u65	Thank you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal, I had this friend in high school. As you told him about the meaning of the reading, or at least mention the main characters, he started with the historical drawing, he ended up with five. I asked you two very simple questions. Since the President of the Republic has competence competence, i.e. law, and obligation In order to appoint the first President of the Supreme Court, should he not also be able to appoint the Presidents of the Supreme Court, the Presidents of the Chambers? And second question. After all, this amendment does not change the whole text. She is merely saying what will happen if one of the chambers fails to exercise its competence and, despite a very low quorum of 1/3 of the Members of the Chamber, does not elect candidates for the President of the Chamber. In particular, I would like to point out that the article is not being amended. 15 §2, which says: President of the Supreme Court In other words, the President of the Chamber is appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland, after consulting the First President of the Supreme Court, for a three-year term of office of among the three candidates elected by the Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Court. I'll skip the rest of the recipe. That hasn't changed. You've been breaking through a door that's long since been open. Again, the design of this... I'm sorry, it's already a bill. This bill is meant to be in an emergency, in case any of the chambers are obstructed... I hope it won't be, but in case it is, and if, with a very low turnout, 1/3, they couldn't identify the candidates for president of the Chamber... It's just for that. All this shamfage, and in particular the ex-cathedral claim that something is constitutional and something isn't... If those laws concerning the election of the first President of the Supreme Court which functioned are non-constitutional, then why didn't you challenge them to the only authority that could determine... [[Because he's not here.]] ...to the Constitutional Court? [[Because he's not here.]] Your fairy tales you're telling here from this lecturer... [[Because there is no Constitutional Court.]] ...that something is constitutional or not, have no legal significance. Fairy tales for the broken. [[That's not true.]] [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: May I respond?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u67	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u68	I answer your question very briefly. Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing I point 20: Appointment of the first President of the Supreme Court. There's nothing about the other CEOs. Mr. Senator, you're a mathematician, so I understand that you might be logical to... [[But it's already in the bill! I was just quoting it.]] But I'm talking about the constitution, Mr... [[Is it you or isn't it?]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But, Lord... Will you let me finish the senator? [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: What language is this?]] [[What's this?]] From a mathematical point of view, it might be logical, but from a constitutional point of view it is not. The president can do that. And that's it. And he can't do it anymore. That's the first line. Second line. The answer to your second question is no. I don't think it's just tidying up. Yes, I believe that it will be possible to influence the election of the Presidents of the Chambers in an unconstitutional way. And as for the Constitutional Tribunal, I'll tell the senator that it's not true... This is an opinion promoted for several years, but it is not true that only the Constitutional Tribunal has the right to judge constitutionality. No. Every judge, every official, has the right to judge constitutionality, and the Constitutional Tribunal is to eliminate non-constitutional acts from the legal order. There are a lot of lawyers on this subject, it's about so-called. distributed constitutional control. If it weren't, the judges couldn't really pass many judgments that have been passed in recent years, well, many years, more than 20, 30, because in many situations, judges, having this power, were based on the constitution. And the truth has been told by Senator Kochan: we do not have a properly elected Constitutional Court, therefore, Senator... I, too, regret this, but the complaint made by this Sejm has the same effect as we saw last year. The Court's decision on the applications submitted by the State formation has the same effect as in the case of a judgment Well, it's judgment, it's judgment, I don't know what it is. . 22 October n.e.b.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u69	Thank you very much. There are no more questions, Senator. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. This bill was introduced by the President. The Secretary of State of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, Ms Małgorzata Paprock, was authorised to represent the President's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Paprocka like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the President's position? [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: Yes, Mr Marshal.]] You're welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present to the High Senate a bill amending the Law on the Supreme Court adopted on the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda. In the course of yesterday's work by the joint Senate committees, there was certainly a question of extending the deadline for bringing an emergency complaint beyond debating issues. At this point, I would like to thank Senator Lydia Staron for the amendment extending the period during which an emergency complaint can be lodged by the Ombudsman and the Attorney General from 2 to 3 years old. To the rest, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions recommend deleting the remaining points of the amendment, although there has been no in-depth substantive discussion in this respect. I had no opportunity to comment on the comments made by Professor Mark Chmaj or on the comments made by the Legislative Bureau. Therefore, it will allow the High Senate to do so very briefly right now. If you follow the systematics of the law, then the first amendment involves an article. 15 Supreme Court Act on the election of candidates for the position of Supreme Court President. The Constitution creates cooperation between the President and the Supreme Court in the election of both the first President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Supreme Court, this is the prerogative of the President. But the constitution clearly indicates that the President, the President of the Republic of Poland, appoints persons to these two positions from among the candidates presented by the Supreme Court, is used plural, so the President of the Republic of Poland has the full freedom to choose from the candidates presented by the appropriate grammar. Therefore, the statement that only one candidate can be chosen is absolutely not covered by constitutional rules. Now, back to the substance of the bill, I'd like to say that today it's just resounding. And thank you very much to Senator Czerwinski. A certain systematics and logic of the Supreme Court Act. The first and fundamental procedure for selecting candidates for both the first President of the Supreme Court and the Presidents of the Supreme Court shall be the procedure provided for in Article. 12, that is to say, by the first President of the Supreme Court or the President of the Supreme Court of the Assembly respectively. Either the general assembly or the assembly of the chamber. If these conventions are properly convened, none of the mechanisms introduced by the law will ever be applicable. The best example of this is correct, precisely in the Article. 12, convening a meeting in the Criminal Chamber and selecting candidates. Last year, the President of the Criminal Chamber was appointed by means of an article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. In the event that there is no selection of candidates under Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, Mr President, in his initiative, proposes some kind of security mechanism. Mr. Senator Czerwiński used the term "rescue." Yeah, that's what this is about. And your marshal, remembering the general assembly on the election of the first president of the Supreme Court, didn't mention one important thing. The General Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Court has not been convened in accordance with Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. It was therefore necessary to run the whole procedure. The assembly was not convened six weeks before the end of the term of office of President Gersdorf. The Act introduces 2 security mechanisms. The first is to reduce the quorum accordingly, to resign from a very high quorum 2/3 of the members. There is a proposal for a quorum of 1/2 and 1/3. But, High Senate, it's always up to the judges. This was the case with the Criminal Chamber, I mentioned this situation. If judges come to a meeting convened six weeks before the end of their term of office, they shall vote on what they are entitled to do. Then it comes to the election of candidates and they are presented to the president. And here in no way the basic design is changed. The second safeguard mechanism shall be the reference to Article. 13a §1 of the Supreme Court Act, when the President, but only after these 3 steps, will be able to entrust the performance of the duties of Supreme Court President to the Supreme Court. The relevant competence standard is set out in the proposed Article. 15 §4. In addition, there is a reference to Article. 13a §2 because there are specified deadlines for the judge to whom the President entrusts his duty at the convening of the assembly. This is precisely planned in such a way that these candidates can be selected as soon as possible. It is also worth noting in this context Article. Article 126 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution, which provides that the President shall perform the duties laid down by the Constitution and by the Act. Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No It is important to stress that, as I mentioned, the President will, in the fourth step, entrust the performance of the duties of President of the Supreme Court to an active Supreme Court judge. There is no interference of the President of the Republic of Poland in the judicial activity. The President of the Supreme Court has a very important role to play in ensuring the proper operation of the Supreme Court, but it should be noted that these are duties related to the organisation of the Chamber's work. These are functions, as I say, very important, but of an administrative or executive nature. These duties are catalogued, among others. Paragraph 15 of the Rules of Procedure. I move on to the second point, which also raises doubts about the revision of the article. 83 of the Supreme Court Act and the transfer of certain powers to the gesture of the first Supreme Court President with today's responsibility of the Supreme Court President. In no way can this be associated with the formation of any judicial line. These are the powers to indicate the composition, possibly to determine the order in which cases are to be dealt with, but clearly the form of the decision is decided by the formation of the court. Moreover, in the case of the so-called. abstract resolutions very often go beyond the composition of 7 judges, i.e. the shape of the formation of the judge is directly from the law, because if we are talking about the composition of the entire Chamber of the Supreme Court, then they are judges in this Chamber, there is no indication of specific judges. Analogical situation is when the case is recognised in the joint chambers of the Supreme Court or in full court. It should also be noted that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Court, which have been in force for many years, already entitle the first President of the Supreme Court to refer rapporteurs to such cases. Given the political position of the first President of the Supreme Court, the fact that these cases often go beyond recognition in one Chamber seems to be the first President of the Supreme Court who should be predisposed to such decisions. In some ways, the proposal of the joint committees to delete the added article is also incomprehensible. 96a of the Act, which bridges a certain obvious regulatory gap in this area, which has existed for many years. This provision concerns a technical, organisational matter, namely the creation of a case file in the Supreme Court. This decision should be considered even more unjustified if we take into account the wording of the proposed article. 96a §3, which at the same time prejudges the making available of the file to the parties and participants of the proceedings together with the right to review the file, receive copies, copies and extracts. Today, the Supreme Court Act does not provide for this kind of regulation. For this provision, comments were made by the Legislative Bureau. However, it is difficult to argue for the deletion of the entire provision to accept the allegation of its incorrect inclusion in the systematics of the law, especially since the practice of other laws is differentiated in this respect, in particular the law on the system of common courts of this type contains provisions concerning general acts, actions of the court. Indeed, in the law on proceedings before administrative courts, such a provision is provided for in Article. 12a, in the initial part of the bill. But, as I'm pointing out, there's a variety of systems. This could probably be discussed. Also terminology... [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u71	Minister, if you'll excuse me, we should take a break at this point because we have a resolution on Bydgoszcz on the agenda, and we have an honorary guest, a bachelor of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland, Senator Rulewski. [[Secretary of State at President Margaret Paprock's Chancellery: You're welcome.]] So that we continue... It's a special resolution, I think... [[Secretary of State at President Margaret Paprock's Chancellery: Mr. Marshal, of course...]] ...we'll have about half an hour. Excuse me, ma'am, and I encourage you to take part in this nice event. And then we'll go back to proceding. We therefore begin to consider item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of March events in Bydgoszcz. I would like to welcome you very cordially present at the meeting of the participant of those events, the senator of the multiple term of office, Senator Jan Rulewski. [[Applause]] I would remind you that the draft resolution was tabled by a group of senators and is included in print No 352, and the committee's report In print No 352 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Halina Poora, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, It is undoubtedly an honor for me to present the report of the committee, which positively and unanimously gave its opinion on the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of March events in Bydgoszcz. I may simply say that these events, due to their importance and unprecedented importance to the history of our country, also affected the procession itself, because initially there were 2 resolutions, one tabled by Mr Richard Bober and one tabled by Mr Antoni Mężydł. But thanks to the kindness and consultation with Senator Jan Rulewski, we managed to create one. I hope that, like the committee, so also the Senate of the Republic will unanimously adopt a resolution. I would also like to thank all the senators who have kindly paid attention. At the committee meeting, we were able to come up with one text. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, please take this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u73	At present, senators may request the rapporteur of the committee and the authorised representative of the applicants for a maximum period of one minute. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, second Senator Chudowska, came forward first. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I'd like to ask the senator to give you a closer look at the committee meeting. Because there was an interesting discussion about the universality of all the events that took place at the time. There was a controversy between Senator Klich and some of the participants in this discussion. Did this really have such a universal character? Was there a dispute, well, a discussion about it? As if the senator would like to bring this part of the debate closer to the House... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u75	Coming right up. It was indeed a question of whether the warning strike that had been taken was indeed a general strike or not. The discussion concerned, I think, 2 ways of understanding the word "common." On the one hand, a general strike is a very numerous strike, one in which almost everyone or everyone took part, but on the other hand, the word "common strike" means that its idea was adopted by a large majority of society. We've come to an agreement, a consensus, a consensus. - Whatever the senator wants to say. It was, however, a general strike. The fact that not everyone took part in it in a strict way Physically, it was also due to the manipulation of the regime's television, the regime's media, which, as you know, discredited participants of events in Bydgoszcz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u76	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Chudowska a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u77	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. If you don't mind... I don't have a question, but a request. I'd like the senator to read the text of the draft resolution. [[Okay, I'll read it right away. I just need to get my glasses.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u78	If you don't mind, I'll do it as your replacement. Since I'm a fan of Senator Rulewski's, it would be my pleasure. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 25 March 2021 on the 40th anniversary of March events in Bydgoszcz. Forty years ago in Bydgoszcz, during the session of the Provincial National Council on 19 March 1981, there was an attack of militia on invited representatives of the Bydgoszcz Inter-Bodgian Founding Committee of the National Council. Among them were representatives of the NSZZ Founding Committee, which was not recognised by the communist authorities.Solidarity of Individual Farmers. After the brutal action of the citizen's militia, especially the severe beating of Michał Bartoszcze, Mariusz Łabentowicz and Jan Rulewski, the Bydgoszcz events quickly took on the national dimension, and discrediting action was taken against the beaten. The Polish society, repeatedly experienced in recent years by food crises, has stood up for trade union activists, beaten by Communist regime officers. This was reflected in the warning strike, the biggest in post-war history of Poland. The purpose of the protests at that time was to draw the attention of the communist authorities to the problem of feeding the nation. At the time, food cards were introduced for meat, which was the final proof of the bankruptcy of economic policy, including agricultural, government of the Polish People's Republic. This policy, using various methods of collecting agriculture, caused that agricultural Poland was a great importer of food. Farmers in Poland, with the support of the NSZZ and the Catholic Church, said that they were satisfied with this degradation and in the whole country demanded the guarantee of the authentic ownership of the family farm and the preservation of the tradition and culture of the Polish village. Forty years after the memorable events of the Bydgoszcz on March, the Senate of the Republic of Poland, recognizing the contemporary attitude of universal, unprecedented resistance against communist power, pays tribute and expresses gratitude to all its participants. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. This is the content of the proposed resolution. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Are there any more questions?]] There are no more questions. I'm opening a discussion. [[Voice from the room: Jackowski.]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: Jackowski.]] [[Voice from the room: And potato.]] Mr. Senator Jackowski. Is Senator Potato reporting, too? [[Yes.]] Good. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Dear Jan Rulewski! Everyone who's listening to us right now! I would like to begin by thanking the initiators of this resolution very warmly, because in the crowd of various anniversaries this matter may have escaped public attention, and for this period called the Carnival of Solidarity, 16 months between August 1980 and December 1981, it was of fundamental importance. It may be worth recalling a few more facts, which could not necessarily be included in this resolution, because it is a solemn document, expressing more intentions, this is not, of course, a historical trial. It is worth mentioning that for this session on March 19, at which the deputy prime minister of the Peerellian government, Mr Stanisław Mach, was present, the trade unionists who were promised the opportunity to speak were invited. It's very worth emphasising. And in the composition of this delegation, except those already mentioned, but I will remind them, so besides Jan Rulewski, who is here in the Chamber, and from the farmers Michał Bartoszcze, Marek Gawinecki, Marek Klonecki, Edmund Marciniak and Tadeusz Szymanczak, there were also representatives of the workers' solidarity. I'm not gonna name all their names right now. What is important is that the delegation was promised the opportunity to speak, but the session was closed without it and the activists were to demand the registration of agricultural solidarity. The councilmen began to move into their homes, and the invited unionists protested loudly, and announced that they would remain in the session hall of the regional office and threatened to start an occupation strike in it. For the authorities, this was an uncomfortable situation, because for 3 days in Bydgoszcz farmers had conducted a similar strike at the premises of the United People's Party at 87 Dworcowa Street. In addition, before the building, trade unionists were called here to strengthen the negotiating position of their colleagues present at the session of the voivodship national council with their presence. I don't know if that's gonna happen, Mr. Marshal, but I hope Senator Rulewski will take the floor, too, and perhaps I... [[Of course, traditionally, after the resolution has been passed, the senator will perform.]] I think drama... I will not serve a witness directly to these events and a hero of these events in the description of what was happening. I would like to refer here to the broader background of these events. In protest of what happened in Bydgoszcz, local trade unionists conducted a 2-hour protest strike in the Bydgoszcz region on 20 March. On 23 and 24 March, a meeting was held in Bydgoszcz with the NSZZ national authorities. During the turbulent discussions that took place at that time, as there was a dispute within the Socialist Party on a strategy against the communist authorities, it was decided that a four-hour warning strike would take place on 27 March, and if it did not bring tangible benefits, a general strike would be announced on 31 March. In fact, the warning strike of March 27 took over the whole country. It is estimated that 62% were involved. all employees of the first shift, though e.g. in Bydgoszcz this percentage was much higher and reached as high as 87%. They've been hitting workplaces, offices, schools, universities. It was, as historians write, the biggest strike in the 1980s. I quote this fact because at the committee meeting there was a discussion that it was not of a general nature. This was the universal one, although the then regime media of course presented the Bydgoszcz events as an example of adventure, and the one present in the hall of Senator Jan Rulewski was presented as a person who disrupts the order and functioning of the Polish state. The protest showed the authorities the scale of public support for the Solidarity. It was also a strong support for those negotiating with the union authorities who had been meeting with the most important people in the country from the very beginning. It is worth mentioning that on March 26, 1981, two months before his death on cancer, he met with the Primate Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński. Then Wojciech Jaruzelski declared that there would be registration of the trade union of individual farmers. But of course that wouldn't have happened if it hadn't been for the wave of events that happened. Finally, the general strike did not happen, but it is worth mentioning the drama of these events. In parallel, the troops of the Warsaw Pact were maneuversed. Those who remember the drama of those events are well aware that such maneuvers on this scale of tension can mean not only military maneuvers, but something completely different. Me too. Forgive your personal reflection. As a photojournalist of the weekly "Solidarity," which the weekly could not appear, and was created by August agreements and due to events, the Bydgoszcz edition of this issue was delayed... It wasn't known at all if this weekly was gonna show up. I remember what the atmosphere was back then in the newsroom on the street. Batorego 14, the voltage level was extremely high in this whole case. Finally, the trade union of individual farmers was registered on 12 May. Please note that the Bydgoszcz events, first of all, were a experimental field for the sociotechnic propaganda communist regime, it was a way of presenting the participants of these events, second, it was an overture for the second such a loud event, here I am thinking about the fire school and these famous events in Warsaw on December 3, 1981. Both of these events announced that sooner or later the communist authorities would decide for a forceful trial with this extraordinary national union-solidarity break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u80	Thank you very much, senator. I hope this sociotech fight against political opponents has gone to history forever. Senator Potato. [[The voice from the room:... Kurski uses it.]] [[The voice from the hall: Who's the smart guy?]] [[Voice from the room: But you are...]] [[Voice from the room:... Such a comment out of place.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Janie Rulewski, hero of those days! Not just you, but you're here today on their behalf. I will speak as a participant in those events, although not directly in Bydgoszcz. I was a student of the Academy of Physical Education in Gorzów and I was chairman of the Independent Student Association. When we heard about events in Bydgoszcz, and it was a small university, it was a branch of the Poznań University in Gorzów, we decided that we were organizing a four-hour strike. I confirm, it was a general strike, it was a bottom-up initiative. There was no media then that would tell us what was going on. All we had was information: activists of "Solidarity" were beaten. We, NZS, Independent Student Association as Let's call it Of course, we've joined this action. So that not only did it strike the solidarity, the adults, but also we, the students. We made that decision against the university authorities who didn't really know Especially in the province, if you can say so. That students will protest that there will be a strike. I have to say, it wasn't that easy either. During that strike I was leading, and I was living in a dorm with my wife and child, my wife and daughter I sent home because there was a threat that they would try to break this strike, and I didn't want to jeopardize my family. So that these events in Bydgoszcz were an inspiration for us to show solidarity with you, but also an incentive to act against this system in which we were then. I may not have felt the direct consequences of this, but I felt on myself, let's say, those unpleasant looks for leading this strike. Maybe it worked out for me because when I was in my senior year and I was in my master's class, although I was more busy with the NZS activities at the time than writing my job, I was allowed to do this job in a dirty paper. It was just about me putting this job together and getting potato out of college. Well, yes, I was seen for the fact that the strike was in Gorzów and that many actions... Later, we brought John Józef Lipski to Gorzow. These were events in a small university, and they were inspired by them, among others. These Bydgoszcz events. So that, John and all of you who have experienced violence in Bydgoszcz, I bow to you. We've been trying to support you, and you've been trying to support us. I'm a witness to this. You've given us an impulse to act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u82	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Chróścikowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Hey, buddy John! I am very pleased that the initiators of this resolution, who prepared the draft, and the committee which approved it, adopting a single text, express their thanks to all those who had the courage to take such measures in 1980, 1981, thanks to which today we can say that we live in free Poland, democratically, we can feel real citizens and have an influence on what is happening. We didn't have one then. We as the Solidarity of Individual Farmers are very grateful, as I call it. It's what I always do. "Solidarity." Thank you, because you have supported us in Rzeszów, as part of the Strzycko-rzeszowski Agreement... Not long ago, we adopted a resolution on this matter, which showed that workers' solidarity supports agricultural solidarity. The Bydgoszcz events were an element that... As it has been said here, the 16th occupation of the ZSL headquarters by farmers demanding registration of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers took place. And among others. This strike of yours was the reason that the demands they wanted to make were... It was like putting a brick in. On behalf of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers, I thank the Solidarity of Workers and all those who had the courage to support the Solidarity of Individual Farmers. Thanks to you and the Church, as it was said here, Primate Wyszyński finally managed to register, after the agreements signed in Bydgoszcz, because there the agreements were signed... May 12th... Again, words of appreciation and thanks to all who have prepared this resolution, as well as those who had the courage to stand beside us. We name those who were involved, but let's remember that some of them died after that, and they died tragically. To this day, we remember Bartoszcz, who under unknown circumstances... Well, the IPN investigation proves he was murdered after all. So that the words of appreciation and thanks to you on behalf of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers, as well as my own. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u84	Thank you very much, senator. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of March events in Bydgoszcz. Who among the senators is in favour of this project? Please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's working, Senator. Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 40th anniversary of March events in Bydgoszcz. I'll ask Senator Jan Rulewski to approach the president's table. I'd like to give you a resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is said that, as Rulewski is in the Senate, he must speak, but I assure you that this hospitality, this support of the marshal, I do not intend to abuse, because I am aware that this discussion preceded the discussion, that I participate in it among my own, among the participants of that strike, and if they did not participate in it, today, even in this modest discussion, they have expressed such a remote participation. The resolution in its final part emphasizes the unprecedentedness and universality of resistance against communist power. And it was no different. It's not even about numbers anymore. Although they were huge, the largest in the area of protests, because not only the strike, but also the protest against the then totalitarian power. I think that the need for this protest was not due to the locality of the incident, because, as the resolution itself says, protests took place throughout the country. And if it reaches memory by 1956 and Poznań June, to December 70, June 76, it will turn out that there you can look for their ground, including when the workers called out "Bread!" And it wasn't an overstatement. But in 1980 the situation was kind of different and probably more pregnant, because it was in 1980 that the communist authorities, as a result of the vote of distrust, which workers reported throughout Poland, signed an agreement. Thus, our representatives I'm watching them in these benches. They gave credit to these authorities, but on one condition: that they would implement agreements, then more than just Gdańsk, because they were concluded throughout the country. These agreements included exactly what caused the collapse of the authorities in 1956, 1970 and earlier mentioned years. It was under the weight of empty shelves that the price manipulations of these authorities fell. Unfortunately, they left traces of the tanks being shot and run over, and then left behind infiltrated by an army of underground secret services. It seemed that in 1980 this tragic precedent would not be repeated. The authorities under pressure, as a result of the dialogue, signed agreements on behalf of themselves and Poland as a whole. The credit of trust worked until March 1981, or maybe less, actually until February, when the authorities in Ustrzyki and Rzeszów, yes, signed agreements but did not implement them. In Bydgoszcz mostly peasants, mostly peasants, but also us In the name of self-help aid, we helped farmers, peasants, and especially the workers who at that time received expensive allowances, to solve our problems of feeding the nation. And when the situation in previous years threatened to repeat, we felt that we had to be wise before harm, that we had to at least calm the situation down with a card system. But it is known that the card system is not the solution, that this solution could only be to grant the rights of peasants to freedom, to land, to trade, to the market and to represent them. As a result, another agreement was signed under the pressure of this biggest protest in Poland's history. Once again, the communist authorities have received a conditional "I repeat: a conditional "pass to exercise authority." If she used it, everyone would. And those of the "Solidarity" green and red, and ordinary citizens found out in December because, in fact, this power was falsifying from the very beginning. And maybe because the nation never gave her that trust again, today we live in a free country. But the message still remains the same: if you choose power and this power wins, however, provided that it will implement agreements. What did I forget? Oh, I guess I talk too much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u86	Thank you very much, senator. Before returning to the review of the Supreme Court, I declare a recess until 2:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 04 to 14 minutes 07]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u87	I'm reopening the session. I apologise for the delay, but we were looking forward to the arrival of the Minister, to whom there are further questions. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. I would like to continue my speech with the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, Ms Małgorzata Paprocka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u88	Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, but the procedure at the entrance has been a little prolonged. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: We waited patiently, Minister.]] Again, I apologize to the senators very much. We finished before the break to discuss the proposed amendment to the article. 96a, concerning the formation of a case file in the Supreme Court. In fact, there are some recent changes left. During the meeting of the Joint Committees, no doubts were raised, although they are e.g. recommended to delete the amendment to the provisions of Article. 103, 126 and amendment of the annex to the Act in the section on functional additives. The last group of provisions is an amendment to the Article. 53, which is a change in the rules governing the provision of free accommodation in Warsaw and the reimbursement of travel expenses and separation allowance to judges of the Supreme Court, and art. 32 on the extension of the deadline for publication on the Public Information Bulletin website, on the subject of the Supreme Court, of all decisions taken in the Supreme Court. Within these two provisions, the Legislative Office raised doubts as to their compatibility with the Article. 119 constitutions, i.e. the principle of examining the project in 3 readings. Referring to this remark, it should be noted, Your Senate, that, firstly, they fall within the amendment of the Law on the Supreme Court, and secondly, these proposals were added at an early stage of the procession, because during the examination of the project in the Parliamentary Committee after the first reading. In addition, these amendments are clearly technical and adaptable, since today, in the current legal state, rules on the free accommodation of judges are regulated by reference to the 1982 Act on employees of public authorities and regulations issued under it. These are regulations which do not in any way conform to the specific work of judges or to the construction of the Supreme Court itself. Well, judges live actually throughout the country, not only in Warsaw. Some live within a distance which under these regulations does not allow such additional powers to be granted. Therefore, the proposal that this reference should be repealed. In this place, a provision was proposed to regulate this matter by a regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland. By force, neither the assumptions nor the draft regulation were attached to the bill. Well, like I said, this proposal has been amended. The second provision is Article. 132. I am aware of what the Marshal has raised in your attention, which is that the term provided for in this provision has been exemplified. Well, it was a 2-year term. It seems that it is a change that is most legitimate and necessary. Look at the fact that, in fact, all the Supreme Court rulings will be published in the newsletter, first and foremost, by citizens who will gain free access to all the case law of the Supreme Court. Professional plenipotentiaries, lawyers, and administrative staff will benefit from this. Hence, such a proposal to make a certain, one can say, reactivation of this provision. That doubt that the marshal was talking about was discussed during the Senate work. The legislator's comments were made, but ultimately the Senate Legislative Office approved this change. As regards possible non-compliance with Article. 119, this is also a contradiction between the legislative offices of the Sejm and the Senate. Questions were also addressed to the Legal Office of the Sejm. Well, it was asked whether these changes did not go beyond the scope of the submission, but at the stage of the work in the Sejm the opinion of the Legislative Bureau was positive in this regard. So, on behalf of the President, I am asking the High Senate to support this bill. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u89	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representative on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. In the final phrase of her speech, the Minister said something that, from my point of view, is very important, namely trust in legislators. We in the Senate have full confidence in our legislators from the Legislative Office, we really believe in their impartiality and objectivity in assessing the provisions proposed to the Senate. But I'd like to ask the Minister something else. You, working at the office of the President, have the responsibility to supervise the Bureau of Law and Development. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: System.]] The system, I'm sorry. Yes, of course. The problem is that we have listened to the opinion of the constitutionalist, the authority, Professor Mark Chmaj, who spoke about the lack of constitutionality of the proposed records. Moreover, Minister, in this bill, you propose a panacea for a disease that was not previously in the Supreme Court. Well, there was no problem with the election of any president of any chamber until the neo-KRS nominates showed up. My question is this: what legal authorities have consulted your draft law, which in the final form has been sent to the Sejm, and now, as a law, is being prosecuted in the Senate? Who helped you? Who was judging that? Because I can't believe you just created this with your own strength. So I'm asking for a fair answer. If you had a problem with that, I'd have just had a written answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u91	Ms Senator, for preparing legislative initiatives of the President of the Republic, in accordance with the acts governing the activities of the President's Office of the Republic of Poland, i.e. The Senator's office of Law and Government, as indicated by you, is responsible for the statute and organizational regulations. External opinions were not drawn up for the initiative presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. It is an initiative prepared entirely by the firm's forces. I do not know why such a lack of confidence in legislative activity, just the office is preparing initiatives. If consultations are conducted at the preparatory stage, this information is always provided in the justification of the President's draft, also in accordance with the requirements of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u92	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u93	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! A question for the Minister. Based on what, you said that the Legislative Bureau had verified its view of the inadmissibility of the amendment of the article. 132 of the Supreme Court Act in the form of an amendment? Because I have already consulted with the Legislative Office and it maintains its opinion that there can only be a separate legislative initiative in this respect, and the mode of work that took place in the Sejm is the mode, I will say the most delicately, incorrectly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u94	Mr President, I did not refer to the work of the Senate and to the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office. With regard to Article. 132, as well as Article. 53 of the law and the question of the admissibility of the amendment at the stage at which it was introduced at the Sejm meeting was consulted by the Legal Office of the Sejm. In my speech, I'm sorry if that was an imprecisely formulated by me, but I meant that there was some kind of contradiction between the views of the legislative offices. At that stage, at the stage of the Parliament's work, the Sejm held the position of the Legal Office of the Sejm on the admissibility of such amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u95	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u96	Minister, you're a lawyer, and I'm going to ask you a question: do you think that the procedure to proceed with this change in the Seym was the right procedure, and that, to say, didn't violate the principles of correct legislation? Well, let me ask you this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u97	With regard to Article. 132 and 53, right? [[Yes, sir.]] This is certainly, Mr President, the Senate, always debatable, because the admissibility of the amendments has been the subject of the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal on several occasions and this is always examined in a specific situation. Of course, the fundamental principle is the principle of three readings expressed in the article. 119. However, the Court, when assessing the admissibility of amendments, speaks of their depth, their width and their relationship with statutory matter. For the admissibility of these amendments, i.e. concerning Article. 53 and 132, first of all, the fact that we are moving within the Supreme Court Act is not an amendment of any additional law. Secondly, this is, as I said, a fairly early stage of legislative work, which is the examination of the project after first reading in the committee. Thirdly, but it is a technical standard, it does not concern citizens' rights and obligations, but it is linked to some kind of duty of the Supreme Court, the beneficiaries of which are among others. citizens who, as I mentioned, receive free access to the entire Supreme Court trial base. [[I'm not questioning that. I only asked about the formal side, especially since it was a state project, a presidential one.]] Yes, but the amendments were, of course, parliamentary amendments. As I say, there was also a discussion on this subject with the Legislative Office and these arguments, as I recall, were raised at the time, and the Legislative Office of the Sejm was also asked in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u98	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question? No. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: Thank you kindly, Mrs Marshal.]] We have a representative of the government, the Ministry of Justice, Minister Anna Dalkowska. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 25 February this year. The law on amending the Law on the Supreme Court was adopted, which was the result of the implementation of the legislative initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland. Sejm print 935, Senate print 330. As today's meeting and the work of the committee show, the bill is very emotional, which should not be surprising, as it concerns the organisation of the work of the Supreme Court, which is a constitutional body of the state. According to Art. 183 Constitution of the Republic of Poland Supreme Court I'll remind you. It shall exercise oversight over the activities of universal and military courts in the field of judgment. As regards the matter governed by the Act in question, it raises a number of points on which it is essential to change the institution of the emergency complaint in relation to the expiry of 3 April this year. By a three-year deadline concerning the possibility for the Prosecutor-General or the Ombudsman to exercise the power to lodge an emergency complaint, of course in relation to decisions which have been valid for the period from 17 October 1997 to 3 April 2018. The main purpose of this law is to extend the time limit for such an emergency complaint by the entities concerned in relation to those judgments from 3 to 5 years. According to the justification of the Presidential Law, the need to extend this deadline by 2 years is justified by the identified needs in this area, the number of cases, citizens' applications, and, as I draw attention to the situation of the epidemic that has been going on for more than a year. In this respect, both at the procession stage in the Sejm, as well as as as a passed law in the course of work in the High House, did not arouse emotions. As far as the other issues are concerned, I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that they concern matters relating to the organisation of the work and operation of the Supreme Court and, in this context, cannot agree with the claims that this is a fundamental act of systemic importance. I'll explain why there's a government position that I'm representing right now. Namely, the Act deals with matters concerning the selection of candidates, the election of the Presidents of the Supreme Court Chambers. As regards the revision of the article. The 15th Supreme Court Act clarifies certain issues relating to the category of appropriate application of the rules. Namely, in the current wording of the Supreme Court Act, the provision contained in the article. 15 §3 refers to the proper use of the matter regulated by Article. 13 of the same bill. This appropriate use is an obscure category, therefore, as doctrine and case law indicate, it can be seen from a threefold point of view. Appropriate application implies the full application of the regulation to which the provisions refer, but this may be the application with certain exemptions, assuming, of course, the modification of the provisions resulting from the substance of a particular matter. Since this appropriate application now refers to the content of §3 Article. 13, where this graduated quorum has been indicated by certain figures which refer to the entire composition of the Supreme Court, it was necessary to clarify this regulation by specifying a fraction of the same issues. Thus, the number of members and the number of judges of the Supreme Court who are part of the general assembly of the Supreme Court is indicated respectively. These numbers represent a fraction of 1/3, 1/2 and 2/3. A little bit in the wrong order, 2/3, 1/2 and 1/3 respectively... It was necessary to clarify this return to proper application so that the procedure for selecting the President of the Chamber could be specifically applied to the procedure laid down at this moment in the Supreme Court Act for selecting the first President of the Supreme Court. And in this context, this change is clearly clear. She doesn't bring any new value when it comes to the regulation of the Supreme Court Act. The second point I would like to point out is the issue of gradualness already raised here during the proceedings of the High House. The law does not introduce any new model for the election of the President of the Supreme Court Chamber. She assumes or determines such a conditional procedure for the election of the first President in a situation where this choice does not take place under the provisions laid down in that law. So in the first place, And keep that in mind. In order for the President of the Republic of Poland to choose the person who is the President of the Chamber to be appointed, three assemblies must be convened. The first meeting shall be six weeks before the end of the term of office and the quorum shall be 2/3. If there is no such quorum, then this is the second meeting, where the quorum is above 1/2. If that is not the case, this is the third meeting, where the quorum is above 1/3. And only when these three assemblies fail to elect candidates for the Presidents of the Chambers is the President's competence to identify the person who will be in charge. Such a solution guarantees the continuity of the operation of the Supreme Court. Please note that if there was no such regulation as regards the election of the first President of the Supreme Court, we would have had such a situation that there would not have been a constitutional body entitled to represent the Supreme Court at all. And here I would like to correct the fact that was raised earlier. It was not so last year that there were successive assemblies of the Supreme Court, the purpose of which was to appoint the first President, because according to the law such a meeting should be convened six weeks before the end of the term of office by the first President of the Supreme Court. President Małgorzata Gersdorf did not do this, she did not convene the assembly, in accordance with the statutory obligation, six weeks before the end of her term of office. Therefore, there was no other option under the law, only such. The President had to appoint a person whose sole competence was to convene this assembly and to elect the first president. To sum up this element, which I am currently discussing: this law clarifies the solutions, indicating a different way of determining instead of a fraction. This required quorum. Once again, I would like to point out that as many as 3 assemblies are scheduled, depending on how the presence of judges will evolve. And only after these three assemblies will the authority be activated to identify the person performing the duties. I would also like to point out that during this assembly, which was convened to elect the first president As for what happened in May last year The quorum was much larger than 2/3, so there was no situation that the judges did not participate in this assembly. This is one of the basic duties of judges. And of course, this obligation is exercised by judges not only by the Supreme Court, but also by all courts, including universal, military and administrative. Another issue is the changes to the content of the article. 83th Supreme Court Act. These amendments relate to the definition of the rules for determining the composition of judges in the case of so-called. an abstract application which is submitted by the first President of the Supreme Court. Well, I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that, in accordance with the article. 80 to which the proposed provision already adopted refers The President of the Supreme Court shall direct the work of the Chamber concerned. Therefore, at the moment, this competence applies to all the governors of all the five Supreme Court chambers operating. In the case of an abstract application, which application shall be made in accordance with paragraph. Two, he can fold... There are certain authorities in this provision. If such a request comes from the first President of the Supreme Court, then the composition, in fact in accordance with the rules, will be able to determine the first President, but this is not a new solution. Of course, it is possible to discuss whether there should be a random allocation of judges to the court. Such a solution has been introduced in common courts, where it operates and indeed the random system selects those formations. However, there is no such solution in the Supreme Court so far, and this is now determined by the Presidents of the Chambers concerned. On the other hand, if a resolution is to be adopted by the entire Supreme Court formation or in a smaller formation ruling, such competence should be conferred on the first Supreme Court President. Well, I can't agree here with the statement that such a solution in any way affects the independence of the formations. The judges are free to go. In accordance with the Constitution, they are appointed by the President; in accordance with the Art. 178 are in the exercise of their office without prior notice and are subject only to constitutions and laws. Thus, it is difficult to agree here that this independence is excluded or threatened by the fact that the formation of the Supreme Court is determined by the first President or by the Presidents. Once again, I point out that this is happening today, and it is the presidents who point to the formations of the Supreme Court. With regard to the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which was referred to here... 2 judgments in this matter, in November 2019 and the last judgment, of 2 March 2021, concerning questions of preliminary rulings of the referring courts. I would of course like to point out that the referring court will, within the framework of its powers, decide in accordance with the guidelines set out in the explanatory memorandum to that judgment. However, it should be pointed out that the Court of Justice of the European Union has not challenged the judicial appointments in either of the two judgments, on the contrary, the statement of reasons makes it clear that the appointment of judges by the President to the office of a judge is indisputable. It is therefore not possible to discuss whether the judges of the Supreme Court sitting in the assembly, so-called. Old or new judges do not or do not fulfil the obligation of independence. And the next issues, already organisational, covered by the Act, are issues related to the residence of judges, as well as issues concerning the selection of jury. Of course, I fully uphold my position so far, and I do not raise any objections on behalf of the government to the Presidential Law. I ask you to proceed with this request. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Senator. [[Do we hear each other now? Do we hear ourselves, ladies and gentlemen?]] Yes, I can hear you. We can all hear you, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have these questions... I'm not a lawyer, but I think you're gonna give me an answer. Can the law change the matter of the constitution? Because by law, you're trying to change the records that constitutionalists define as inviolable. That's the first question. Does the Constitution provide for the role of a judge acting as President of the Supreme Court? Because that's what you're trying to change, too. In view of the extension of the limitation period for an emergency complaint, will the legislator provide funds for the functioning of the authorities entitled to lodge an emergency complaint? This discussion has already been discussed, but I would like to hear the Minister's answer to the question whether, if this law enters into force, you are planning to increase these resources for the possibility of carrying out the tasks of the law. And now I have a question about this discussion that has already been held here. You believe that when it comes to the decisions taken by the Supreme Court judges, whether it is 50% Judges or 1/2 or 1/3... why 1/3? And if it were 1/5, do you think that would be constitutional or not? What if it was a tenth? You have determined that 1/3 and you want to implement this law. If that's constitutional, then okay, I get it, you have the right. But where does this 1/3 come from instead of 1/10? And now I have a question. Now that you're saying that there may be paralysis in the Supreme Court right now, and therefore you're increasing the powers of the Supreme Court President, will you do so with the Ombudsman? Because if you want to reduce the thresholds so that a third of the judges make decisions, and the explanation is that there might be some kind of paralysis... We're kind of paralyzed about the ombudsman right now. Do you intend to make a similar movement, which, in the opinion of most constitutionalists, is incompatible with the constitution? And the last question, about what you've already tried to explain, is that the President of the Supreme Court will, well, appoint judges. Don't you think that in a politicized Supreme Court, because today this court is considered to be a court, the judges will be chosen according to their political views? After all, the idea of drawing a draw came from the state. However, do you not wish to extend the scope of this direction and, however, to avoid charges? Whether it's this government or any other government, or it's gonna be this squad. The Supreme Court, or any other court, avoid suspicion of decision-making in accordance with political views... Haven't you, however, considered introducing the possibility of drawing a draw on judges? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u102	Thank you, Senator. However, I remind all senators that we ask questions for a minute and no longer. I'll keep an eye on it strictly. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In response to the questions given first, I would like to point out that the Presidential Act adopted in no way alters the provisions contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland nor does it contain solutions which are incompatible with the Constitution. I would like to point out that the Constitution contains statements on how to elect the first President of the Supreme Court as independent Okay, I'm gonna stress this. The Constitutional Authority of the State, as well as the way in which the Supreme Court is shaped and competent, also as an independent body of the State. However, the detailed way in which the election is made as to the appointment or mode of the assembly, the way in which the quorum of this assembly of judges is formed, the number of candidates from which the President elects the first President, is the statutory matter. And in this respect, the constitution refers to the ordinary law. This ordinary law is the Supreme Court Act. In response to this question, I would therefore like to stress once again that at no point is the law adopted infringes the provisions laid down in the Constitution. If that were the case, it would, of course, be appropriate to make a specific request to the Constitutional Court, which is also the only constitutional body authorised to examine the compatibility of the provisions of the ordinary law with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. As far as the next issues are concerned, I would like to point out that... I admit that I do not know anything about the politicisation of Supreme Court judges, as well as the politicisation or political views represented by other judges, universal courts. On the contrary, I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that the profession of a judge, which I also have the honour to do, is a profession of a particular kind, which consists in service. It is a judicial service, the essential element of which is the lack of politicisation. So the judge is allowed less, no more, in terms of his public political activity. And there is no evidence to suggest otherwise in the case of the Supreme Court judges, as yet there is no evidence. Therefore, it is difficult for me to answer the question of politicising the first President of the Supreme Court. Once again, I would like to point out that the fact that the formation of the ruling is established does not in any way translate into the formation of the case law of the Supreme Court. If this were to happen, in line with the standards laid down in the judgment of the Court of Justice, which I mentioned in November 2019, the so-called. a test of the independence of a particular judge in a particular case. And if that were the case, such a judge would be excluded from the case in question. This is the standard of objective verification, but in a specific, not abstract case, the Court of Justice of the European Union has created. With regard to the so-called "issue'. The SLPS, a system of random allocation of cases, I will say that indeed, I admit, this is a very good solution that has been introduced in common courts. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the Minister of Justice does not exercise supervision of the Supreme Court, on the contrary, it is impossible, as was stressed here, to have a division of executive, legislative and judicial powers. Administrative supervision of courts is, of course, exercised by the Minister of Justice, but only in administrative terms, I stress that. Neither the Supreme Court nor the administrative courts exercise such supervision. Nevertheless, this solution is good and perhaps this solution should also be introduced in the Supreme Court. This would certainly be possible, for example, because the number of judges of the Supreme Court is significantly lower than the number of judges of the general courts. In this situation, it would certainly be much easier to build such a system. With regard to the last issue of providing financial resources... It is difficult for me to address this issue. I think the question should be addressed rather to the Minister of Finance. But of course, if it is the will and the need, then I can answer in writing in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u104	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Magdalena Loven. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. As for the exclusion of judges, Minister, I would like to say that the name of Judge Krystyna Pawłowicz somehow reminds me of the fact that there is no exclusion of judges in the cases concerned, but that is not what I want to talk about. I'd like to ask you about a case like this. As in the case of a representative of the applicants representing your President... In any event, we already know that, with regard to this bill, the opinions that he is in line with the constitution, that he does not go beyond the submission, you have based on the resources of lawyers working in the President's Office. I would like to ask whether the position of the Ministry of Justice in this matter is based solely on the knowledge and skills of the staff of the Ministry, including the Minister, who seems to have a master's degree in science, or you have advisors. If so, please give me the names of those who advise you to make such important, important decisions. I ask for this because these opinions are contrary to the opinions of a constitutionalist, undisputed authority, Professor Mark Chmaj, also with an opinion of the authority of the office, the Senate Legislative Office. Who advises you? Is this just an initiative by the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u106	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u107	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator! High Izbo! I would like to point out that the law is a presidential project, not a government project or a minister of justice project, and therefore it is difficult for me to address the issue of advisers in the preparation of this law. No, no, you're reviewing them, so I'm asking if these are your opinions or opinions agreed with the authorities working with the ministry. As for the position I am presenting right now, this is the position I am presenting on behalf of the Minister of Justice. The government's official position on the bill, in addition to the issue concerning the institution of the emergency complaint, was not presented because we considered it to be a matter which falls within the scope of the organisation of the work and functioning of the Supreme Court. The project was a presidential submission and the official position of the government in this respect was not presented. And speaking generally of the senator's question, I would like to point out that this is actually different, depending on the nature of the project. There are issues where the position is consulted, preceded by legal opinions of different legal authorities, and there are issues where the resources of the Ministry of Justice I would add that both civil servants and magistrates from different courts work in the Ministry of Justice are sufficient. There seems to be some issues where the knowledge of people working in the ministry is sufficient. [[I asked for this particular opinion, this particular opinion.]] Mrs Senator, I would like to draw your attention, also to the High House, to the fact that whether or not a provision of the law is compatible with the Constitution can only be decided by the Constitutional Tribunal. Therefore, neither the opinion of even the greatest legal authority nor the position of the government or the minister is binding here. [[Will the marshal let me ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u108	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u109	It is only the opinion drawn up for this project, and I am asking the Minister for this project. Has this project... has the opinion of the Ministry of Justice been consulted with legal authorities other than its own legal resources? That's what I'm asking. If you're having trouble answering, I'm asking you to answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u110	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u111	Thank you, too. I'm not in trouble. As far as legal advice is concerned, this was not the opinion I was presenting before the High House at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u112	Thank you very much. As I understand it, there are no further questions... [[They're here, ……]] I'm sorry, sir. I didn't see the senator. I ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first question is actually rhetorical, but I'm going to ask it because it's often in the discussion. Where does the word "autoritet" appear in the constitution? Is this some kind of constitutional institution? Even legal or legal authority. The second question concerns §3 added to the article. 83. It's about the auxiliary application of the article. 80. But here we are talking about a motion to settle a matter of law in full court or in joint chambers. But then this composition, as I understand it, does not specify, because it is clear from the composition of the chambers or the full composition of the Supreme Court. Where, then, are the new powers of the First President of the Supreme Court? And the third question has a much deeper character. All this procedure that we are considering here, which is to apply to the Presidents of the Supreme Court, the Presidents of the Chambers, must have been applied earlier. But first, of course, it's passed. In relation to the first President of the Supreme Court. As I understand it, the constitutionality of this solution has not been undermined, i.e. there is no request to the Constitutional Court to declare the procedure incompatible with the Constitution. But something came out of the necessity of such an emergency procedure, let's call it, which is not electoral... maybe otherwise: electoral, but with the very far-reaching powers of the president. The question is whether it is necessary to apply this procedure, which we are now trying to apply to another group of people in this law. Is it actually something natural in it? Well, I'd understand if you'd excuse me, I don't wish anyone ill. As a result of COVID, one third of the composition could not be collected, i.e. in the case of the selection procedure... there were enumeratively 32 judges of the Supreme Court... But that didn't happen. There was another reason why the legislator forced him to adopt such a procedure, which, because the President is responsible for the whole state, is the head of state, gave the President such a competence rather than another competence for the election of the first President of the Supreme Court. What was the cause? And do you know of cases like this in other countries? Let us assume that we will only limit ourselves to the European Union, to our civilization circle. The Supreme Court, courts of the same kind, from the same shelves, so to speak, or persons in those courts who were to perform certain duties, did not carry out their duties and had to apply a special law adopted so that there would simply be no paralysis of the State in this regard? Has such a case happened anywhere, or is only Poland distinguished here?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u114	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, of course I don't know this case. I answer the last of the questions put by your senator. I would like to point out that the Supreme Court Act on how to shape the way this court operates in the event that the first President of the Supreme Court in its form, which was in force before last year's amendment, was not elected, contained a legal gap. The solution was such that the first President of the Supreme Court was obliged within 6 weeks before the end of his term of office to convene a meeting of judges to elect candidates as first President. In the absence of such a convening of a meeting within the time limit indicated in the Act, there was no solution which would in any way ensure the continuity of the operation of the Supreme Court. In this context, these provisions were necessary. For remember that there may be various cases It is not only that there are failure to comply with statutory obligations, because there are also random cases which make it impossible to convene this meeting because the President cannot do so for various reasons. Thus, in this respect, the Law clarified the situation in which the first President would be missing or that this assembly would not be convened within the statutory time limit. The same solution, which I stress once again, was envisaged in the case of the election of the Presidents of the Chambers, subject to the fact that this adequacy was imprecise. This is why the Presidential initiative clarifies these fractions in the Act. Once again, I'm pointing that out. I also point out that, with regard to the compatibility of certain regulations with the Constitution, there is a similar situation in the case of another constitutional body, namely the ombudsman. In his case, the term of office of that body is also constitutionally defined, but there is no solution in the constitution, which happens after the end of this term of office. Regulation in this respect is, of course, laid down in the ombudsman's law. There is a solution that says that, after the end of the term of office, unless a new Ombudsman is elected, the Ombudsman is in charge. Therefore, I draw the attention of the High House to the fact that we do not have an ombudsman in our current state, we only have a person who, according to the law, acts as an ombudsman. And another question: indeed in the Constitution I'm here to answer the senator's question. There is no legal authority. It is also difficult to address these issues concerning the compatibility of the provisions of the Act with the positions of certain legal authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u116	Thank you very much, Minister. [[May I ask you a quick question, Mr. Marshal?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u117	In fact, which took place in Poland, this was not a random event. I understand that there was no general assembly at which candidates were to be elected as the first president of the Supreme Court. It was just a deliberate, deliberate, willful act, I would call it, a voluntary act of the first Supreme Court President. Was it or wasn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u118	I understand that's a question for the Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Indeed, there was no random event that would have prevented the assembly of judges from being convened on a statutory date last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have one question. In view of the fact that, on several occasions here, the Minister, the representative of the President and the Minister, have referred to the fact that there must be a safeguard situation in the event that the election of the President is not possible, because, of course, there would be a disorder, please answer us a simple question. Maybe you know the answer, maybe you don't. How many times before 2015 was there such a case in the history of the Supreme Court that it was not possible in normal mode to appoint a president or first president or presidents and was disorderly because there was no person in charge of the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u122	Thank you very much, Marshal. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u123	Thank you very much. I find it difficult to answer the question precisely, but it seems to me that there was such a case. If your marshal and the High House allow, I will examine this issue and answer in writing. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Please.]] But I'm sure, if I remember correctly, this was the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u124	Thank you very much. If there are no further questions, I would like to inform you that the Minister has undertaken to reply in writing to the question asked by Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Richard Śvilski. [[Voice from the room: It's for the record...]] Oh, for the record. I'm so sorry. This is Senator Alexander Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to start a little differently. I will start by commenting on these last answers from the Minister and the last questions. It was very right that you asked the marshal if there was such a case. I don't remember. The minister said he remembered there was one case somewhere. So I'm going to ask the minister this question: did someone destroy the entire Supreme Court Act in connection with this? No, we've managed to solve it. The minister or representative of the president did not come here and turn the legal order upside down. I was very interested in the thesis we talked about in the hallway for a while last night. The Minister moved this thread towards the end After all, we have this case, namely that of the Ombudsman in charge of the RPO. Maybe you can enlighten me and tell me what's going on at the Constitutional Court right now. I think there's a request that this record is unconstitutional. What would you say today, coming up with these solutions, if we were past our sentence? You are referring to a similar solution which the government or the majority have now brought before the Constitutional Tribunal. Where's the logic here, Minister? This sentence, which is repeated over and over again, is that only the Constitutional Tribunal can rule on constitutionality... Does the Minister refer to this statement in relation to this ruling, which concerned the election of three judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, which you did not swear to the President? If that's what you say, you're questioning the president's decision not to take the oath. It's just that you made it out of that podium... Therefore, the Constitutional Tribunal, which you are referring to, which has been treated contrary to the Constitution, destroyed by the actions of the President... What authority does the Minister have to determine whether or not anything is in line with the constitution? This Court, in this composition, which is. I wanted to talk about this random system that the Minister called for, but I won't mind... Maybe I'll mention these weird draw cases in a caucus conversation when you draw the same judge for cases where you have to say yes and no different. There are many such cases in Poland. We're not just talking here, a couple of people were talking about shutting down the system. It all began with this decision of the President, which I spoke about at the beginning, during my speech. The whole problem of destroying the justice system, which is being closed today, started with this President's decision. Before I go... Mr. Senator Czerwiński said that if the bill is such and not different when it comes to the election of the first President of the Supreme Court, it is all the more allowed to do so in relation to the presidents. You even said, without quoting the Latin name, so I'll remind her: an argument a maiori ad minus... Only, Senator, your argument in this case is so... It's like you say that if I steal your car, I can steal your bike without a problem. From the beginning, it's all been based on the fact that the maiori was a huge constitutional leap. And saying that now this minus, which is this modest thing, is going to go through, is full of sophistication, not real legal argument. Returning to this mess, which began with the destruction of the Constitutional Tribunal, then took place here in the previous term of office in turn visits of ministers, every 3 every 4 months, with subsequent conflicting amendments concerning the Supreme Court... You've got a record of this in the TSUE's judgments. And you can't hide under the rug that the system of justice is being dismantled in violation of the Constitution. Mr President's fault is all the more so because he's supposed to stand up for the Constitution. It's hard, but I can understand the political party's desire to take over everything, but I can't understand the arbitration decision that should moderate these players and which doesn't moderate them, stands on one side and helps turn democratic order in the country. This note is unbearable, a false note is the supposed concern for the smooth operation of justice in the context of blocking for a long time the judicial nominations proposed by the old KRS. Tell me, where was the concern? What was involved in blocking the appointments of the judges? Simple. We've been waiting for a new KRS... You waited to have as much as you could to shove yours. And today, the Minister comes out to this pulpit and says that the President is leaning over the fate of the citizens. For five years of change, we have been fed by the fact that this is to speed up the investigation into citizens' justice. Perhaps if you answer, one of you will quote the data, as long as the expectation of justice in Poland has increased. Well, let me tell you, 30%. And in the Supreme Court, you have succeeded in making these wonderful reforms duplicate that time. And you come here to explain to us that these are reforms? Also tell me how you can talk about an emergency complaint and pretend to be It's like that frog that's got a forging leg. That this is your idea, since this idea came out of the Senate. This deadline has just been extended by a year, thanks to our amendments to this law. I ask where was the concern of the Ministry of Justice and the President when it was necessary to guarantee non-theoretical citizens - No, you can write it all down. But practical access to justice, to an emergency complaint. After all, this government has taken money from the spokesperson in an unprecedented way. As far as the IPN is concerned, the ruling groups could probably add 30% or 40%. Well, there's a big action of recognizing the soldier in the photo, and then suddenly, for two years, everyone knows who her name was. You managed to get rid of the IPN not your man, and he could tell you who it is without spending that money. And you didn't give the Ombudsman any more money than you took. And today you want to brag that you're helping citizens? That's what this concern looks like, that's how you run the justice system. It's not about helping someone, it's about deciding everything for yourself. You do not look at this opinion at all from the opinion of our legislators: in relations between the legislative and executive authorities, various forms of interaction and cooperation are possible. On the other hand, the relationship between the judicial authority and the others must be based on the principle of separation. And the state is constantly entering what is reserved for a separate judicial authority. And this is the first-born sin, which just leads to the fact that the Polish justice system is so and not differently perceived in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u126	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u127	I am a witness and participant in the work on 9 amendments to the Supreme Court Act. These amendments have appeared since law and justice took power. The first, the one from 2017, reduced the retirement age of the Supreme Court judges. Of course, the argument was that this had to be adapted to the overall retirement age, but that was not the point. It was about removing the Supreme Court President, Judge Gersdorf. That's what it was all about. You had to go back after the judgment of the European Court of Justice. And then there was another amendment, and then there was another amendment. Each of these amendments aimed to limit the independence of the Supreme Court of the Constitutional Institution, which is extremely important, most important in the judicial system. And so one step at a time... Previously, you changed this bill in such a way that you could elect your President of the Supreme Court. And you chose, just like you wanted, to lower the quorum. Yes, by lowering the quorum, you consciously sought not to be elected president of the judge who will receive the most votes, but the judge who will be appointed by the executive authority. And that's what happened. At the moment, you're taking the next step, the same mechanism, because you're introducing the same mechanism into the election of the Presidents of the Supreme Courts. And that's the same thing, I mean. Not to be presidents elected by judges, but to be presidents appointed from the outside. And that's why, first, you keep the quorum needed to elect the President of the Chamber... Well, it's 2/3, and if it's not 2/3, it's half, not half, it's 1/3, and if it's not 1/3, it's an indication by the president, which is part of the executive power. So this is the next step to reduce the independence of the Supreme Court, but also to reduce the authority of the Supreme Court judges. Well, I'm sorry, what authority does the current president have, Judge Manowska, who received much less votes than Judge Sparrow? Isn't it known outside? It's not like you can point a finger at a man and he'll have authority. He must first have authority in his environment. That is why he should be elected by 2/3 of the judges of the Chamber. But before you changed the Supreme Court Act, it was a change that allowed judges to be moved from different chambers, those who were appointed to one chamber... to these two chambers created during the PiS. The law allows those judges to be moved to other chambers, those chambers which are not contested, as well as their validity. This is the destruction of the rule of law. It's to attract faith in the independence of the courts, this time the independence of this most important court. And one more thing, it seems marginal, by the way. You create the legal possibility to delegate the powers of the Presidents of the Chambers concerning the compositions and time limits for dealing with cases in the Supreme Court to the President of the Supreme Court. Why? Because you already have full confidence in the President of the Supreme Court, and there are judges in chambers that you don't trust, which you say are communists, those who were convicted during martial law, from individual cases to statements, general terms. Well, if it's human That's not what you're charging. A man like that goes to the Constitutional Court and you don't charge him with that sort of thing. So don't tell me these actions lead to a better functioning of the Supreme Court. After all, you have taken such action earlier in the field of common courts, and this was intended to improve the operation of common courts, and longer is waiting to be dealt with in common courts. It's gonna be in the Supreme Court anyway, but you're not gonna talk about it anymore. This is a law that causes the executive authority to enter and interfere with the judicial system. This is a non-constitutional law, which is done as if on the occasion of a minor matter of extension of time limits for an emergency complaint. But it's not about an emergency complaint, because if it was an emergency complaint, you would accept our bill, which came out of the Senate and which was about it. It's just that you were after something else. You destroy the courts, you destroy the Supreme Court, you destroy the Constitutional Tribunal. What else are you gonna destroy? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Komorowski, who will take the floor remotely. You're welcome, Senator. [[You can hear me, right?]] Yes, sir, you're welcome, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal...]] And now you can see what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u129	Okay, well, maybe I'll move the lens a little bit. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I submitted to the discussion because I did not have time to ask the questions of the Senator of the rapporteur, Mrs Moravian-Stanecka. I don't know if I came forward wrong or if I was unnoticed, but I don't care. We have started a discussion on a very important and delicate matter and an extremely high emotional level can be seen in this discussion. I will try to speak calmly, in a toned way. The Senators of the PIS must speak in the discussion so that the message of the Senate is not a one-sided message. It must be said that in the Senate we have a confrontation of different worldviews, different views of reality and consequently of the applicable law. But of course, everyone has the right to their views, to express and argue them. I do not share those positions which have been presented here, that we have disturbed various situations of the rule of law, etc. I'd say, so perversely, that I'm already getting lost here, where we have here a maiori ad minus, and where we have a minori ad maius, do we sometimes cross somewhere, or doesn't someone cross... Well, it's just a slam dunk. I don't share those views... In her report on the work of the committee, the rapporteur, Senator Morawska-Stanecka, made it clear that the provisions of the various articles of this law are contrary to the constitution, that is, to such a provision, to such and such. This is the question that I would like to ask: is Mrs Morawska-Stanecka the Constitutional Tribunal, or does she have the powers of the Constitutional Tribunal to state such matters? What I would say is, there are opinions, there is an assessment, an assessment with which I do not agree, an assessment which has no legal force. E.g. my assessment is different: that these rules are in line with the Constitution. That doesn't mean that my assessment has any legal power, nor does it have an assessment of individual constitutionalists. Because what else is evaluation, sir, and what else is judgment. Art. The 33th Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal provides explicitly: the Constitutional Tribunal shall rule on the compatibility of the laws with the Constitution. And only the Court can say that any law or law is incompatible with the Constitution. And outside the Court, there are only opinions, positions, assessments that are so de facto not legally valid. And I do not fully share those views which, here in this House, in this discussion and on other occasions, are repeating at some time that the Constitutional Tribunal has been wrongly elected. Well, I would like to strongly protest and say that wrongly, High Senate, it was the 7th Sejm who elected the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in place of judges who had not yet completed their term of office. And some senators of the current term of office in that 7th Seym sat, so... And saying by them that the Constitutional Tribunal was wrongly elected... Well, I don't really get it. I generally support this bill, it's a presidential presentation. And as for the issue that we have a seventh or another amendment of the law... there is another amendment of the law ahead of us. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, we have already discussed this issue. It's a senate initiative, where you're completely overturning the construction of the Supreme Court, destroying one chamber there, etc., you want to introduce a council on the National Courts. Well, there's a solution there. I think we're gonna be discussing this again. It also raises many doubts and questions about compliance with the constitution and other provisions, as well as what they are practically meant to serve. So, in conclusion, I would like to cast my vote in favour of the bill, which supports this submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Senator, but your speech has prompted a group of senators to speak ad vocem. As the first, please, mentioned by you several times by the name of Marshal Morawska-Staneck, who therefore has an obvious right to a replica. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u131	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, since I have been called several times by Senator Komorowski, as the Marshal noted, I am unable to answer. I am surprised that the senator who has a legal education does not know the basic things, that is, the powers of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. So I'm telling the senator that I'm qualified to do this job. I, unlike many people who have unfortunately sat in this Court, have 26 years of experience in the legal profession. Therefore, I have the power to judge whether something is constitutional or not. That's the first line. Second line. The senator is a legal counsel. I know you've been doing a different profession since 1990, but you know very well, because you've graduated from the university, which is a scattered constitutional control, which I've already told you about today, and I think it's precisely Mr. Senator, whose legal knowledge I have extraordinary respect for, I don't have to explain it. And as for the opinion, of course. We may have different opinions, but there is such a thing as the constitution and the law, and the rule of law. And neither the law nor the rule of law nor the constitution has any relation to the worldview, because that is why the constitution is, and that is why we want to observe it, that people of every worldview have a place in this country to be equal and to feel that the constitution gives them protection and that the President of the Republic of Poland is the guardian of this constitution. I'm dreaming of having a president who's gonna be a constitutional guardian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u132	Thank you very much. Please, also in ad vocem mode, Mr. Senator Alexander Pociej called by name. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u133	Yes... [[I didn't call Senator Pociej by his name.]] Since the senator was inclined to refer to the Latin paremia quoted by me, claiming that I was quoting wrongly, and since your senator had not been present before during the discussion, you did not participate, as you yourself said at the beginning of your speech, I would just like to say that I named in Latin what your club colleague, Senator Czerwiński, referred to in the discussion. And that's it. I didn't invent it, so I don't feel very responsible here for using Latin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u134	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In this discussion there were various arguments, sometimes simply false, because they did not refer to the text or misinterpreted it, but there were also arguments, I would call it A more fundamental nature. Maybe a little bit about that. There was such an argument that the judicial authority of among the three types of authority is special and, as has been stated, the separation of the judicial authority should be maintained. But not alienation. The judicial authority is not to be and to be good to members of the judicial authority, it is to perform certain functions, to uphold civil rights, etc. It's meant to serve the nation, the sovereign. That's what she's even called for. The judicial authority is like other types of government a servant of the nation, so it cannot take action that serves only it, and the consequences of which are negative for this nation or members of the nation. Incidentally, the constitution does not foresee such a complete separation of judicial authority. Art. Point (c) of the first 3: the first President of the Supreme Court is appointed by the President of the Republic. This is a separation? Of course not. The executive authority here has the power of power, it has an empire over the judiciary. Incidentally, among the candidates presented by the General Assembly of the Supreme Court Judges, there is... It's not about the candidate, because it would be fiction. Well, that would just be approval, and that's more than that. Appointment is a choice of at least 2 candidates. The Constitution doesn't specify how many of them are supposed to be. This is the empire, this is the power of the person who holds the office of President of the Republic of Poland over the judiciary, in this case over the head, the president of its most important body. Well, the Supreme Court can be regarded as one of the most important judicial authorities. The same is true of the article. 185. The President of the Supreme Administrative Court shall be appointed by the President of the Republic from among the candidates submitted by the General Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Administrative Court. The concept of separation of judicial authority is a theoretical construction. That's what you're saying to get the Constitutionalists just to agree with the paragraphs. That's not the construction. It's supposed to be independence, it's supposed to be cooperation, not complete separation. And all the time, we need to be in the back of our heads knowing who we're in charge of, why we've been called. The concept of authority. Well, that's pretty cool. I think somebody's gonna write a master's degree, maybe even a PhD. What does constitutional authority mean? He has no idea, no legal authority or legal authority in the Constitution. Whatever someone calls them, whether they really are authorities, whether they know more or less than others, these people can only be opinion providers. In this respect, which we are talking about, that is, as regards the constitutionality of legal acts, their compliance with the overarching acts, in particular with the Constitution... It is only the Constitutional Tribunal's right to determine whether an act is compatible with the Constitution. This is an institution appointed in a special way, which is probably the longest term of office among the constitutional authorities. Well, that's like nine years. The point is to keep this institution stable, independent. This applies to every court, but to this tribunal in particular. That's what the Constitutional Tribunal is for, not any of us. If we're talking constitutionality, it's usually a far-reaching shortcut. Something against the constitution? It must always be added: I think so, in my opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a little embarrassing that I'm standing here. I'm ashamed of the Supreme Court. I'll use a quote from a completely different bill. It's about art. 98a, which means the article was added. It appears from the numbering itself that during the course of the act, something was found to be wrong, and a new article had to be added to its content. Well, something that law didn't regulate, it didn't work in some area. I'm talking about art. 98a of the Municipal Government Act. I'm not gonna quote it entirely. I'm just gonna say the most important thing. If the competent authority of the municipality does not comply with the regulatory obligation They're listed here. The Act on the limitation of the conduct of business by public officials does not adopt a resolution, does not dismiss the position or does not terminate the employment contract, the voivode asks the municipality authority to take the relevant act within 30 days. In the event of an unsuccessful expiry of the term of office, after notifying the Minister responsible for public administration, he shall issue a replacement order. This is fully similar to what is happening at the moment, on the occasion of the adoption of this law. Until a certain point, the commune's organs were That's what I call "legally responsible" in a nutshell. They were given some authority, a duty, and a law. They were just supposed to decide... to actually confirm, but this confirmation was necessary, in a sovereign way, sometimes the status of their members, e.g. Councillor who embezzled the Act on the limitation of business activity. And the commune authorities didn't take such acts, mostly they did, but there were cases that they didn't. And what happened? Of course, that's not what we say in literature, but they've really lost the right to call themselves... Of course, not all of them, it was unique, but the bill applies to everyone, because it affects the future, it is an abstract and general act. They've lost that quality, the value of being organs legally certain. If they don't do something, well, in this case, sometimes for low motives, they don't cancel their councillor so he doesn't lose his diet, then what? Then comes the supervisory authority, someone who has to do some work for them with the same legal force, in this case the voivode, well, it is assumed that he is a legally certain body, which is always going to do what lies in his competence. We're going back to that bill again. This law does not take away any powers from individual chambers of the Supreme Court. They may elect candidates as their governors autonomously, independently, with a quorum of 2/3. It is a very large quorum, such as in the case of the Sejm and the Senate in particular situations. If they don't do it for some reason, the required quorum is 1/2, and if they still don't, the quorum is 1/3. But if unfortunately not for random reasons, because here we are not talking about such reasons, just about some kind of planned political process, they do not lead to it or cannot lead to it, for example. Their assembly has not been convened and the policy is being pursued by someone else, then the body must come legally sure and do this work that has not been done... [[The voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, what about time?]] [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. ...It's not done as a replacement, so it's clear to run the option of doing this, e.g. convene a meeting to appoint candidates for the President of the Chamber. It's just that I'm ashamed that we have to make that law. I hope it will never be applied again. Unfortunately, recent history says otherwise. I hope... [[Mr. Senator, you're out of time.]] Last sentence. ...this will be the last act that the judicial authority will try to assist in regaining her authority. Let us hope that the judicial authority will regain this authority where it should do so, in case law and in keeping away from politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u136	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Komorowski. In remote mode. This is the second time, so the senator has five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u137	Yes. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Of course, I did not question the competence of Senator Moravian-Stanecka. I believe that in the Senate, in our House, there would also be many other people in the Sejm who have the power to sit, whether in the Supreme Court or in the Constitutional Court. But I don't think that's what this is about. And as far as these bonuses are concerned, I was rather referring to myself as being lost in part where they apply and whether or not there is an overrun of them. What's the big deal? Is the constitution perfect? I don't think so. Does the constitution require a change? Is there a need for change? I think so. But at the same time, I believe that the Constitution is defending all the social groups today, and the President, I believe, is upholding the Constitution and constitutional rights. Common courts, including the Supreme Court. I believe that they are independent and independent. And as for the fact that things are sometimes dealt with for a long time, it must be said that not all cases, besides often this is the result of objective reasons as well. And that's what we have to say, too. The parties' procedural actions, which are independent of the courts and judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u138	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I wouldn't have spoken if it wasn't for one important part of my punt of view of the whole discussion. I want to make it clear that the focus on whether we are going in the right direction or the wrong direction from the point of view of independence, sovereignty, one direction or another and the development of the situation in the justice system does not make sense if we are not talking about who is the target of all these reforms, who is the recipient of all these reforms. And it is a citizen, sometimes an economic operator, sometimes a natural person. I must say that I am looking at all the changes that have been happening in the justice system for several years, and I am looking at them from the point of view of the efficiency of the justice system with a view to citizens and legal entities. It's dramatic. I am your representative in the National Courts today, so I also observe the effects of all these reforms there, and looking at the chronicity of the proceedings, the weakening efficiency of all judicial instances, I must say that we are dealing with a real scandal. The extent to which we are losing in this matter, the effects it has, including economic, on our credibility, the ability of citizens to prosecute justice effectively, is an absolute drama. I would like to make it clear that every discussion and every debate, whether we are talking about the Supreme Court or whether we are talking about the regional court or whether we are talking about administrative proceedings, should always be aimed at drawing attention to the effect of all these proceedings in the context of the citizens in the final. And what I'm trying to say is that it's dramatic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u140	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that this was the last of your senators to vote. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the matter under consideration... Sorry, Senators Ryszard Świlski, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Benjamin Godyla, Robert Mamątow, Alexander Szwed, Adam Szejnfeld, Beata Małecka-Libera, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka submitted their votes to the minutes. They're senators who've made speeches to protocol. I would like to inform you, once again, that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print 308, and the committee's report In print No 308 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present the report of the four committees that you just mentioned. At its joint meeting on 23 March 2021, these committees considered, at first reading, the draft law submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the Senate to adopt a uniform draft law and a draft resolution on the submission of that draft law to the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed version of the law will extend the possibility of free transfer to the local government unit of real estate belonging to the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. The request for the approval of the competent minister was maintained, which would allow guarantees to be kept to safeguard the interest of the State Treasury. In the current state of law, there is no statutory authority for the National Agricultural Support Centre to do so, which prevents it from being carried out. We had a discussion about this. As I said, amendments have been made. At the moment, this very short, small change, but very important for local government, is detailed, the definition of green areas has been added, as suggested by the ministries and the senators, there is also a condition regarding compliance with the findings of the local spatial planning, and in the absence of this plan. A study of the conditions and directions of the commune's spatial development. There has been a discussion, the senators have adopted the draft in the vote and I ask very much, on behalf of the joint committees, that this draft be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u143	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. My question is... maybe the senator, maybe the senator will answer... Were there any analyses regarding the purpose of setting up the park? Were there any analyses of how many local governments in the country applied to the National Agricultural Support Centre for such property in order to create a park or, as recorded after changes, green areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u144	Thank you very much. Senator? [[Thank you...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u145	I have no knowledge of how many local governments have requested this, but I could justify here for a very long time how much this change is needed. I would like to point out that so far we have such a situation that KOWR can transfer land free of charge for the needs of the municipality, e.g. under sports fields or other purposes, but cannot pass them to the park. And that's why, in order to fill in this gap, we propose these changes in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u147	To answer Mr. Senator, here's what I'm going to say: there are dozens of cases of this kind in the last few years. They're not comparable to each other. E.g. Several applications in Upper Silesia, in Silesia are applications for small areas, small scraps, for the development of such agricultural areas, mainly agricultural waste, for parks. We had one big conclusion, a long time ago, related to Mużakowski Park. It is a large area, it was about the Pomeranian Voivodeship. As far as cities are concerned, we have noted six large cities that wanted to allocate agricultural land to parks, in some cases forests, differently defined. But in general, if this bill reaches its finale, about 100 such proposals can be expected in the near future within a dozen months, I believe.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u148	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Can I ask you a question?]] You're welcome. The senator has an extra question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u149	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, if you don't mind my asking... How big are these areas? We know the situation from Wrocław, because it was mentioned in committee, there was more than 60 hectares. And in the case of other cities were they also such requests, about as huge an area as in Wrocław, over 60 hectares?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u150	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u151	Two areas were large. One thing I remember from the ministry was the Wigry area. The second, concerning Mużakowski Park, was also slightly larger. Wroclaw's proposal, as far as cities are concerned, concerns the largest area.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u152	Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? We have Minister Ryszard Bartosik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! The draft law extends the possibility of free transfer to local government units of real estate which are part of the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury by allowing them to be transferred to green areas, within the meaning of the Nature Conservation Act, provided that this is in line with the findings of the local spatial planning plan and, in the absence of it, from the study of the conditions and spatial planning of the municipality. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has a negative opinion on this proposal. Lands that could be used for green areas are usually land with a larger area, well located, and thus land with a very high investment potential, which are attractive components of the resource. Their unpaid disposal could have a significant negative impact on the performance of the statutory tasks of the National Agricultural Support Centre. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, in the original wording of the article. Paragraph 24 5 point 1 of the Act on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury was able to transfer the property of the stock free of charge to the local government unit for infrastructure investments. This scope was very broad and in principle any statutory task of local government units could be in line with the provisions of this provision. Therefore, in 2011 the catalogue of targets was limited and concrete. Currently, the catalogue of objectives seems sufficient and serves the implementation by local government units of the necessary investments. Between 1992 and 31 December 2019 more than 59 000 ha were transferred to local government units, including in 2019 444 ha. The amendment of the law to the proposed scope raises doubts due to the ability of NOWR to carry out statutory tasks, as resources from resource management by the National Agricultural Support Centre are allocated to rural development. There is a likelihood that the real estate resources in the urban areas will be allocated in local zoning plans to green areas, while the local authorities' property, which could be used to create such sites, will be allocated to other local government investments. As a rule, large-scale real estate is allocated to the creation of parks, and hence significant value. As a result, the amount of funds available to the National Agricultural Support Centre may significantly decrease. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Marshal, the High Senate, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, has given a negative opinion on this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u154	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u155	Minister, I must say that I am amazed at this opinion, because above all it contains illogicalness, contradiction, and in a sense also some dramaticness from the point of view of the interests of the Polish state. You yourself said that nearly 60,000 hectares of agricultural land have recently been transferred for various purposes. What's it like? And that's what I'd like to hear from you. That the Ministry of Agriculture would gladly transfer land under the stadium, ice rink, gym, various other things that occur in this catalog, but not under greenery? If it passes under the stadium, there is no fear that this land will be converted into green. But in the case of greening, he has concerns that he will change for example. in the ground under the construction of the stadium. As it is, the Ministry, which is called the Ministry of Agriculture, has included in the catalogue objectives which are completely unrelated to nature conservation, environmental protection, or greenery, etc., etc.? And if we want to fill this gap that the representatives of your department were also talking about, there's an objection. How is it that you can transfer land to local governments free of charge for purposes that are completely unrelated to the activity of the Ministry that you represent and, in the case of greenery, there is opposition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, the Senate, when it comes to land devoted to parks, to green spaces, is land with very large areas. The senator here mentioned resources for stadiums and other sports facilities. Each such situation is analysed individually. As a rule, these are small areas, very often adjacent to school facilities. In such cases, KOWR grants consent and allocates land e.g. to expand the field or gym, contributing to the fact that local government can pursue its objectives. The regulations in force already allow KOWR to transfer the local government unit of the property also to green areas for rest, in which facilities related to physical culture and sport are usually planned to be created, provided that this is in line with the planning documents. And that's what happens. So the main reason is that the spaces under the parks in the proposed project are very large, they are very often attractive investment areas. And we know that local governments, especially those in the city centers, also have areas that can be used for parks and thus use them. KOWR... the main task of the National Agricultural Support Centre is to manage resources properly. And if these resources are disposed of, they are used to support agriculture in a different form. And that's KOWR's job. The areas that I was talking about, mentioned by the senator, are transferred not only in large cities, but also in many local governments, including rural authorities. And they are usually used for the development of education, which, in our opinion, is a very good action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u158	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Zdrojewski's next question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u159	I thank you for somehow confirming my concerns that for various other purposes Yeah, and for the green. No, no, no, no, My question And this is the last question to the Minister: are you aware that this proposal for a law is not written in such a way that it is mandatory? There's no forced transfer of this area, there's only possibility. So depending on whether KOWR evaluates one way or another, it has the ability to transfer 1 ha or 0.5 ha, 300 m2 or 30 ha, but it does not have to do this. Is there any awareness in the ministry that we are giving an opportunity and not obliging it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u160	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister. I see more people asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate, yes, we are perfectly aware of the provisions of this law, but the position on the basis of the arguments I have presented earlier is negative in this regard. We stand in the position that the current catalogue is sufficient to assist the local government where necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u162	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u163	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you what I have already partially asked Senator Zdrojewski. I'm talking about the number of applications and what area it might be. Well, here we have, for example. a large application for more than 60 hectares. But do we have detailed information on how many such requests, as far as parks are concerned, have been received in recent years? And what area are we talking about in the case of these proposals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u164	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u165	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, Mr. Senator, unfortunately, at this moment I do not have such information. We can pass them on later.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u166	Thank you very much. Then I understand that you have committed yourself to a written reply, Minister. You're welcome, ma'am. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Senator. [[Me, right?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u167	Thank you very much. Of course, once again, I would like to stress that we are talking about opportunities and not about obligations. In turn, the position of the Ministry of Agriculture surprises me very much Now, in a time when it is very broad to talk about adapting urban, suburban and other areas to the green economy, to clean air, to the climate. And there is an opportunity for the local government to use areas that are not used properly or which are not used at all if it has a plan and money to do so. And there are some things you can do together, by agreement. That is why such a harsh point of view, that we absolutely disagree and have a negative position, is incomprehensible and actually very unpopular in our country's current policy. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much, but... please, Minister, but I would like to stress that we now have time to ask questions, not to give an opinion on the bill...]] Yes, please... [[... what we have the right to do during the debate.]] I'm sorry, I didn't finish with the question. [[Oh!]] Then what do you think of my statement?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u168	Thank you very much, Senator. This is undoubtedly a question. And the Minister may answer them in the manner he considers appropriate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Well, it's not for me to judge what the senator said. However, I would like to say that we, as I said before, are transferring resources from the State Treasury to various purposes, in this case the National Agricultural Support Centre, in agreement with the local government. These transfers are free of charge and are in line with the current catalogue. And we take the view that the provisions in the current wording of the Act are sufficient. I would like to stress that every proposal from the local government is carefully considered, individually and in most cases we agree with such proposals. And as I said earlier, as regards parks within the meaning of this statutory amendment, these are very large areas, which are usually located in large cities, often investment areas, and we also know that in such local government units there are unused areas and local governments can also use them for parks. It is often the case that the local government allocates the land it owns to investment areas, and the National Agricultural Support Centre seeks to transfer large amounts of land free of charge. We believe that the existing records allow the transfer to the local government of the area that is needed for the implementation of e.g. educational tasks, and very often this happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u170	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm gonna continue with what Professor Rotnick was just talking about, but I'm gonna ask you a question. Did you take part in the creation of the National Programme for Reconstruction, today consulted, where there is much talk about greening or increasing green areas in cities?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u172	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! Of course, I have been involved, and at the moment we all have the opportunity to take part in the discussion on the National Plan for Reconstruction, because this is the time. There are significant measures to support many different tasks, those to improve the wider understanding of ecology. There's quite a lot of money. I think that local authorities will also benefit from the funds that will be allocated to them in open competitions. Probably a few of these funds will also be allocated to green areas. If cities want to benefit from this, they can build on the resources of the land they own, but they can also benefit from funding from the National Reconstruction Plan for other projects.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u175	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you about one more thing arising from the Law on the Management of Agricultural Property of the Treasury. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 24 are described in a number of situations where, if the area is transferred by KOWR and its destination is not in line with what was declared here, i.e. if within a period of 10 years the entity or the local authority concerned has not used it for the purposes set out in the contract, the national centre shall apply to that entity with a request for repayment of the current monetary value of the property or the real estate itself. There are many of the situations mentioned in the article. 24. I would like to ask what the procedure is, what is the effectiveness in this case. Is there often a situation where an entity or a local government does not comply with the land use agreement? Because, as the Minister has already pointed out here, we have many such areas for investment, in general these areas are a very attractive bite. Therefore, I ask whether such situations often occur, that after 10 years the area is not used as intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u176	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Such situations happen, but on a national scale they are rare cases. Last year there were about 30 such cases on a national scale. This is enforced by the National Agricultural Support Centre. As regards the quantities of land transferred, these are really rare cases when it comes to local government.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u178	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I would ask you to consider the following arguments. After all, this bill will come out of the Senate, because most people here will approve it, and go to the Sejm. Because it is your will and opinion that will depend most. Argument number one. We have a pandemic period and we're going to have it for a long time, and from what I know about how the virus works, and what I understand, the park is one of the few places where people can go free and just be outside, walk, in short. They're not gonna do it in the gallery, they're not gonna do it on crowded promenades, city centers. Two. You have areas that are also not agriculturally attractive, and no one else... nothing else will arise in these places, except the park, the boulevard. These can be riverside areas, also flood areas, and there you can do e.g. bike paths, you can take pedestrian and bike traffic out of the city, relatively without collision. And then... What then? Well, the city will have to buy it if such a plot is on the planned investment site, e.g. the cycle path. These investments are relatively non-capital-eating, because the setting up of a park... This is a pretty important case. This isn't just about those issues of overgrown land, so I'd say He called it, even with hawks or some kind of samosas, but they may be wasted, on which there is nothing more to be done. And setting up the park, marking the alleys, betting e.g. some small leisure architecture, sometimes maybe fences, and just treeing... or not even treeing, because in the initial phase it's just greening isn't that expensive. This is much cheaper than any other investment. And, as I said at the beginning of the speech, it is very desirable now. And one last thing. You, as KOWR, can't make a park in these areas. You can use the terrain on a farm, but, as I often say, these are low-bonitative soils, for example. flood areas, along the rivers... Many of our big cities are located by the rivers, and the two banks of the river are the best to exit, without collisions with traffic, pedestrian and bike traffic from the city. Think about it again, because, as I say, there's a lot more to these arguments. And just to put it simply, we're not gonna defend ourselves enough if we say no because we don't.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u180	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, Mr. Senator, I wouldn't want us to be impressed in this courtroom. And that's the way it's going for a while. It's like the park's starting to depend on it. only from the National Agricultural Support Centre and from this law. It is possible to set up a park in the city because local governments have their own land property. It's possible. And this project is talking about some possibilities that are not necessary in our opinion, because we are already transferring different areas on the basis of existing regulations. And if the local government's request is justified, then we're transferring it to the bike paths, as you mentioned, we're transferring it to the road construction, to the other infrastructure. Wherever it's needed. I will give an example that we are currently dealing with in one of KOWR's branches, in the Wielkopolska branch of KOWR. Over one of the horse's lakes is the land resource of the national support centre, 16 ha, and there the local government wants to create a holiday resort. We are in the process of talking and everything shows that this resource of the national support centre will be transferred to the local government for this purpose, all the more so because there are opportunities to obtain external resources for the local government to carry out a given project. Thus, such situations occur and are not individual situations. We hand over to the local government, wherever possible, the land resource of the national support centre. And the example I just gave is the best proof of that. This transfer works on the basis of the existing rules. To sum up, I believe that this law will not contribute to the fact that in Poland there will be a significant increase in parks, because local governments already have such opportunities and these parks can create. Where requests are made to transfer the land of a national support centre to them, these applications shall be dealt with and shall, as a general rule, be dealt with positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u182	Thank you very much, Minister. If you'd like to ask me a question, please. remotely Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. [[Hello, can we hear you?]] Yes, Mr. Senator, we can hear you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Well, I'm a little devastated by the ministry's opinion, but I have a question. Do you know Tczew's example? As far as I know, CBA's been in there lately. 10 years ago the municipality took over the area, well, then KOWR had not yet been there, managed the area, but did not do it according to its destiny, now it has to pay the money, but protected the area, a very important landscape area from logging, because the State Forests cut down trees, and the local authorities tend to care about these trees. Minister, I do not know if you know that there are 2,000 474 local governments in Poland, if I am not mistaken, and everyone is different. So if you're talking about local governments doing this or that, you have to remember. that there are a lot of local governments. If you're saying that local governments have parks, that's not necessarily the case, I think you're missing the truth because a lot of local governments don't have parks. Minister, you have said this, and you are proud to pass the area to the resort. Don't you want to transfer the area to the park? Because if I understood the intention of the legislators, Maybe you can correct it, Mr. Minister. It's about wooded areas. This is not about the areas that the municipality will take over, change the zoning plan and sell them to the factory. Besides, it wouldn't be bad either, because there would be jobs and taxes, but we're not talking about that. Am I wrong, Minister? Is it that we're talking about handing over wooded areas that cities want to use as parks? These are areas that can't be cut out if they're in cities. What's that for? If you could just explain to me... Why do you not want to give the local authorities the care of the green areas that will be used for what my previous speaker, Senator Czerwiński, was talking about? I usually disagree with him, and in this case, I'm really glad we're on the same team. After all, it will serve everyone. And the last thing you need to do is confirm it again, because I need to be sure... It won't be mandatory. After all, if this law were to enter into force, you would continue to decide whether or not the territory is very important to you. If he's less important, so are you. Czerwinski said This also applies to my town, and the boulevards could actually develop the cities in the interests of their inhabitants. Why don't you give the local authorities the opportunity to develop what you're not planning? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Of course, I can't agree with that. If the senator says that the State Forests only deal with logging trees, and the local governments don't, then I'll say it's very different. Land management takes place according to your needs, and the senator knows it very well. It often happens that the local government cuts out trees, and it's different with this management. But all you do is create an atmosphere in this room as if the creation of new green areas, parks depended only on the National Agricultural Support Centre. That's not true. I have said several times that local governments have their own territory and they can create parks there if they want to. And all the areas that are in the resources of the national support centre, wooded areas, riverside areas, are accessible to the inhabitants of a given city, a given area, whether they are in local government or a national support centre. As I said before, we pass the territory to local governments where there is a need, on the basis of the rules in force. And these contracts, these notarial acts concerning transfers, there are a lot of them every year. And it's not like the local government's support center is leaving. Self-governments have repeatedly received this land for the very necessary purposes. As far as recreational centres, sports and recreation are concerned, we are very sympathetic to them. And that's what I'm talking about, not something else. And that's what we do for, because it also serves the local community. To sum up, I believe that the existing rules allow for cooperation with local government in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u186	Thank you very much, Minister. Please inform me that there are no further questions. I would also like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to respond in writing to the question that Senator Aleksander Szwed asked. I would also like to inform you that Senator Alexander Swed and Senator Benjamin Godyla made their speeches in the debate. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted... Are you still Senator Zdrojewski? Oh, I'm sorry, in what mode? [[In the debate.]] Oh, in the debate. So Mr. Senator is joining the debate. Then I'm sorry. I didn't have that call for debate. You're welcome, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'll talk soon, but I think there's a few things I need to say, a few things to remind you. I became president of Wrocław in 1990. I've been that president for 11 years. I remember the excellent cooperation with Mr. Adam Tański. And the Minister of Agriculture and the President of the Agricultural Property Agency of the State Treasury. I remember how many local governments were successful at that time thanks to efficient donations from the State Treasury to local governments. These were various donations, they were donations to parks, they were donations to agricultural waste, they were also donations, as I remember well and I remember well to this day, e.g. Toru Racing Horses Partynice in Wroclaw to save this attractive green area. It so happened that at the end of the 1990s and at the beginning of this century, as a result of numerous changes in spatial economy and spatial economy laws, precisely such operations... In short, this catalogue overlooks the possibility of transferring parcels to municipalities for park purposes, green areas or even wasteland in order to manage them. I think it's a big mistake. This error has been noticeable for many, many years, but in my opinion it is particularly painful during the pandemic. Because it is clear that most of us today work remotely. Green trains can be implemented in an open space, but they require a lot of patience. They are often not spectacular, because before the trees grow, before these parks are really interesting, interesting and valuable, time passes. Today we are dealing with such a rush to spectacular successes, from day to day, immediately. I think it's surprising what the Minister said. I'm not saying that it's shocking, it's surprising that if it were a small park, yes, it would be a tendency to pass on such an area, but when it comes to a big, big, impressive park, it's definitely not. I also want to ask the rhetorical question: who is more difficult at this time of pandemic? Are the said agricultural agencies or local governments? Today I am in favour of all possible help to local governments to help them, as far as possible, give them the chance to carry out projects that are not cheap. They're not very expensive, but they're not cheap. They require planning effort, they require a clean-up of the area, very often decontaminated some of the unuseful, which are after a variety of mismanagements. I am in favour, in short, of the call made here by the senator to change his mind on the subject. There's still time, probably to consider this project in the Seym. So I am directing this appeal with particular clarity and special power. I want to go back to my own experiences. I realized from the ground up e.g. The Millennium Park in Wroclaw, enlarged Stabłowicki Park, implemented Japanese garden on its own initiative. It was from the Minister of Agriculture that I received awards for all these tasks. There were these awards year after year, Wroclaw was probably the only city... But I was able to do that because I received some land. Not all of them, because some of them belonged to the city anyway. We have shown how the city can actually be made more attractive by implementing new green areas, wedges, ventilation. This is extremely educational, important, but also appreciated by the residents. Today we have a bad situation. And I agree with one passage, which is contained in the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, that unfortunately local governments very often Not always, but too often, I would say. They squeeze as much as they can out of the land they own to maximize their urbanisation. It's a big mistake. I am opposed to such spatial management in the city, so that the degree of urbanization exceeds the limits of common sense at all, so that this city of communication cannot be handled, so that the settlements that arise are often deprived of service infrastructure, medical infrastructure, the ability to satisfy the basic needs of the inhabitants. I agree with that part of the opinion. But I know there's a tool or even a tool that can be used to counteract it, and it could be controlled. I can't. I'm here to answer to the senator. To be precise how many such proposals have been formulated and how many such proposals have not been formulated because this is not possible. However, I know that in several voivodships there is a severe lack of possibility to implement new green areas, and this desire is. I am therefore convinced that today the Senate is asking the government to give it a chance to exploit this potential, this desire, this green initiative of many, many local governments. He's not here. Once again, I would like to stress this. It's mandatory. The Ministry will want to transfer the area, will consider the offer interesting from the interest of the Polish state, the local community, this area will. If he thinks it's unbelievable, he just won't do it. But today we are only talking about creating an opportunity to run a real green economy in the fields to reduce the size of wasteland, areas that are often referred to as "unwanted," or to use areas that are well predisposed to turn into attractive parts, to the glory of citizens, but also to the ministry. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u188	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There were no legislative proposals, right? Good. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Health. It is included in print No 331 and the committee's report In print No 331 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the joint legislative committee, the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. Oh, the senator's here. [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] Good. That's a report, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, a report on the draft law amending the Environmental Law and certain other laws. This report is contained in print No 331 S. The bill concerns regulations for improving air quality in Poland. The basic assumptions for this draft law are the use of 0,5% gross domestic product for air protection, creation of an air protection fund, tax write-off for persons who have changed the heat source to a low-carbon or zero-emission heat source. A greener supplement is also introduced to the housing allowance for persons who convert the heat source to low-carbon and who cannot afford to cover the costs associated with changing fuel to more expensive, e.g. For gas or electricity. Another amendment concerns grants to cover partially the costs of heat exchange or other processes related to reduction of emissions, such as thermomodernisation. Finally, it is a matter of authorising the municipal council to determine, by a resolution, i.e. under local law, a plan for the supply of heat, electricity, gas fuel. High Izbo, the level of pollution in Poland, is among the highest in Europe in Polish cities. In a group of the 50 most polluted cities, usually more than 30 are cities located in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Due to poor air quality in Poland, it dies every year, depending on the source of the data. From 40,000 to up to 90,000 people. Only in the so-called replacement part. Cinderella, which means furnaces, boilers, high-emission heat sources... There are about 3 million of them, as the Ministry estimates, so apparently Minister Kurtyka spoke yesterday at one of the TV stations. And only these investments, if you take into account the necessary amounts only in this part concerning the process of heat exchange and if you assume that the maximum amount of the grant for this purpose is PLN 30,000, as designed today in one of the priority programmes implemented by the National Environment Fund... It's easy to count: 37,000 times 3 million it's circa about 100 billion, roughly. And this is only one part of the action needed to carry out the entire process of fighting for clean air in the country. For this, other activities are needed, as already mentioned by me, the thermomodernization of objects, not only in the part concerning public buildings, but also residential buildings, and multi-family or single-family buildings. And here this kind of financial support is also needed. It is also about spending on low-carbon transport, especially in large urban agglomerations. Without this type of action, it will not be effective to fight low emissions, with smog in a very heavily urbanised area. Of course, in Poland it has been announced and the Clean Air programme operates. Let me remind you that Prime Minister Morawiecki announced in 2018 that in the next 10 years 103 billion PLN will be earmarked for this purpose. It's 2021, and I don't want to give you the number of applications, because that would be very wrong information, or what amounts they've been submitted for. I'll give you an amount that hasn't even been really realized, but the contracts signed are less than PLN 3 billion. Assuming that 103 billion zlotys are for 10 years, it is easy to calculate that we should really spend 10 billion zlotys each year, in a real way, on support in this dimension. We're a long way from that. Only 3, less than PLN 3 billion in signed contracts. In 2021, 0 PLN was allocated to the State budget for this purpose, while in the financial plan of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management the amount of 1 billion, probably 700 or 800 million... I don't remember anymore, but it doesn't matter much, because we're still far from the 10 billion I mentioned. Without serious, courageous action in this area, this problem will not be solved. The password isn't enough here. The issue of clean air, quality of life, the length of life of Poles can be treated by some as a political matter, but it is really a matter that concerns each of us, each Pole, each citizen of the Republic of Poland. I am therefore convinced that this action should be supported by all political forces not only verbally, formally, but actually, practically, otherwise it will not be possible to solve this problem. The draft law itself has been negatively assessed by the Minister of Climate and Environment, but has been very positively assessed by the representatives of local authorities participating in the discussion. In their view, it is a coherent, comprehensive, courageous project that hopes that not only the process of replacing heat sources alone, but also in the event of a shift to a much more cost-effective source, i.e. gas or electricity... People who cannot afford it will be able to receive support in this process. Therefore, on behalf of the committees mentioned by me, I request that this bill be adopted. No amendments were tabled to the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u190	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Stanisław Gawłowski to represent them. No questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński: Thank you very much...]] I'd ask you here. Minister Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, thank you for the report on this project. I am pleased that we all agree on the great challenge for Poland and how important the issue of improving air quality is. I have no doubt that joint action Not only in parliament, but also at the level of government and self-government They are key to improving air quality. I also agree with the President that we need comprehensive measures aimed not only at the thermomodernisation of buildings. This is also a matter of heating, and this is also a question of transport. We took such actions into account in the draft energy policy of Poland with a perspective until 2040. Here we take into account activities related to air quality, energy efficiency of buildings, heating. These are the main areas of intervention in the National Reconstruction Plan project, which is currently being discussed with the public. So I think there's full agreement between us. The reservations that I already made at the first reading of the project are partly due to the failure of certain provisions. I must stress here that these are reservations, which I only make on behalf of the climate ministry, because there is no government position on this matter. But since this project is virtually identical to a project that has already been discussed, the 2017 Sejm project, I suspect that the government would have the same position here. What's important about this project... Well, I'm skipping the quality issues of some regulations. The good records that appear here are already in our law. I'll mention, for example. about the alert levels that the President said at first reading that this is the main advantage of this project. Well, they've already been introduced in the climate minister's regulation. So I am not convinced that such regulations need to be introduced. Let me stress once again that I have important concerns about the limitation of the freedom of local governments. Some of the provisions proposed in this law restrict the freedom of local governments to spend money. The need to use these resources for the specific purposes set out in the Act will reduce the possibilities for local authorities to operate in other areas. Finally, I would also like to answer the questions that arise. Let me be more specific about what non-compliance with EU law I meant when I mentioned it at first reading. This is a non-compliance with Article. 7, which extends the catalogue of activities to which the auction revenue from the ETS may be allocated. This catalogue is set out in the Directive, and unfortunately we cannot go beyond what the Directive sets out in this regard. I am afraid that the extension of this catalogue would be contrary to EU law. As for this problem, I would like to go back to the important issue of air quality and say what the effects of the Clean Air programme are, the programme implemented by the government through various instruments, among others. priority programmes of the national fund, which are a key element here. I agree that we need to do even more and faster than we have done so far, and that is why we are gradually making improvements in these forms, shortening the processing period for applications. We see a very significant impact of these actions on the number of applications submitted and examined by the national fund. As long as we had 1,000 applications a week at the beginning of last year, we now have 3,000 applications a week. We also see the effects of these measures in terms of improving air quality, and we see fewer and fewer zones with overruns. And this is an incentive for us to continue our efforts, because there is really still much to do to achieve a satisfactory state of air quality in Poland. I believe that the clean air and other solutions that are being implemented by the government at the moment will enable us to achieve a satisfactory level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u192	Thank you, Minister. Stay still, as the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the government representative present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? There isn't. [[I do.]] Oh, is it? Good. Senator Swede. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u193	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you about a case like this. You were talking about a limitation, about the fact that this project restricts the freedom to spend resources of the local government, at this point it is about the EU funds that the local authorities will be able to spend. I would like to ask for more detail here, to clarify what this is all about, in particular, restricting the freedom to spend the resources of local governments. Are these EU measures that local authorities will be able to use in the new financial perspective to improve air quality?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u194	No, no, he goes here... Thank you for asking, Senator. This is about self-government resources. This project sets out specific tasks for local governments, which belong to the tasks of local authorities. Therefore, local authorities will have to give up funding for other activities in order to finance the activities that are set out in this Act. [[Can I have another one?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u195	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u196	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask you about the EU measures that we will be able to allocate to improving air quality in the new perspective 2021 and 2027. Could you give the minister a closer look at how much money it's gonna be, how much money it's gonna be? I know that the Ministry is currently preparing the National Plan for Reconstruction and it is indeed taking a lot of action, and there are many programmes in your department that are being prepared to improve air quality. So that I would ask you to give us an approximation of how much money this will be in the new financial perspective, if, of course, it is possible. If not, I will eventually ask for written information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u197	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u198	As far as the new financial perspective is concerned, these amounts are not yet settled at this stage, so I am not able to give the exact figures. As far as the National Reconstruction Plan is concerned, so-called. The RRF programme, the EU's post-COVID recovery programme, that is where we have put a lot of climate and environmental action, 37% of the resources will be allocated to climate and environmental activities, and a large part of these measures will be used precisely to improve air quality. The National Reconstruction Plan has more than EUR 3 billion specifically aimed at improving the energy efficiency of buildings, namely the Clean Air programme.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u199	Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński: Thank you.]] No further questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must answer so that there will be no confusion and confusion after the Minister's speech. I'm glad we have a common view of things that concern the fight for clean air. Minister, this bill is really an instrument for you. It is really an instrument that will allow you, as Minister and Government, to have a constitutional responsibility for matters that are just about fighting for clean air, about air protection, to have a tool, really have money. Because the biggest problem is the real lack of that money. You specifically referred to the article. 7 of the proposed law and said that it could violate the provisions concerning the directive. Well, Minister, even in your own writing, which you have addressed to us, you are listing the purposes for which the money from the implementation of the ETS Directive can be spent. I'll just read what you wrote in your own writing. Modernisation of generation units in the energy sector. Is changing the heat source a modernization of manufacturing units? There it is. The development of transmission and distribution networks, including district heating networks, is part of this, Minister. Improving energy efficiency, including in construction How he found it. Actions to ensure a fair transformation... Minister, well, it all fits in. I don't understand why you won't let me help you. Because I could refer to other records of this opinion that you have sent and which ends everywhere with a summary: we are negative. You don't want to let me help you. And I'm going to quote your boss, the Kurty's Minister from yesterday. He said something like this: until the last of us replace the worm, we're all going to breathe bad air. I agree with him. This is indeed a serious challenge. But with a budget of 1 billion or 2 billion a year for this purpose from public funds, this process will take 100, 150, 200 years from the state budget. This is really pretending that we want to solve this problem. We in the Senate are proposing not to pretend that the government has real instruments. We want to arm the government with real money, with serious amounts, because we know that this is one of the hardest and most important civilization challenges. It concerns all areas, not just environmental and air protection. It concerns economics, economy, health care, quality of life, life expectancy. Minister, I'm really asking you to help yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u201	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszard Śvilski and Senator Aleksander Szwed made their speeches in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill, this third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 321, and the committee's report In print No 321 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Marek Borowski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The project is short and quite simple. As we know, we have for some time been working with employees' capital plans, which have been introduced gradually. On this occasion, of course, there were many questions, various doubts from entrepreneurs, also employees, which, as a result of notabene, I learned, is that various kinds of explanations, answers to questions which are on the Internet, and are given by the Polish Development Fund, which coordinates these matters, have already reached 200 pages. So you can see clearly how complicated this bill is. And it's probably complicated that there's been some ambiguities about whether the employees of the parliamentary and senator offices were employed. There are, according to the impact assessment, around 1 000a 500 of them can join such plans. In this case, there were different views expressed by experts. It is a fact that, in general, there was a dominant view that a rule which excludes certain workers, unfortunately also includes staff from parliamentary and senatorial offices. We had a committee meeting on this, and there was a difference of opinion. The Ministry of Technology claimed that the provision, which is now sufficient, and the Ministry of the Family, also interested in this case, did, on the contrary, consider that such a law is necessary and solves this problem. A number of institutions are at stake here, which would have to assume that the current rules are sufficient, e.g. The Sejm and the Senate. After all, as we know, these funds that are paid under the plans are paid by both the employee and the employer, i.e. in this case by a Member or a Senator. From the funds he receives for the parliamentary or senator's office. So these things have to be settled. In conclusion, here's what I'm gonna say. However, the Commission considered that it would be useful and practical to clarify the matter without being suspended. It therefore proposes a minor change in one of the articles which will rule out doubts on this matter and allow these workers, of course, to those who want to... As we know very well, these plans are based on a voluntary basis. It is well known that anyone who joins them must reduce their income a little. After more than a year of making these records, their functioning, the percentage of employees who have decided to join the plans is relatively low, much lower than the one that was planned. But there's no reason to make it difficult for anyone, including our employees. However, these are our employees and we should take care of them. Therefore, this project recommends the attention of the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u203	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Marek Borowski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? You're welcome, Minister. Minister Grzegorz Piechowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u204	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the opinion of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, the current provisions of the Act on Employee Capital Plans also apply to employees of parliamentary offices, senators and clubs and circles. So that, in our view, there is no need for a change in this respect. Each Member or Senator, employing a person on the basis of a contract of employment, becomes an employer and therefore is subject to labour law and social security rules, as he pays pension, pension and accident contributions. It also becomes an employer within the meaning of the PPK Act. The whole concept of employee capital plans is based on ensuring that everyone can save for the future in the long term and thus build up capital that will become financial collateral for the time after the end of their professional activities. The principle of universality applies here, which means that every employee must be automatically enrolled in the PPK by his employer. The Minister of Family and Social Policy considered the proposed amendment to be correct, but in the last paragraph of his letter he pointed out that the draft law should be agreed with the Ministry of Finance, which initiated legislative work on the PPK Act. The Ministry of Finance was the drafter of this law and, of course, has an important voice in this case. At the same time, I would like to inform the High House that the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology consulted the Ministry of Finance and the PFR. To conclude, I would like to say that in our view this amendment is pointless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u205	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Alexander... There isn't, and I thought... I'm so used to it, Senator, you always ask questions that I just heard them. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much. No questions, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. And I'm already disappointed, Mr. Senator. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much to the representatives of the government. We move on to the next item on the agenda. I remind you that the 19th item, the second reading of the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of March events in Bydgoszcz, has already been considered. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the creators of the March Constitution of 1921. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 329, and the report in print No 329 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u206	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Let me get this straight. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: There you go, Mr. Senator.]] It's also easier for me to speak from this place for a pandemic. First, I would like to say a little bit about the initiative itself. I would like to thank Senator Wojciech Necessary that, as President of the Polish Socialist Party with me, he initiated this resolution, which was signed by other senators in the century of the March Constitution. For us it was so important that both the Polish Socialist Party and the Polish Socialist Party were those parties who contributed to the adoption of the Constitution 100 years ago. The draft submitted by us was examined by the Legislative Commission on 17 March, which is precisely in the century of the adoption of the March Constitution. I would like to say that both the drafting amendments and the entire draft resolution were adopted unanimously by the Legislative Commission. Attention has been drawn to something that, so to speak, is my mistake as one of the initiators of this resolution, namely that I did not collect signatures from representatives of all groups sitting in the Senate. Indeed, I apologize to the Senators of Law and Justice, and I admitted this at the committee meeting. However, I would like to thank you for your contribution to these technical and editorial amendments. One amendment was your Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, the other amendment was your Marshal Marek Borowski. As I say, they were adopted unanimously. Let me read the draft of this resolution. He is basically one-sounding with the text of the Seym Resolution, which was adopted on this occasion. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the celebration of the creators of the March Constitution of 1921. The Constitution adopted on 17 March 1921 by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, which in history passed as the constitution of March, referred to the legacy of the Constitution on 3 May. It was based on the achievements of European constitutional thought and practice, from which many innovative solutions were taken. The March Constitution was at that time one of the most democratic fundamental laws in the world. It was adopted as a result of a compromise reached between all political forces. She defended the interests of the citizens, guaranteeing the protection of life, freedom and wealth to all, regardless of origin, race, nationality, language or religion. The March Constitution was also an exceptional act because it marked the moment of the resurrection of the state after more than 100 years of captivity, the moment of reconstruction and the creation of the Republic of Poland and its modern society. For these reasons, the basic law of 1921 plays a special role in the Polish tradition and development of Polish constitutionalism. The Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses its greatest appreciation to the creators and defenders of the March Constitution on the 100th anniversary of its adoption. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. And once again, so to speak, pleading guilty that because of my mistake, not everyone in the Senate signed this resolution, I would like to say that a certain form of correction for this error was made. As Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, President of the Legislative Commission, said, I think it would be a unanimous adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u207	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Jan Filip Libicki. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Halina Bieda, Władysław Komarnicki, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Janusz Gromek and Alexander Szwed made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Before moving to the next item on the agenda, I shall manage the 10-minute technical interruption until 17.20. [[Break from 17 minutes 08 to 17 minutes 20]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution in connection with the 30th anniversary of the Visegrad Group. The draft resolution under consideration was submitted by the members of the Senate Bureau and is included in print No 344. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs and the senate circles, was included on the agenda without first reading. I ask the authorised representative of the applicant, Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski, to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The draft resolution, which we are presenting today to the High House, is related to the 30th anniversary of the Visegrad Group. It is an extremely important instrument of regional policy and geopolitics of the Republic of Poland since its very beginning in 1989, which is close cooperation with our obvious partners, who shared not only a place on the map with us, but also a place in the history of Europe, especially in recent years, those partners who also shared Bolshevik enslavement with us and chose with us a course for Europe, a course for freedom in 1989. As we know, in this cooperation in the Visegrad Group, apart from its political, economic, cultural dimension, the parliamentary dimension also plays an important role. We will not miss this anniversary discussion in our country and not only On the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the Visegrad Group The voice of the Polish Senate. And that's why I'm asking the ladies and gentlemen of the senators to adopt this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u209	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. I'm opening a discussion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u210	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At this Senate meeting we are considering a very important resolution related to the 30th anniversary of the Visegrad Group, in which, as it is written, from the perspective of 3 decades we appreciate the strength of our community, thanks to which we have gained protection of regional interests and international recognition. Our cooperation is a combination of historical and mentally close efforts in the past of similarly hard-experienced and similar visions and programmes of our own development. Since the early 1990s, the Central European countries have been aiming to integrate with the Euro-Atlantic structures and the European Union. It was then claimed that this convergence of foreign policy objectives, the similarity of historical experiences and geographical proximity predestined regional cooperation. The Visegrad Group has been bringing together 4 Central European countries since 15 February 1991, i.e. Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. The idea of its creation has been clearly defined. First of all, its activities were and continue to deepen cooperation between its countries, countries which combine not only neighbourhoods and similar geopolitical conditions, but also rich culture, unusual tradition and shared history. One of the main ideas for its creation was the need to build democratic structures and a free market economy. The declaration concluded between the presidents of the Visegrad Group has thus become the beginning of mutual work on many extremely important levels, such as, among others, ensuring the expansion of transport infrastructure or the systematic strengthening of energy security. Its uniqueness is enhanced by the constant, unfailing involvement of numerous actors, among others. presidents, prime ministers, ministers, parliamentarians and government, non-governmental and other institutions. As a parliamentarian myself, I had the honour to cooperate in the previous one and I have the honour to cooperate in the current term of office of the upper chamber within the framework of the bilateral Polish-Slovak and Polish-Hungarian groups and to preside during the current term of office of the Senate Polish-Czech Group. Cooperation within the Visegrad Group has tangible benefits for us both at international and regional level, where it is important to emphasise very good cooperation between our local authorities, so as to reach for EU funds in cross-border cooperation and to organise a number of cultural and sporting events. The Visegrad Group is an exceptional form of regional cooperation incorporated into the political architecture of Central and Eastern Europe. For centuries, she and I have had a history together. Now we have very good cooperation in many fields. As stated in the resolution, on the 30th anniversary of the inauguration of Visegrad cooperation, we express our highest respect for the achievements of our countries, societies and parliaments and declare the continuation of efforts to integrate and develop our community. I fully support this draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u211	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u212	In 1991 the Visegrad Group began its activities. She didn't come out of anything. It was the result of contacts between the democratic opposition from the time before August '80. She was built at meetings of members of the Workers' Defence Committee and Czechoslovak Charter 77 at the Polish-Czechoslovak border in Sudety. She came from contacts of the Polish democratic opposition with representatives of the forming opposition in Hungary. In 1991, there was a natural transition to action in a completely different situation in which these people, previously pursued, arrested for these contacts, and such situations took place in Czechoslovakia, as those who created a new system, a new democratic state in the region, returned to the idea of cooperation. There were contacts, friendships, earlier there were discussions and determination that we had to achieve such regional cooperation, because we had similar historical, similar problems, and political, and economic experiences, we were also in one system, which was called a socialist system and was subject to the Soviet Union. I would like to remind you that this cooperation was initiated by three people: by Václav Havel, by József Antall from Hungary and by Lech Wałęsa. Of these three, two are dead, but we must remember that their openness to regional contacts has led to the construction of a group of countries that are still functioning today and still play a positive role in our region and in the European Union. But it must also be said that apart from the community, in addition to the common objectives, which were clear above all at the beginning of the 1990s, there are also differences at this moment, such as differences with Russia, even in relation to the organisation of this part of Europe within the European Union. But this is important and we need to maintain these contacts. I believe that these contacts will serve Poland in the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Władysław Komarnicki made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm managing a 15-minute break. During this break, a meeting of the Senior Convention will be held by the Senate Marshal. Thank you. Time-out to 5:45. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 30 to 18 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u214	I'm reopening the session. I ask you, at the moment, to consider item twenty-second of the agenda, but it will not be because Minister Buda, who was appointed by Prime Minister Morawiecki to present information to the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of preparation for the mobilisation of the European Union's Fund for Reconstruction (Next Generation EU) and who has been here twice, because he will not come in the committee meeting, and in plenary proceedings, today, despite our attempts to persuade him, also with the help of the Senators of the Law and Justice Club. This situation is unacceptable. This situation is unprecedented. Especially since the government, trying to find a majority for ratification of the agreement with the European Union, should pay particular attention to the opposition, and especially to the Senate, where the Sejm opposition has a majority. If you want to get someone to accept the idea, you have to convince them. And that's what this point was meant to be. The absence of the Prime Minister's representative makes this point unobtrusive at the moment. I will write a letter to Prime Minister Morawiecki, expressing deep disapproval for such an approach. Because if we knew from the beginning that there wouldn't be anyone from the ministry, from KPRM, then I wouldn't have entered this point. However, it was yesterday that he was to take place. That's it. You have to use a gentle word. That's ridiculous. I will therefore move this item to the next meeting. I will write a letter to Prime Minister Morawiecki, this time trying to persuade him to attend personally. Reflections on why KPRM's representative, Minister Buda, did not want to share this information with us, I leave to you, although the reflection is pressing, that maybe this plan is still in such a powder that there is nothing to present. But we're already entering speculation here. However, in view of this situation, the point will not be reached today. He'll be transferred to the next Senate meeting. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u215	Mr. Marshal made the right decision. We can't listen to this information from someone who's not here. But at the same time, I owe the High House information about what happened at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, where we discussed this point. And I also think that the other chairmen of the committee who discussed this point could pass this report. Therefore, if the marshal considers it appropriate, we are at the disposal of the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u216	At the Senior Convention meeting, we agreed that this whole point I hope that in the presence of representatives of the NAP, or not It will be held at the next meeting. I don't want to distract it, because that's what we'd say to ourselves. Therefore, this point will not be discussed now, it is being transferred. It's 6:05. Administration, service of the Senate Labour Office is ready to prepare votes and carry out the final point: changes in the membership of Senate committees. We're adjourned until 6:45 p.m. Then the vote will take place. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 06 to 18 minutes 45]] I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 14th, 15th and 16th April 2021. The order of this meeting will, of course, be provided to you by electronic means. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senatorial Affairs on this matter is included in print No 353. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u217	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Let me get this straight. Thank you. The Rules of Procedure Committee on Ethics and Senators' Affairs at its meeting on 24 March, on the basis of Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, she dismissed Senator Mariusz Gromka from the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, Senator Ewa Matecka from the Committee on Culture and Media and Senator Wojciech Ziemiak from the Committee on the Environment. On the basis of the same article of the Senate Rules of Procedure, the committee elected Senator Mariusz Gromka to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Ewa Matecka to the Legislative Commission and Senator Wojciech Ziemniak to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u218	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 Senators voted, 92 in favour, no one opposed, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 6]] We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Customs Law and certain other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Senate Print Act No 334 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. N.B.: Amendments 1 and 9 should be voted together. These amendments eliminate the suggestion that a decision to refuse an alert is issued in a different procedure than an alert procedure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 2 harmonises the wording of similar provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 3 adds the missing provision which specifies under which circumstances the competent authority will issue a decision to refuse entry in the list of customs agents. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One more senator from the remote voters... Check if the voice has been sent. Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 4 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] N.B.: Amendments 5 and 7 should be voted on together. These amendments correlate substantively the same provisions on fuel levy and issue fee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 6 adapts the terminology of the legislation to the Civil Records Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 8 clarifies the scope of the cases referred to in the Regulation and eliminates language error. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Customs Law and certain other laws. We are returning to the second agenda: the Law amending the Banking Law and some other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment of Senate printing No 332 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 Senators voted, 95 in favour, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 15]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Banking Law and some other laws. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the law amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act and some other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to Law No 333 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 seeks to identify the obliged real estate broker in accordance with Directive 2015/849 and to exclude intermediaries involved in the conclusion of a real estate lease agreement where the monthly rent is set at less than the equivalent of EUR 10 000. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 2 seeks to complete the amendment order to indicate the paragraph to which the amendment relates. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 3 seeks to maintain the consistency of the proposed provisions in the way they refer to the tax identification number. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 4 seeks to maintain the consistency of the proposed provisions in the way in which the register of traders is referred to in the National Court Register. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 5 seeks to ensure that each real estate broker, including a separate legal entity and an organizational unit not having legal personality, bears the same responsibility for carrying out activities in breach of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Anti-Money Laundering Act and the financing of terrorism and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 335 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of 2 committees, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on the conclusions... These are the ones that we discussed at the committee meeting today, the twenty-five, tabled during the debate on 24 March on the Law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. I would like to present to the High House the following position: The High Senate is ready to adopt the proposal contained in the table in point I, i.e. supported by the committee by a proposal to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, the secretary in room 217 says Senator Robert Dowhan has asked for the floor. He wants to speak on his amendment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u220	That's right, because right now there's a point... Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? The candidates were Senator Robert Dowhan and Senator Marek Borowski and Senator Ryszard Świlski from the Committee on Budget and Finance and Senator Jacek Bogucki from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Please, Senator Dowhan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u221	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to make a request, i.e. report the withdrawal of one of my amendments, Amendment 28.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u222	Thank you very much. I would remind you that Senator Robert Dowhan withdrew his 2 conclusions in print 335 Z at the point II, Nos 3 and 4, and now Amendment 28. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? I don't see any calls. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 96 senators voted, 45 for, 51 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Would you like me to read them? I'm asking because they're pretty long. [[Voice from the room: No.]] Note: Amendments 1 and 19 must be voted together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 97 senators, 51 votes against, 45 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 2 corrects the reference to the incorrect provision of the European Union legal act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 53 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 3 is withdrawn. Amendment 4 is withdrawn. N.B.: Amendments 5 and 8 must be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Senator Klein is voting? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 50 for, 45 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 9 seeks to modify the erroneous reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes for, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 26]] Amendments 10 and 11 will be voted together. They shall adjust the provisions authorising the issuing of the relevant implementing acts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 27]] N.B.: Amendments 12 and 23 should be voted on together. They are editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 43 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 28]] Note: Amendments 13, 14, 15, 18, 21 and 27 must be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 50 for, 44 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 16 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted in favour, 51 against, 44 against, two abstentions. [[Voting No 30]] Note: Amendments 17, 22 and 24, 25, 26 must be voted on together. They aim to ensure that the Act enters into force on 1 July 2021 and not on 1 May 2021. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted in favour, 51 against, 44 against, two abstentions. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 20. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Marshal Blanket? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted in favour, 51 against, 43 against, three abstentions. [[Voting No 32]] Amendments 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26 have already been voted together, and so has Amendment 27. We've got Amendment 28 left... [[Voice out of the O.R.: Retreated.]] ...which is withdrawn, as they rightly tell me. We are therefore voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 84 for, 11 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 33]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the law amending the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment took place at the time of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject, which is in print No 340 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Bober, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Environment Committee, I would like to recommend to the High House the adoption of a law amending the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law and certain other laws without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u224	Thank you very much. Your conclusions were made during the discussion by Senator Aleksander Pociej. In addition, Senator Zdzisław Pupa was the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Are you... Good. Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 77 for, 9 against, 11 abstentions. [[Voting No 34]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment took place during the discussion and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 342 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Janusz Błucher, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment. These committees discussed today the proposals made on 24 March 2021 in the course of the debate on the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and on certain other laws and present the following position to the High Senate. The High Senate is ready to accept the proposal set out in point I, i.e. the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u226	Thank you very much. Do the Senator or Senator rapporteur still want to speak? [[No, thank you.]] Senator Tadeusz Kopeć submitted his conclusions during the discussion. In addition, Senator Janusz Błucherz was the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, supported by joint committees, to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I ask you to make the results of the vote vulnerable. There were 96 senators voted, 42 for, 53 against, and 1 senator abstained. [[Voting No 35]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 introduces a legal tool for bodies, courts and investors in the amended law to prevent abuse and pathological attempts to extend procedures and block investment processes in a non-constructive and unjustified manner by environmental organisations. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: Against, against.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, five against, 92 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 36]] Please note that amendments 2, 5, 8, 10, 11 and 12 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 53 for, 42 against, and 1 senator abstained. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 52 votes against, 42 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 97 senators, 54 votes against, 42 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 6 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 95 senators, 55 votes against, 38 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 95 senators, 53 votes against, 41 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 41]] So we'll proceed. Was there a vote on Amendment 9 or... [[Voice from the room: No, now...]] Now there's Amendment 9. She's deleting an unnecessary part of the recipe. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 54 votes against, 39 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 42]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 95 senators, 91 votes against, 3 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 43]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the law amending the Road Transport Act. The Infrastructure Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate printing No 336 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 44]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Road Transport Act. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law amending the Rail Transport Act. The Committee on Infrastructure has presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Senator's Law No 338 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 complements the provision authorising the issuing of an implementing act for a delegation to determine the scope of the technical documentation attached to the EC declaration of verification of the subsystem. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 3 completes the missing reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 48]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 49]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no discipline either.]] A meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is in print No 337 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Arthur Dunin, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I would like to inform you that the Committee on Infrastructure has adopted Amendments 2, 7, 10, 12, 14 and 15 and 16 amendments have been tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u228	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Artur Dunin, Senator Jacek Bury and Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka submitted their conclusions during the discussion. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. N.B.: Amendments 1 and 9 should be voted together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendments 2, 10 and 11. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 4 for, 90 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 50]] Amendments 2 and 10 propose that drivers of electric scooters and other vehicles and mobility aids should be able to move at a speed adapted to the conditions of movement when the Act allows them to ride on pavements and pedestrian roads. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 51 votes 43 against and one senator abstained. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 3 aims to increase from 20 km/h to 25 km/h the maximum permissible speed at which they can travel on the road or road for electric scooters and personal transport equipment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-four senators voted, seven votes, 86 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 52]] Note: Amendment 4 will rule out voting on Amendment 5. Amendment 4 aims to allow electric scooters to move on roads where traffic is permitted at a speed of up to 50 km/h and on the sidewalks which are situated along a roadway where traffic is permitted at a speed of more than 50 km/h and the pavement is sufficiently wide. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-four senators voted, four votes for, 87 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 5 sets out exceptional cases where electric scooters are entitled to move on a road where traffic is permitted at a speed of up to 50 km/h. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 94 senators voted, 47 against, 43 against, and four senators abstained. [[Voting No 54]] N.B.: Amendments 6 and 13 should be voted together. These amendments increase from 10 to 14 years the minimum age for driving electric scooters. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-four senators voted, eight votes, 85 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 55]] N.B.: Amendments 7 and 15 should be voted together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendment 8. These amendments seek to amend the rules for dealing with improperly parked electric scooters, without removing them and charging parking fees for the introduction of an obligation to move them or to treat them as found goods. This will exclude the obligation for the county council to adopt resolutions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 47 in favour, 44 against, 4 senators abstained. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 8 will therefore not be put to the vote. Amendment 11 is also excluded. Amendment 12 entitles the road manager to plan and carry out the lighting of hiking passes or trips for cyclists provided that he finances these works. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 44 were in favour, 6 against, 47 abstained. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 14 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 95 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 58]] Amendment 16 extends the date of entry into force of the Act from 30 to 60 days. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 votes for, 45 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 59]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 60]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on road traffic and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National census of population and housing in 2021. A meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 339 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Commission of the Territorial Government and State Administration at its meeting on 24 March 2021 considered the proposals submitted on 24 March 2021 in the course of a debate on the Law amending the National Census of Population and Housing Act in 2021. Four amendments were tabled. All these amendments were adopted unanimously by the High Commission: 7 Senators were in favour, no one abstained, no one opposed. This is the position of the committee I am presenting to the High Senate and ask for the bill to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u230	Thank you very much, senator. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 aims to maintain the current rules for granting allowances and prizes to census accounts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 55 for, 41 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 61]] Attention, amendments 2, 3 and 4 should be voted on together. Those amendments provide that the Act will enter into force on the day following the date of its publication, except for the provisions concerning the dissemination of programmes popularising the census, which will enter into force on 1 May 2021. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 62]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 95 in favour, no one opposed, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 63]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law on education and certain other laws. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments of Senate printing No 341 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 64]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law "Educational Law" and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 343 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The Commission requests the adoption of 3 amendments tabled and adopted by the Commission as well as the whole of the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u232	Thank you very much. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 seeks to eliminate doubts as regards the amount of the monthly compensatory benefit threshold. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 65]] Amendment 2 provides that, in the event of exemption from the social assistance fee, a member of the corps of veterans fighting for independence of the Republic of Poland, an anti-communist opposition activist or a politically repressed person will be charged to the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 55 for, 42 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 66]] Amendment 3 also provides for the possibility for insured persons whose initial capital, pension or invalidity pension is to be fixed between the basic date of entry into force of the Act and 1 June 2021. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 95 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 67]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 68]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on activists of the anti-communist opposition and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions and the Legislative Commission have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Senate Act No 330 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Attention, amendments 1 and 3 should be voted on together. They aim to remove from the Act all amendments except for one new deadline for bringing an emergency complaint against final judgments terminating proceedings in cases which have become final after the entry into force of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 50 for, 46 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 69]] Amendment 2 extends to 6 years the time limit for lodging an emergency complaint against final judgments terminating proceedings in cases which have become valid after 17 October 1997. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 votes for, 45 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 70]] Do we have an amendment 4 or 5? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. [[Voice from the room: But one more.]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[What? There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: She was already...]] [[Voice from the room: 1 to 5...]] There are amendments 1, 2 and 3. [[Yes, sir.]] There's no more. [[Only 3.]] We therefore proceed to vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 71]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Beings. The Health Commission has presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Senate Act No 351 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendments 1, 3, 4 and 5 should be voted on together. If you don't mind, I won't be reading because the justification is very long. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Dunin is voting? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 53 for, 43 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 72]] Amendment 2 concerns the identification of persons who, in addition to the doctor, will be entitled to carry out a qualifying examination in order to exclude contraindications to the vaccination against COVID-19. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 73]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 95 for, 1 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 74]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Beings. We are back to discuss item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the Cohesion and Development Agency. After the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 320 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u233	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 24 March, three joint committees were held: the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration. The Commission has examined three amendments. Of these 2 amendments adopted an amendment concerning the publication in the Public Information Bulletin and the second amendment concerning the change of name of one of the financial instruments of the European Union. The third amendment, concerning the rejection of the project in its entirety, was rejected by the committees. Please accept the report.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u234	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur want to speak yet? I would like to remind you that during the second reading, proposals of a legislative nature were tabled by senators Jerzy Czerwiński and Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. In addition, Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski was the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? I don't see any volunteers. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the draft law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments in the order of the provisions of the draft. Following the vote on the amendments tabled, we will proceed with the vote on the adoption of the draft 'Print No 320 S' in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Attention, we are voting on Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's motion to reject the draft law on the Cohesion and Development Agency. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 45 were in favour, 50 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 75]] In view of the rejection of the motion for rejection of the bill, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 clarifies the ways in which competitions for posts on the Agency's management board and agency staff are communicated. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 76]] Amendment 2 adapts the name of the financial resources to the current title of the Union Regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 50 votes against, 45 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 77]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 50 votes against, 45 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 78]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law on the Cohesion and Development Agency and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury. I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading will only cover the vote. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No. 308 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 51 for, 1 against, 44 senators abstained. [[Voting No 79]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a draft law amending the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury and adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 331 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Stanisław Gawłowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft Act on the amendment of the Environmental Law and certain other laws and the draft resolution on the introduction of this draft Act to the Sejm presented by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 Senators voted, 50 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 80]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Stanisław Gawłowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 321 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Marek Borowski to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law presented by the committees on the amendment of the Act on Employee Capital Plans and the draft resolution on the submission of this bill to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 50 for, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 81]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a bill amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Marek Borowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the discussion of the 20th agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the creators of the March Constitution in 1921. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and that a discussion has been held. We proceed with the third reading, which will only cover the vote. I remind you that the Legislative Commission requests the Senate to adopt a uniform draft resolution in print No 329 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 94 in favour, no one opposed, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 82]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the celebration of the creators of the Constitution of March 1921. We return to the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution in connection with the 30th anniversary of the Visegrad Group. I would like to remind you that a draft resolution has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed with the third reading, which will only cover the vote. I remind you that the draft resolution is included in print No 344. We proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. Who's in favour? Turn on the apparatus, please. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 83]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the 30th anniversary of the Visegrad Group. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the twenty-second Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Please draw up a list of senators willing to make statements. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Magdalena Kochan will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. But before I make this statement, I want to wish all my colleagues a healthy and happy Christmas, because this is the last meeting before them... [[Applause]] Thank you. ...with an emphasis on health, although we're sure to be lucky too. [[Talking in the O.R.]] High Izbo, the statement and the questions I'm sending to the Minister of Finance, whom I'd like to remind... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...that according to the wording of the article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on Public Benefit... [[Please keep your conversations down.]] ...and about volunteering, the tax payer of personal income tax may transfer 1% a tax for the benefit of a public benefit organisation of its choice. I would like to say that in 2020, after the year 2019 has been settled... I would be very grateful to Senators Kleina and Gawlowski if they didn't bother me because I can't hear myself think. Thank you very much. ...for this reason, taxpayers transferred PLN 907 million to NGOs providing assistance to many in need. But 57 million, nearly 57 million didn't go to the recipients. And I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance why he didn't give the money to the designated organisation, which is 1%. He wanted to donate his own tax to the taxpayer. Why didn't they reach the account he indicated? Did the taxpayer know that his message was not done according to his will? Did the beneficiary of this amount know that this was not the case and why this money was not transferred to the correct account? What was the amount of the non-payment according to the taxpayer's will for the years 2016 and 2019? Speaking of 2016, I mean the tax settlement for the previous year. Why doesn't this money go to the beneficiaries, what's the reason? Who checks it and who decides that 1% The tax I pointed out in my tax return won't go to my recipient? What are the criteria for refusing this action? And one last question. Has the Council of Public Benefits been notified of this fact? Does he know which organizations do not receive these transfers? Does the Council of Public Interests know the reasons for not doing so and have it accepted the manner in which it refused to do so? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u236	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Wczyła will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The statement is addressed to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr. Mark Gróbarczyk. Dear Minister, I am concerned about the information that may indicate that solutions that may be hostile to water tourism have been applied to the construction of the channel by measuring it. The concreteisation of the quay edge on the west side indicates that the quay will be 2.5 m high above sea level. This excludes the safe berthing of sports and tourist units for which the appropriate height should not exceed 1 m above sea level. Please inform whether the investor envisages lowering the quay or using mooring bridges allowing safe access to the shore. Are there parking spaces for motor and sailing units waiting to open the road to the airlock or seeking shelter in the event of a breakdown of weather at sea or Vistula flood or for crews forced to go ashore for various reasons? One of the important functions of the channel is to have a positive impact not only on the development of water transport, but also on the development of water tourism in the Vistula reservoir area. The local authorities involved multimillion-dollar measures for the development of tourism infrastructure on the Vistula River and in its immediate surroundings, expecting an increase in demand for water tourism after the execution of the canal by measuring. It is therefore so important that the construction of the channel takes into account the needs of this user group and creates friendly and safe conditions for the use of the channel. I hope that the signaled risks are perceived by the investor and there are countermeasures. However, if this is not the case, please take these points into account. Please respond to these comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u238	Thank you very much, Senator, Senator Ewa Matecka will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk. For a long time, residents have been reporting to my senator's office waiting unsuccessfully for the state to buy land as part of the construction of the Monastery Monastery Monastery reservoir on the River Prośno. Since the receipt of this project, the local government authorities and the transfer of Polish Waters to the State Waters Government without the necessary financial resources have been completely paralyzed by the activities related to preparatory work and the legal situation of the areas located in the skull and around the planned vessel. The effect is now to halt land buy-out and to block the development opportunities of many individual farms for several years. The hopes were revived, however, when the Polish Waters put the construction of the Monastery Monastery Monastery reservoir at the head of the list of priorities reported under the National Plan for Reconstruction. The project was ideally included in the task of supporting sustainable water management in areas outside agglomerations, as well as increasing the resilience of cities and their functional areas to climate change, and as such deserved to be taken into account. However, the government decided to reject this list of priorities in its entirety, thereby destroying the actions of many involved in this issue of persons and institutions. The current state of legal suspension is unacceptable and contradicts the principles of social justice. I'm not talking about the idea of sustainable development anymore. The Retention Tank Wielkieś Klasztorna has been an expected investment for years, which will not only help to organize water management in the area of 3 powiats: Ostrowski, Kalisz and Ostrzeszowski, but above all will increase the level of safety of residents. This is both about security in terms of protection against natural disasters and about legal and economic stability, which are crucial for the development of agriculture and the food industry in this area. I therefore ask the following questions. When and in what shape does the government intend to return to the work related to the Monastery Monastery Monastery Monastery Tank? Does the project have a chance to return to the KPO's priority list? And if not, is there any real time perspective at all for the mobilisation of funds for this purpose from another pool? The situation fires from month to month and the owners of the blocked holdings do not receive any form of support. I therefore call for urgent intervention in this matter. I make this statement on behalf of myself and of Senator Janusz Błucherz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u240	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! My statement, more of a protest, more of a complaint, is addressed to the Minister of Justice, Minister Zbigniew Ziobra. Today's information was provided by the people of my hometown, Wałbrzych, and also by President Wałbrzych. We as parliamentarians have been informed that in our city, the Department of Labour will be liquidated in the District Court in Wałbrzych. This protest, my opposition, is also supported by Members, Mr Tomasz Siemoniak and Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock. Well, Minister, we do not know the reasons for such a decision, the decision to abolish the Department of Labour at the Wałbrzych District Court, and unfortunately we think that this is an unreasonable decision, and we do not fully agree with it. We remind only that Wałbrzych is the second largest city in Lower Silesia, and from this District Court, not only residents of Wałbrzych, but also residents of the neighbouring communities benefit from the possibility to deal with cases there. At the moment they will be deprived of this possibility and will be forced to travel to a distance from Wałbrzych, especially from those municipalities that are around Wałbrzych, Świdnica. Let me just remind you that not only the city of Wałbrzych, but the wójtów and the mayors of the communes managed to do everything possible to communicate the city of Wałbrzych with the district of Wałbrzych. We've made a huge effort, we've renovated roads, the Wałbrzych ring road is being built. Recently it was also made available to residents, especially those arriving in Wałbrzych, Wałbrzych Centrum railway station. The surrounding villages, neighborhoods, were communicated with Wałbrzych, so that we could use offices that are centralised together and are located in Wałbrzych. Wałbrzych brings together all the offices It's a city office, county old town. There's also the Social Insurance Institution, the DA's office or the district court. Another argument that froze us... The pandemic time we face is the worst time to make such a decision. The inhabitants of Wałbrzych and the neighbouring communities will have to reach Świdnica, i.e. approx. 20 to 40 km, and unfortunately there is no organized collective communication. This will result in additional efforts by the inhabitants, which will lead to an increased risk of infection with this disease in the days of the pandemic of Coronavirus. Minister, let me ask you again about the arguments that the Minister was making when you decided to transfer the Department of Labour Law from the Wałbrzych District Court to Świdnica, and I will ask for your answer. I just want to remind you that at the moment when you were undertaking judicial reform, and we were pointing out arguments and we were talking about the fact that it was only for the politicisation of the judiciary, the Minister's argument was that this reform would only serve the people. Unfortunately, the inhabitants of Wałbrzych will literally and tangiblely learn what judicial reform is like. The Department of Labour Law at the Wałbrzych District Court will be closed down and the residents themselves will find that false arguments were that judicial reform would serve the inhabitants. There isn't, and there can't be our consent. We hope that the Minister will hear not so much the voices of the parliamentarians, but, above all, the voices of the inhabitants of Wałbrzych and the neighbouring communities, and will withdraw from this incomprehensible, completely meaningless and unexplainable decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u242	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Alexander Swed will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to address my statement to the Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mrs Marleny Maląg. Dear Minister, The Active self-government programme, implemented for years by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, is aimed at people with disabilities as well as to district authorities. This appropriation is intended to cover tasks specifically linked to the support of persons with disabilities. Therefore, they enjoy information from the Ministry about the record budget this year for the Active Local Government programme. In view of the numerous requests made to my senator's office by representatives of county authorities as well as by people with disabilities themselves, I ask you to provide information on the areas of support for people with disabilities that will receive funding in 2021 and on the amount of disability that will be required when applying for support in particular areas and what the programme in the Leedoniów, Kłodzki and Ząbkowicki districts in the Dolnośląskie Voivodeship in 2020 looked like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u244	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am sending my statement to the Minister of Infrastructure. Before Poland a very serious challenge and at the same time a huge opportunity, connected with the construction of windmills at sea, offshore. This requires appropriate preparation both in the legislative, formal and legal part as well as in the financial and technical part. Parliament recently adopted a bill to support these so-called investments, but at the same time it is necessary to support the preparation of seaports for them to be on the one hand the facilities for the construction of these windmills, and on the other hand they were the facilities for servicing installations already built directly at sea. It is said that there is a total of PLN 130.160 billion in this first stage. In fact, these ports, which could be a base for construction, are Gdansk, Gdynia or Świnoujście, but unfortunately I am convinced that in each of these ports little is happening at the moment. In turn, the Danish government has already appointed a proxy to deal with investments in the Polish economic zone. Unfortunately, in Poland in this case there are still only announcements, and there are no real, real actions. So I'm asking the Minister. and please provide full information in this regard. What investment activities are planned in Polish ports, activities that will serve to enable these ports to provide support for investments related to the construction of windmills at sea. I ask for very precise information on which port, what inputs and what actions. Please also provide information about service ports. Here, in turn, ports on the Central Coast from Kołobrzeg, through Darłowo, Ustka, Head, to Władysławowo, have such possibilities. So I would also like to know what investment expenditures the government plans in these ports to actually get from there every day... There are talk of hundreds of ships that can sail to service windmills at sea. The point is, if these ports can be secured, they can operate the back room. This is a really big civilization opportunity. The government must create opportunities for these ports to grow. The government must take appropriate investment measures, because it will be unfortunate when windmills at sea are built from Danish ports. The Danish state will make money on this, they will earn Danish ports, unfortunately with a loss for Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u246	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Janusz Bleacher will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u247	My statement is addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister for Development, Work and Technology, Mr Jarosław Gowin, and Mr Michał Kurtyki, Minister of Climate and Environment. Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! I ask kindly for information on the state of work on the amendment of the so-called law. distance, limiting the possibility of construction of wind farms on land in Poland. The 2016 Act introducing rigid rules for the placement of wind farms at an appropriate distance from buildings, i.e. In fact, the 10H principle prevented the construction of these farms, and in the municipalities which had previously been authorised to build them on the basis of the provisions in force prior to the amendment, it led to dramatic situations which precluded the setting up of single-family homes in many localities. I make my statement on the canvas of the last protests of the inhabitants of several localities and towns of Nowe Skalmierzyce in the Ostrów district in the Wielkopolskie Voivodeship. Turns out, among other things. For three 182 m high wind turbines, decisions of the mayor of the municipality and the city of Nowe Skalmierzyce on environmental conditions were issued in 2012, with construction conditions also in 2012 and a permit for construction of the Ostrowski Old Town of 30 September 2015. In recent weeks preparatory work has begun to start the construction of wind turbines in Kotowiecko and Głóski and this has caused violent protests of the local community. So far, the environmental impact zones of turbines, resulting from the development of building permits up to 500 m, have not conflicted with the construction. The current mayor of the municipality and the city of Nowe Skalmierzyce, Mr Jerzy Walczak, has only been in office since the local elections in 2018, so the protests of the inhabitants surprised him deeply, but also concerned him in the context of the development opportunities of the area. At the same time, after examining the situation from the point of view of the former President of Kalisz I served as a co-initiator of the Kalisz-Ostrów agglomeration in 2002-2014, for which the Marshal of Wielkopolska voivodship allocated funds within the framework of integrated territorial investments, I think it would be wrong if a black development hole was created in the middle of this area between Kalisz and Ostrów Wielkopolski. I also have no doubt that similar situations as those described above are being faced in many localities in the country, hence the request to speed up the work on amending the distance bill and at the same time to postpone the deadline for the adoption of local spatial planning plans so that public consultations at the planning stage can take place without undue haste and that residents have access to full information about the planned investments. I also make my statement on behalf of Senator Eve Matecka. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u248	Thank you very much, Senator. Short supplement Mr. Senator Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u249	Yes, Mr. Marshal. I would just like to add that I made my statement on behalf of my own and Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Because, in fact, matters relating to maritime affairs are in the lively interest of Senator Kleina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-25-senat-22-2.u250	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The twenty-second sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] And thank you all for your good work. [[Meeting adjourned at 20 minutes 32]]
