ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u1	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I request that you proceed immediately to the information provided by the Prime Minister in the light of the cameras, in full disclosure. [[Oh...]] You want to cover your own incompetence. [[Applause]] [[Shame.]] You want to cover the fact that all of Poland is laughing or trembling... [[You'd be ashamed.]] ...reading the correspondence that flows... [[Who do you work for?]] ...from your mailboxes every day. You want to hide incompetence and embarrassment. [[On whose orders are you saying that?]] You have a Deputy Prime Minister for Security Affairs, and I think there is no doubt in Poland that he is dealing with everything, but not the safety of Poles and Poles. [[Applause]] You used telescopic sticks against Polish women. You wanted to use the army if the protests weren't your way. [[Voice from the hall: Who fired at the miners?]] [[Bożen Borys-Raccoon: You fired at the miners.]] And tonight you're doing this picnic festival. Trying to hide it, pretending to care about your safety. This is an e-mail issue because you can't use e-mail. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] And you want to keep Poles safe? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u2	Thank you, sir. [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Is this a formal conclusion?]] [[It's up to the Confederation.]] You know very well that this proposal will be voted on, so this is not a proposal that I can put to the vote. I'm in charge of... We're still on the news. [[Mr. Prime Minister, you'll be in touch.]] [[Mr. Prime Minister, why don't we send an e-mail?]] I ask for messages from the secretary of the Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u3	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 14, - Culture and means of communication jointly with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 14, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 3:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u4	Thank you. I hereby order you to leave the Chamber of Sejm, Kuluar and Gallery and prepare the premises for the deliberations on the resolution of the application for the adoption of the confidential deliberations of the Sejm and the deliberations of the Sejm classified. I would like to remind you that, in order to confirm the presence of the secret part of the meeting, one of the two additional one-sounding letters placed at the entrances to the cockroaches should be signed. I'm ordering an adjournment until noon. 12. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 mins 12 h 13 min 05]] [[Secret sittings of the Sejm]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 15 hours 15 min 47]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 5 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question will be asked by Members Joanna Borowiak, Lidia Burzyńska, Zbigniew Chmielowiec and Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice. The question is about the development of voluntary fire and government support units for CSR for fire protection tasks. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak. [[Excuse me, I have to put my card in.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Anyone who wants to ask a question in their place has to put the card in the reader, okay? Is the Member ready yet? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Volunteer firefighters are a very important wing of fire protection in Poland, and local CSR units are a kind of security buffer for community residents in which they operate. Volunteer firefighters are always in the right place and in the right time, ready to help put out fires, save lives and property. It can be said that voluntary firefighters are an important nerve when it comes to fire protection throughout the country. The Law and Justice Government shall support the functioning of voluntary fire services in the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles, the fitting-out of units, the transfer of funds to the necessary equipment and the repair of the repair. The opposition has already announced several times the end of the voluntary fire brigade under the rule of Law and Justice. Minister! What does it look like from today's perspective? How much equipment was transferred to CSR in Poland? What financial resources have been allocated to support operational units? What measures have been taken by the government to enable volunteer firefighters to bring God's help to glory, to benefit people? And one more thing: how do firefighters, fellow volunteers evaluate government support? Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] [[How did you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u6	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Maciej Wąsik to answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u7	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Government appreciates the great role that voluntary firefighters play in carrying out their fire protection tasks. The government is taking numerous steps to improve the level of equipment and training of these units and to ensure that their activities are financed from the State budget. Due to the inclusion in 2017 of these units in the Programme of Modernization of the Police, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Services, the amount of funds received by TSOs from the State budget was gradually increasing, reaching almost PLN 200 million in 2020 - exactly 198 590 thousand. zł. The amount of funds that were made available to TSOs allowed for a noticeable increase in their standards and equipment. It must be stressed that, although the amounts allocated to TSOs in recent years are really high, they are not able to cover all the necessary needs of these entities. In 2020, through joint efforts and very good cooperation between relevant ministers: climate, environment, home affairs and administration, on the basis of an agreement on co-operation in the fight against environmental threats, TSOs received massive financial support from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the Regional Environmental and Water Funds, the amount of 143 660 000. zł. It is worth noting that the purchases of fire-fighting cars for CSR units across the country were carried out by the head of the PSP as part of the financial assembly of funds from various sources: from the state budget, from the budgets of the local government units maintaining CSR, from environmental funds, as well as from non-budget sources, which the head of the PSP received from insurance undertakings and were obtained from the applicable fire insurance. To sum up, TSOs from different sources, including insurance write-downs, received total funding of almost PLN 381 million in 2020. Over the years, the funding of CSR units, taking into account the availability of the source of funding, amounted to PLN 2016 - PLN 114 million, 2017 - PLN 131 million, 2018 - PLN 334 million, 2019 - PLN 277 million, 2020 - PLN 381 million. It is worth noting that these amounts have enabled the purchase of the largest number of specialized rescue and fire-fighting vehicles for voluntary fire-fighting services for many years. In total, almost 600 such cars were purchased from different sources in 2020 and more than 2290 fire-fighting cars were purchased for total CSR units between 2016 and 2020. I would like to remind you that during the 15 previous years, i.e. in 2001 and 2015 only 2 000 were purchased for TSOs. new cars. So it can be said that state aid has tripled in recent years for voluntary firefighters. The main needs of the TSO units are still related to the purchase of rescue and fire-fighting cars and we spend most of our money for this purpose. Most vehicles are medium and heavy fire-fighting vehicles, which are widely used in rescue and fire-fighting operations, are universal vehicles. I would also like to stress that, from the resources of the State Fire Department, used cars are sent to the CSR units, which are withdrawn according to the standards set by the Chief of State Fire Department. For example, in 2016, 236 used cars entered the TSO, in 2017 - 231, in 2018 - 223, in 2019 - 324 and in 2020 - 502 vehicles. Plus, he hits it, of course. various types of equipment. Over 30,000 were purchased in these years. various types of personal and protective equipment, such as clothes, helmets, special gloves, air apparatus, as well as the repair and repair of guards were financed. In this way, almost 2,700 CSR guards have been renovated or upgraded. I would like to remind you that in Poland there are 4655 units of CSR and 11 400 other units, i.e. except for KSRG. We now have more than 200,000, according to the Chief of State Fire Department. rescue firefighters who have the authority to participate in rescue operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u8	Thank you, Minister. With an additional question, Mr Waldemar Andzel. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u9	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the help that the Law and Justice Government provides to voluntary firefighters for the purchase of cars and other equipment. I wanted to ask what it would look like in the next few years. Will there still be such support for volunteer firefighters? There are of course high expectations, but firefighters appreciate and Polish society appreciates this support for voluntary firefighters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u10	Thank you, sir. You're welcome, Minister, to respond. Minister Maciej Wąsik.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! This year, despite the difficult situation of COVID, it was possible to create a certain financial engineering based on the funds of the Ministry, based on the national funds of the fund and the resources of the local authorities, from which more than 300 cars were purchased for voluntary firefighters. Plus, almost 200 used cars will be transferred from the State Fire Department. The State Fire Department buys a new fleet, introduces new cars to use. Those so far, quite efficient, these are cars - let's say 10, 12, 15 years old, well maintained, they are transferred to voluntary fire services, especially those where local authorities are unable to allocate funds for their own contribution to the purchase of new rescue cars. I also wanted to stress that we still remember, we are trying to plan the budget for next year. I am convinced that the government will appreciate the TSOs and there will be money for further modification of the fleet of voluntary firefighters. This is of great importance in the rescue system, in the fire escape system. In general, every new car in rescue It's a huge motivation for young people who get together with CSR, every new car This is an incentive to improve qualifications. I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration will ensure that adequate financial resources are transferred to this end. We also want to support firefighters through the law on voluntary firefighters, which we have set out. I hope that this bill will come out of the government soon, to the Sejm. We are happy because it is widely consulted in the fire community. Where there were doubts, they were explained. In fact, it is a collection of important environmental privileges, important elements for the functioning of TSOs, huge support, because the TSO is building a state security system, is an important element of fire protection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u12	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to question two. The question is prepared by Urszula Augustyn, Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka and Sławomir Jan Piechota from the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. The question is about 56 million PLN, which did not reach the recipients within 1%. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance. Please, the question is asked by Mrs Urszula Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We also addressed the question in the form of interpellation, but the answer to this interpellation was not satisfactory for us, so we want to ask, take the opportunity to know for sure. We wrote the interpellation precisely because public benefit organisations that use money that are transferred by taxpayers within the framework of the so-called. 1% write-down , serve these organisations as a source of funding for statutory activities. The fact that NGOs do a lot, do a very good job, convince no one, while we probably all deserve information and an explanation. Well, from the first answer to our interpellation, we learn that in 2019 the public benefit organization did not reach the transferred from the intention of taxpayers 55 905 393.81 PLN. This is the information given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance by Mrs. Anna Chałupa. So almost 56 million didn't arrive, died somewhere between the taxpayer who wanted to give that money and the public benefit organization that could use that money. Our questions are as follows. First of all, we'd like to know what happened to that money. Secondly, what was the verification method? Because we read in response to the interpellation that the IRS questioned the way the money was transferred. What is the cause of this? Why? I think I'm gonna get an answer to that question today. And finally, thirdly, did public benefit organisations that were the recipients of this money find out that for some reason they didn't have the money? And did those who passed on the money, the taxpayers, find out about it? These are very important questions. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u14	Thank you very much, Member. Please answer the questions raised by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Anna Chałupa. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The personal income tax payer, i.e. a natural person, may transfer 1% in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down in the legislation a tax calculated in accordance with the rules for the benefit of a public benefit organisation of its choice. Donors have the option to choose the beneficiary 1% tax from public benefit organisations entitled to receive the measures in question, i.e. Listed and published by the Director of the National Institute of Freedom. This summary is publicly available, and can be found on the website of the Institute. Transmission 1% the tax for a public benefit organisation shall be determined by Article. 45c Act on Personal Income Tax and Art. 21b Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. The rules clearly indicate the conditions for both the donor and the beneficiary 1% the tax must be met so that the amount indicated in the applications can be transferred to the bank accounts of the public benefit organisation. One of the conditions that must be met for the head of the tax office to transfer funds from 1% indicated by the taxable person of the public benefit organisation is payment in full the amount of tax due on the basis of the calculation of the amount to be paid to the public benefit organisation. The payment of the tax must take place no later than 2 months after the expiry of the period for the submission of the tax statement. The exception is a situation where tax arrears in this tax do not exceed PLN 8.70. In the light of the above regulations, the absence of a tax payment to the tax office within 2 months effectively prevents the transfer of 1% tax. I would like to inform you that about 93% Unfortunately, taxpayers have not paid their money, even though they have declared in their statement that such money is willing to transfer to a public benefit organization. So we have 93%. Negatively verified requests for transfers of 1%. This concerned cases of payment of tax after the expiry of the deadline, thus preventing the transfer of 1%. The second case: the failure to transfer funds may also have reasons independent of the donor, because it may result from failure by public benefit organisations to comply with the conditions laid down by law. E.g. the organisation has not provided the bank account number appropriate for the transfer of 1% or the number of this account is incorrect. Then the money came back. This is also the case when the public benefit organisation is not listed or removed from the National Freedom Institute list. Among the applications that have been negatively verified by the tax authorities of such cases, we have 6.3%. Referring to the indicated amount of almost PLN 56 million, which did not reach the bank accounts of the public benefit organisation as a settlement of 1% I would like to inform you that the data collected from the heads of the tax office shows that the requests for a transfer of 1% were negatively verified. and the reason for the failure to transfer these funds was precisely the failure to comply with the above-mentioned provisions. the conditions, i.e. the absence of payment of the tax within the time limit, either the absence of an account or the misplaced account of the organisation, or the removal of the organisation from the list of public benefit organisations. Verification of requests for transfers of 1% the tax on individuals for the benefit of a selected organisation is implemented on the basis of applicable and widely known legal regulations. In any negatively verified case, withdrawal from distribution of requested amounts of 1% the tax on income from natural persons for 2019 was justified by the law in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u16	Thank you, Minister. I understand that Mrs Urszula Augustyn with a supplementary question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u17	Of course - thank you, Marshal - because I did not learn from the Minister exactly what I asked, which is where the money is today. You exchanged the Minister's amount of PLN 56 million. If that money didn't get to NGOs, where are they? That's one thing. Secondly, I asked whether these NGOs had received this information. It may turn out that someone has given the wrong account number, sometimes it's a matter of one number, and maybe someone doesn't know that this money could go to a public benefit organization's account, but it doesn't come up because of a mistake. So I want to ask you one more time, because I was just asking if anyone is telling these NGOs that there's a problem, for example. with their address or account number. Does anyone inform donors? The minister was kind enough to say that maybe someone was late, the donor was late paying that tax. But finally, this donor will pay the tax. If he's late and this money wants to write back, he wants to hand it over to a public benefit organization, are they even on time or not? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if not, where are they physically? And one last thing, Your Marshal, one question: How does the Council of Public Interests feel about this? Does she receive information about the state of affairs? The point is, is there a report like this so that the Council of Public Interests can, for example, establish contacts with organizations... Thank you. ...who make mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u18	Thank you, Member. Minister Anna Chałupa, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try again. If... [[You didn't answer. Don't repeat it, just answer it.]] So, if you don't mind, the fact is, if the donor is late in paying, there's no legal way that this money goes to a public benefit organization. That's 93%. cases. That's the law. Under the law, the IRS is not allowed to transfer this money. So if the taxpayer actually settled with the fiscus, the money goes to the state budget. If, in turn, the public benefit organisation has not verified its account number, it has not reported it in accordance with the rules, it is difficult for the Ministry of Finance to inform any organisation that its bank account is wrong, right? Of course, this information, this cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Public Use and the National Institute of Freedom, is implemented on an ongoing basis, i.e. that if only such situations occur, then we inform that the organisation has a wrong number, and already given a public benefit council is in contact with organizations within some association, whether it be voivodship organizations or such things. Maybe I can also say this: these amounts transferred to public benefit organisations are increasing systematically, because in 2018 it was 760 million and in 2020. - over 900 million, right? Of course, not every public benefit organization is growing because taxpayers' preferences are changing, right? So if we can do anything, of course we do and listen to the national institute and public benefit advice. On the other hand, we must act as a fiscal within the limits of the law, and the law says that we cannot transfer this money to the organization. It's the rules. [[So they stay in the budget, right?]] Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u20	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question prepared by Mieczysław Kasprzak and Jan Łopata from the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland on galloping inflation is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak asks the question first.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to Eurostat, according to April data, we had inflation in our country exceeding 5%. It's kind of a record. Hungarians are also horizontal at the same time. What does this mean for our economy and, above all, for Poles? Year-to-year prices have increased in terms of services - without a small 7%, food - by 1.3%, bread - by 5.7% , poultry meat - 18.5% , electricity - this is very important and important - by 9.5% , medical services - by 6,1% , petrol - 34%, radio-television fee - 17, 18% , despite a grant from the budget of PLN 2 billion. There weren't supposed to be any increases, and prices went up 18%. This makes Poles less and less able to buy for their salary, for their wages. It's all this help to the poorest families we hear about it that makes no sense, because the state is taking some kind of inflationary tax because that's what you have to call it. From year to year, it's 5%. appropriations less in the budgets of Poles, pensioners. This applies primarily to pensioners, because the situation of many pensioners has deteriorated despite the valorization, these promises, these declarations. So my question is, what is the government going to do next? Because there's such an indifferent attitude. That's the feeling that the government kind of cares about this inflation being as high as it is, because then the government has more budget benefits. Is there anything the government is going to do about it? The increase in electricity prices (The Bell) translates mainly into all services, services and goods prices. Thank you. Does the government have any idea how to stop price increases... Thank you very much. ...electric energy? ♪ 'Cause 10% ♪ It's a lot.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u22	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Minister Piotr Patkowski will answer the question under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The answer to this question I would like to start with two very strong reservations. Firstly, inflation policy falls to a large extent under the National Bank of Poland, the Monetary Policy Council, so government representatives, and in particular the Ministry of Finance, must be very careful to speak on this subject, so that they are not accused of violating the independence of these two constitutional bodies. And the second reservation from which I would like to start and on which, I think, everyone in this House, in this Chamber, we agree: regardless of any type of opinion or macroeconomic indicators, the inflation reading for May - yesterday the CSO updated it - is 4.7% - he's tall. We all agree on that. On the other hand, macroeconomically this has some basis and there are also some ways out of what I'm about to say. On the other hand, I would like to assure you that we are aware that this May reading raises some concerns and uncertainty among Poles. On the other hand, I would like to start by saying that the inflation target adopted with the general consensus of economists is 2.5%. , with possible deviations both up and down by 1 percentage point. And this inflationary objective, with these deviations, is generally achieved. In 2017 it was 2% , in 2018, 1,6% , in 2019 - 2,3% and in 2020 - 3,4% , so all fundamental macroeconomic policies, including inflation, have been respected in this respect. As far as the May reading is concerned, there are four factors to it. The first is the increase in administrative prices, which we have a moderate impact on, because they are prices for water and sewage services and energy prices. Why such energy prices - I think it is a matter for a completely different debate. On the other hand, it has been slightly postponed on the consequences of the lack of implementation of climate policy over the last 10 years, so now we are catching up a little bit. Administrative prices, on the other hand, are of the opinion that they will stabilise over the next months. The second issue that affects the high reading of May is oil prices, completely independent of the government. This is what lies at the peak of oil prices on global markets, i.e. 72 bucks a barrel... [[It used to cost more, there weren't prices like what you were saying.]] But, Mrs... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Madam President, there are four reasons and this is one of them. 72 dollars plus weak gold compared to the dollar - this also affects the price of inflation. The third point is the demand set aside. The covid economic crisis was different from most crises, that it was a supply crisis rather than a demand crisis. The supply didn't keep up with the demand. She didn't keep up because it was destroyed by war, but because it was administratively closed. At this point, we have a deferred demand that accumulated in May and will accumulate for some time, but will also expire. The fourth very important factor that affects inflation is so-called. anchoring inflation projections. Inflation, in addition to all purely statistical issues, also depends on certain behavioural expectations. It is a bit so that the higher the anchoring of inflation expectations, the more inflation itself drives itself, although statistics have little to do with it. This is why it is important - aside from the public opinion - that if we refer to macroeconomic indications, we should be very thorough and not use the current purely technical inflation, the economic term, which is galloping inflation. Because according to a single economic doctrine, inflation galloping is a dozen or several dozen percent and a real drop in income from wages. As for the fact that we do not have inflation of a dozen and dozens of percent, there is no doubt, because this is indicated by the CUS. On the other hand, with regard to salaries in the first 4 months of this year, it should be noted that the average wage in the enterprise sector was 6,8% higher than in the same period in 2020. This is, of course, nominal growth, while real - already taking into account purchasing power - is also positive and is 3.6%. In the enterprise sector alone, nominal growth is 9.9% , and the real one, that is, including inflation - 5.3%. So we're not dealing with a decrease in real wage power. She's growing. Of course, the dynamics have weakened, but it's still clearly positive. In addition, food price dynamics - the most pressing element of inflation - are lower than general inflation, as they amount to 1.3%. To answer your questions, I will explain what we are going to do as a government. We have two really strong instruments, except for the entire facility the central bank has. The first - it may seem strange - is a behavioral instrument. We need to evaluate inflation by showing what it really is, not driving it by terms of the galoping type, because that is exactly the risk that it will grow, because these are behavioral expectations. Unfortunately, inflation or steths sometimes slip away from statistics. Therefore, as a government, we will anchor very strongly inflation expectations at the level permitted by the NBP, with deviations of 1 percentage point. The second instrument - no longer behavioral, but very hard - is the ongoing monitoring, whether as a whole economy we do not reach and exceed the product gap (the bell), which means we do not adjust demand to supply. Fortunately - and this is also indicated in the multiannual financial programme - our maximum demand still does not meet all supply possibilities of the Polish economy. This is the main indicator that lights an orange lamp if you need it, when inflation actually gets out of control. As the Ministry of Finance during the implementation of government programmes and legislative work, we assess all programmes generating additional expenditure and see if the product gap does not actually exceed the adjustment of supply to demand. This is the main objective for which the Ministry of Finance has been pursuing for many years and which we will continue to pursue when it comes to reducing inflation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u24	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Jan Łopata with a supplementary question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u25	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, today we are asking about inflation, about rising prices, and basically about the cost and whether it is galloping or not. It's certainly not our fault, the opposition, that it is, because it's just a fact. [[Applause]] The price increase has been very high, the highest in 20 years, and unfortunately it has increased, as you yourself admitted. And even though you also pointed to the rise in wages in the economy, for example. This area, the issue of pensions that a colleague asked about, is slipping out of control when it comes to showing revenue. Unfortunately, in this universal rhetoric of the government, propaganda about the new government, about the Polish government, about the increase in income, supposedly big - not a word about this negative phenomenon. I want to ask, or ask, about construction, which is also included: What is the increase in construction or construction expenditures? Now it looks like - I do not ask about steel, whose prices have increased by more than 130%, whether Styrofoam, but such important materials as OSB 36, heating installations (the bell), roofs, gutters or lighting more than 10% - cost increase 1 m
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u26	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Minister Piotr Patkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u27	Mr. Speaker! I am not accusing the opposition, I am pointing only to this important behavioral factor and he, wanting not to, always with inflation occurs. The correct anchoring of inflation targets is the most effective way to combat state authorities, including the Sejm, with possible increases in inflation. And we cannot talk about galloping inflation when the doctrine describes it differently, and we have a completely different phenomenon in the Polish economy. According to economic doctrines, we have inflation on the border of creeping and gradual, but not galloping, so that I would really ask that we do not call inflation galloping if it is not, because it is not galloping inflation and any economist will confirm it. On the other hand, we are aware that indeed this May reading is high, but I would just like to point out that we probably still have an inflationary reading of the June peak this year. Everything points to this if, of course, this anchoring doesn't get out of hand, that inflation will be falling since July. We will also have low inflation, Mr President, and that is the key thing I would like to say. On the other hand, it's about construction. This is again affected by a number of international issues, the interruption of supply chains, the disruption of supply in global markets from the titles of administrative tightenings, after all, they were not only in Poland, but actually around the world. This must necessarily be reflected in the short-term limitation of supply power. There's no way out. It happens in Poland, it happens all over the world. If we look at most countries, most of them are higher than they've been in the last 2, 3 years. Germany, which struggled on the edge of deflation, now has an inflation reading of more than 2% for the same reasons as Poland. If we compare inflation pointlessly, if inflation jumped in Poland and Germany, we will come up with contrast and balance. Therefore, there are a number of these economic causes in the construction sector and this will also disappear here. The problem that can really arise -- I'll repeat it again -- will be at a time when the product gap will cause us to have oversupply over demand. Then, indeed, there will be a situation in which this inflation will be permanent and permanent. But at this point, it's not there. We have indicated, we have described this very clearly in the update of the convergence programme and the European Commission itself points out this. Therefore, I think this is a basic indicator which at this moment must and should reassure us. I guarantee that we have this under control, and when the product gap starts showing us the orange light, I guarantee that the Minister of Finance will be the first to draw attention to this. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[So it's okay for now?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u28	Thank you very much, Minister. Another question. The question prepared by Barbara Bartus, Robert Telus and Mark Pole from Law and Justice on the participation of students from the school in Dobczyce in the political event Tour de Constitution. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Education. The question will be asked by Barbara Bartus. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] The card, Madame, must be put in the reader. To all the countries asking the question, please put the card in the device in order to ask the question from the point of view. [[But I did. Oh, and leave it.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u29	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For the opposition, the young man, his future, the future of the Polish people, the future of Poland is irrelevant. Only important is the possibility of a tube, the implementation of its own political and party projects and the shaping of young people according to its own idea. Hence the massive attack on the Polish family, on schools, among others. through programs sexualizing children like Zdrovve Love in Gdansk, as well as in Łódź, Słupsk, Warsaw. Children are depraved under the slogans of health programs. by inviting them to the so-called. Women's strikes. Let us also remember that this is a planned action, programmed and it has been going on for several years. I have here, among other things. in mind the manual issued in 2013 by the organisation of the Campaign Against Homophobia. Because of this organization, whose founder, Mr. Robert Biedron was the first president. This book, which was supposed to talk about equality, about sexuality, about sexuality, was published in 2013 by the Polish Teachers' Association as a textbook for teachers, how to deal with children. Now we have another stage of sexualization and it is already at the stage of even kindergarteners, because the kindergarteners were invited to this political event in the Dobczyce Tour de Constitution. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: What is the reality of what happened in Dobczyce? Did the parents even know what the Ministry had taken (the bell) on this matter? And at all, does the ministry have an impact on how schools work, how directors work, how teachers work? Does the probation officer have supervisory capacity in these situations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u30	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask Minister Tomasz Romekowski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science, to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u31	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I answer the questions asked. On June 9, i.e. the day after the Tour de Constitution in Dobczyce, the Małopolska curatorium of education carried out a check at the primary school in Dobczyce in connection with the participation of students of this school in a political meeting organized by the so-called. The Committee for the Defence of Democracy, where children of class VIII - three and class V - came in one class. What's been decided? First of all, none of the parents consented to the participation of children in this event. The decision to bring the children to a political meeting was made by the school board on a proposal from one of the teachers, without checking what the event is and by whom it is organized. Students of classes VIII and V were allowed to take part in a politically strict event. In the register of exits, which must be completed when the children are removed from school, this exit was entered only on the day of the audit, i.e. after the event. The numbers of children in register records and journals are different, i.e. the teachers did not know how many students actually had under their care. Another issue identified in the course of the check carried out on 9 June. Teachers who were with children did not respond to inappropriate content provided by the judges present and did not bring the children out of the meeting. [[Well, they were talking about the constitution.]] [[They had the right.]] Hello, hello, Member, listen to the Minister's statement. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: The sixth line. The image of children was used to film and distribute content on the Internet without parental consent. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It should also be added that numerous complaints from the concerned parents of these children have been brought into the education center. Therefore, the actions that were undertaken by the curatorium were taken immediately, that is, the day after the event, which took place on 8 June in Dobczyce. In addition, he received a request from Mayor Dobczyc to the Disciplinary Ombudsman to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the Head of School No 1. Parents also received such signals into the Małopolska school curatorium. And to the end. On Monday 14 June, primary school management No. 1 took note of the protocol and signed it at the curator's office. At the moment, it has 7 days - this date began running from 14 June - to make amendments, to supplement or to correct. On 22 June, the procedure will become valid and further steps will be taken. Going beyond this fact, which you asked for, which you asked for - this, among others. is to be used by the Council of Ministers at the moment by a draft law amending the Act on the Education System, so that the education curator is able to implement the education policy of the State in a real way. Today we are dealing with the situation that we, as the government administration responsible for the education policy of the state, can actually carry out checks, visits, document mirrors in educational institutions, while we do not have instruments such as the leading bodies, see: municipalities, powiats or local governments. This state of affairs needs to be fixed, and it has among others. serve to introduce mechanisms for real supervision of heads of educational establishments, to align de facto with those powers which lead to directors of this type of school who do not provide in our assessment these constitutional guarantees, the terms of the omen, the constitutional guarantees that parents decide about matters of education, but also about matters of the worldview of children. On the other hand, these children, against the will of their parents, participated in a specific political meeting, under specific auspices, in a specific political environment. And that just shouldn't have happened. Including an absolutely outrageous thing, that is to say, using the image of minors without parental consent in political action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[100%...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u32	Thank you very much, Minister. Madame, I ask you to remain calm. Aren't you outraged that the children were used for such a political huckle? [[It's outrageous because there was a constitution and a minister...]] Constitution... Madam, you really don't have a voice right now. Mrs Barbara Bartus with a supplementary question. [[Scandal!]] Yes, the scandal is that the children were used for the political huckle. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Please...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u33	Thank you very much. Yes, Your Marshal, what you said: the scandal is that the children were politically abused. And the constitution says, among other things, about promoting the family. [[And you're talking about pedophiles?]] About promoting family, not homosexuality and LGBT movements. It happens just like in Dobczyce, that irresponsible directors and teachers violate the rights of parents, families, and decide for themselves to shape the upbringing of children. It happens just like in Dobczyce, but also in cases I mentioned earlier. So it would be good, Minister, to draw the attention of parents, to direct their attention to the educational-profiling programs that were introduced in schools, to the tool that was introduced. The point is that parents at the beginning of each school year have the right to decide on the records in these programmes. It's the parents who decide about their own children. That's the way it's supposed to be. That's how we were shaped, and that's how we shape it today. It should be used. Parents decide. This is parents' right and duty (the bell): deciding to raise their own child. Therefore, Minister, thank you for these explanations. Although to be honest, there was even more to be seen on TV. I know you were talking about kids, but there were kindergarteners. They're screaming for a constitution, they're calling for a constitution, and there are anti-constitutional laws used... Thank you, Member. ...is an act against the Constitution. Thank you. So if that's the political event you're doing, with adults, you're welcome. Thank you, Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u34	Minister, I'm asking you to give me an additional answer. Minister Tomasz Romankowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u35	Thank you so much for that question. [[Will you pay 100% for education?]] Mrs... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Mrs. Member! High Izbo! That's what you said. The Polish Constitution guarantees parents exclusive rights when it comes to shaping the system of the values of their children. The Polish school, the Polish educational system primarily deals with education, but also supports the educational process of children and young people. On the other hand, the word "supports" is as good as it is. In Polish it understands, means that the school is only supposed to support this vision that parents present. However, in the example cited in Dobczyc, we see a situation extremely different, different from the letter of the Constitution, a number of ratified international agreements, which guarantee parents that their children will not be indoctrinated against their will. Here we have dealt with the situation of extreme violation of the Polish Constitution, if we are to talk about the Constitution. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! We, as the Ministry of Education and Science, take the issue of protecting the Polish family very seriously. This will also be reflected in the State's educational policy criteria for family education. Translation, showing and supporting the Polish family - yes, this is what Polish parents expect. Polish parents expect that the Polish school will educate very well at a very high global level and will support them in the educational process in increasingly difficult times. On the other hand, such behaviors, which we can at least call pathological behaviour, must simply be eliminated. Pathology is a situation where the school operates against educational processes that result from home education. I recall and repeat this: to the Education Office in Krakow on the same day complaints from appalled parents were received that, contrary to their will, their children participated in political mything, during which content was presented, which was first incompatible with the views of their parents and, secondly, inadequate to the age of these children. That's the thing. It's just absolutely outrageous. I am very surprised that there are political environments in Poland that take such pathological behaviour in defence. It's really unbelievable. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u36	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question was prepared by Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Dariusz Joński, Monika Rosa, Dorota Niedziela, the Civic Coalition Club. This is a question about reducing the funding of the school programme 2021/2022, to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Please, the question is asked by Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In fact, this is outrageous, and we think it is outrageous: how can you even reduce the rates for a school children's feeding program? After all, since 2004 there has been a milk glass programme. The left-wing government could afford to put in a program like this. Another government, the Civic Platform and PSL government, expanded this programme in 2009 by introducing fruit at school. The children had the opportunity to eat fruit or vegetables. Today, you're lowering your rates. Can't the current government really afford that? You say that the reason is that the basket will change, the contents of this basket and that there will be no more expensive products, only cheaper ones. Can't you really afford to have our children in 14,000? Polish schools could eat tomatoes, radishes, natural yogurt, kefira? We don't see any such justification at all. We believe, in fact, that this is an unacceptable situation. We hope that you will revise your regulation. I ask you to answer the question whether this will happen or what were the reasons for the reduction of these rates, the real reasons. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u38	Thank you, Member. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Ryszard Bartosik, will answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u39	Dear Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! For the 2021/2022 school year, aid rates have in fact not been reduced. Their level is based solely on the mathematical calculation of reducing the value of the whole basket delivered to schools. You, ladies and gentlemen, the situation that you are talking about, is that we are partly benefiting from EU funding. In the 2021/2022 school year, EU funding decreased from EUR 250 million to EUR 220.8 million per school year. This is the consequence of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union. It seemed that the United Kingdom did not use the funds received from the EU school programme. Therefore, other Member States could benefit from these measures, which belonged to the United Kingdom, which were allocated to it. After the brexite, this is no longer possible, and the EU budget allocated to Poland for the implementation of the School Programme has therefore decreased by 12.6% compared to the current school year. But there is also funding from the national budget, which has not changed and amounts to PLN 128.1 million per school year. This situation caused the school programme to decide to keep the number of portions close to the school year 2020/2021 next year, i.e. 80 milk and 80 fruit and vegetables, with an estimated increase of 152 thousand. pupils in the target group. Thus, for the 2021/2022 school year, the aid rates were not actually reduced. Their level is based solely on the mathematical calculation of the reduction in the value of the whole basket delivered to schools. These changes have been developed, accepted by representatives of ministries and institutions involved in the administration of the school programme. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development ensures that the implementation of the school programme is monitored. We also adapt it to the current situation. In the last difficult pandemic year, national legislation has been amended several times to enable the programme to be implemented during the pandemic, i.e. during remote learning. I would like to assure you that there is no reduction in funding and, in practice, students will receive support at a similar level under the School Programme. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. The supplementary question will be asked by Mrs Okła-Drewnowicz. [[Mr Marzen Okła-Drewnowicz: No, Mr.]] No, I understand. Mr Dariusz Joński. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u41	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister said a moment ago that these reductions were not a reduction at all, as I understood correctly. I'm the one who can look at the Council of Ministers regulation of 26 May 2021. Minister! I don't know, you may not know what the Prime Minister signed, but in 2021/2022, we are talking about the school year, the rate for each portion is 68, and it was 73. This is a reduction. Mathematically, it's a reduction. [[Applause]] You're presenting some math calculations. 73 is more than 68 gr. That certainly doesn't change. And I want to ask you if you really do. The new Deal is that you do not want to add milk to the glass and to this program, which was later enriched with vegetables and fruit, which was a proposal from the Civic Platform. You're saying there's no money because Britain has resigned from the European Union. I mean, that doesn't even... [[He doesn't hold the poop.]] ...doesn't stick. Minister, do you want to save money on children? Really hands, you can say, fall down when you listen to all this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. I would like to appeal from this place, Marshal, to the Minister... Okay, but it's already timed out. Really, sir, let us respect each other. ...to reschedule and return to this level because the price of milk has increased by 15%.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u42	Please respond to Minister Richard Bartosik. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u43	Dear Marshal! High Seym! With regard to issues relating to the reduction of funding from the European Union, Commissioner, these are simply facts. We used all the countries of the European Union to benefit from funds that were not used by the United Kingdom. The European Union has now made such a decision that those measures that were allocated to the UK simply do not exist. [[That's gonna have to be paid.]] [[Then throw it in the budget.]] And that's just the facts. We're not discussing that. Therefore, national funding has not changed. But we're actually monitoring the situation. I said in my first speech that during the difficult COVID year we changed these rules and if anything were to happen to the detriment of schools and children, we would modify this regulation. At the moment, however, according to our opinion, these measures will not be lacking and children will receive support in the same way as last year through the school programme. If there is any risk that this support would be less, we will modify this regulation so that it does not decrease. The situation is being monitored all the time. Furthermore, we are also meeting with the suppliers of these measures and we will talk about this. If necessary, the Regulation will be amended. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: Children have fewer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u44	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question on the dynamics of wage increases in health care after the period of neglect of previous governments is prepared by Mr Latos, Ms Anna April and Ms Józef Ruchurek-Żelazko from Law and Justice. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. The question will be asked by Anna April. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are all well aware that pay issues in the health sector have always aroused and aroused great emotions. Let me just remind you that, for eight years, the governments of the Civic Platform and PSL have been frozen not only in the health sector but also in all the budgetary institutions. Only in the last year, literally in the last few months, will I remind you here, Professor Zembala, as a result of the protests of the nurses and the town, which was built under the Ministry, came to an agreement and to be negotiated by the nurse so-called. a zembalic supplement. It was 2015. I will also remind you - which was probably the most psychic in this whole matter - that these funds were not secured in the state budget. [[They were secure.]] They weren't. [[They were secure.]] But, Commissioner, I really ask you to calm your emotions. Let's respect each other. [[Then please don't lie to me. There's never been a lie like today.]] Mrs... It was only in 2016 that transfers were made and the funds were paid to the nurses. Ladies and gentlemen! Since this year, 2016, Minister, the Government of Law and Justice has tried to increase annual salaries in the health sector, the salaries of all workers working in the sector. So I have a question for you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What will be the follow-up, and what will be the further progress in raising workers' wages in the health sector? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u46	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Maciej Miłkowski, will answer the question. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, staff salaries are a fundamental, very important part of the work of people who work in the health sector, and this applies not only to medical, nursing, but also to employees of all medical professions in the health system. We know that there's no possibility of staff working just some medical professions. Since the beginning of the first term of office of the rule of law and justice, salaries have been a very important element in the appreciation of health care professionals. Mrs Zembala spoke of the first agreement signed by Prof. Marian Zembala. In fact, as the new government took up the job, it faced the need to take a decision on the continuation of the benefit which had been implemented, all the more so as the financial resources indicated under the regulation, as well as a strategic decision on the need for this to be done, because this is the right direction. Since then, the tasks of raising the remuneration of health professionals have been systematically carried out. In the previous period, as the honourable Member has said, there has been no regulation for years and it has not been possible to implement such regulation from the financial resources of medicinal entities, since the last change in the evaluation of the health benefit was made in 2008, when the price of the billing point in hospital treatment was increased from PLN 51 to PLN 52 due to changes in the VAT rate. There has been no valuation change in this area for 8 years and therefore the directors could not raise these salaries. The Ministry of Health, while Minister Konstanty Radziwiłła was still working, prepared a systemic solution related to salaries in the health sector, which agreed that the lowest fixed remuneration of health professionals should not be lower than that laid down in the Act, and prepared a four-year transitional period during which each year these salary increases of 20% the difference has been covered for all workers in all health sectors. This applies to doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, pharmacists, as well as to other non-medical professionals working in the field of primary activity. These increases have been implemented regardless of the government's implementation of the minimum wage increases throughout the economy, which, as we remember, has been growing considerably since 2016 in our country's system. The issue of remuneration was further clarified last year with regard to the law that is being implemented, namely the lowest salaries are anchored at the level of the average remuneration in the national economy. We know that average wages are rising to a higher level than inflation, rising steadily, and therefore this lowest wage will now be increased every year by an average wage increase in the national economy and all people will receive an increase each year - from 1 July each year. Since the Act entered into force, the last element - 31 December this year, the government decided that by six months it would speed up the entry into force of the Act and that none of the employees would be able to receive a lower remuneration than that specified in the Act. As we know, yesterday was finally adopted as regards the legislative process, the law on the lowest salaries, i.e. amendment of the law, which increases remuneration rates and accelerates this law and guarantees that all medical workers also do not deteriorate the financial conditions they have had so far. The remuneration rates have been adopted since 1 July, i.e. in a moment it will be such that the basic salary, of course we are talking about the basic salary, will not be lower for the employee of the basic activity with basic education of PLN 3050, PLN 3770 in the case of a specialist doctor. And, of course, less, I mean. 6200 zł, 5478 zł for the doctor who is on the residency, and 4186 zł for the intern doctor. For nurses (the bell) 4186 zł, respectively, where most nurses are, or 5478 zł, if the nurse has a master's degree and specialization. Yes, thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u48	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u49	Minister! I would also like to ask in this very important matter concerning health protection as regards the financial means to secure the implementation of this law. I am saying this from the point of view of employers who are concerned that the government will direct funds to institutions so that they can implement this law that entered into force yesterday. I would like to ask what amount the government must allocate from the state budget for the implementation of the law that was passed by the Sejm yesterday, by Parliament in general, and what costs it will cost next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Miłkowski again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u51	As far as these measures are concerned, healthcare providers who will be obliged to implement this law will be able to count on financial resources under contracts which they implement with the National Health Fund. The Ministry of Health published a draft amendment to the regulation on the general terms and conditions of contracts last week, as was the case in previous years, where this remuneration is fixed. The system of collecting information on the necessary means to implement this law, i.e. the difference between the current remuneration of basic salaries and the target remuneration for 1 July this year. together with all the information relating to derivatives related to this increase in basic salary, i.e. all allowances, internships allowances, other allowances, as well as night shifts - all the elements that are related to the increase in basic salary, as I said, because this concerns the basic salary, as well as the costs that are on the employers' side. This information is being collected by the National Health Fund. There's a deadline for commenting by tomorrow. We will want this regulation to be published immediately after the entry into force of the amendment to the Law on the lowest remuneration in the health sector. The National Health Fund will collect this data and pay additional benefits to each provider through a separate stream of funding for subsequent periods. Each entity will receive exactly the amount that fully secures it. These funds amount to PLN 3.7 billion from the National Health Fund and about 300 million from the health sector budget, the Ministry of Health, which are mainly devoted to salaries. This is about increasing the remuneration of residents, as I said, about 1200 PLN, or also doctors of trainees, because these are benefits fully financed directly by the Ministry of Health, as well as funds intended for the remuneration of medical personnel who are employed in budget units, directly subordinate to the Minister of Health. In particular, with regard to the State Sanitary Inspection, where wages are lower than those specified. These measures are secured for next year. This amount is more than twice the amount, which is, as I say, PLN 4 billion in this year, plus 8 billion in the next year and these funds will be (the bell) paid separately... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u52	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Rajmund Miller, Monika Wielichowska, Krystyna Skowrońska, Monika Rosa, Elżbieta Gelert, Katarzyna Lubnauer, Paweł Kowal, Marta Golbik, Riad Haidar, Jerzy Hardie-Douglas and Marek Hok from the Civic Coalition ask about the situation of medical personnel. Please, Minister, Member. [[I'm asking you a question.]] Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska - the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u53	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! If it's as good as the Minister said it was, why were nurses, midwives, paramedics, physiotherapists, doctors and others on strike before the Sejm yesterday? [[Because you've wasted eight years.]] Madam, you have no voice now. [[And like I said, you're...]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Just don't lie, it won't provoke.]] You're welcome. I would like to say that over the last six years, there has been an increase in healthcare debt. Hospitals each year increased their debt. Self-government had to cover it. The Law and Justice Act didn't help you, and it's not as good as the Minister says. We waited a long time because almost a month, to answer how much it would cost. These are different data from what you said about the bill itself. From this bill all medical environments and the entire opposition are dissatisfied. We offered higher wages. There's nothing more important than life and health. We have 100,000. excessive deaths. We have a dissatisfied environment of those who saved Poles. At that time 138 doctors, 131 nurses, 19 midwives, 16 paramedics died. Ladies and gentlemen, there were almost 24,000 infected. Doctors and about 59,000. Nurses, 6,000. midwives and about 4,000. Paramedics. They deserve a decent reward. And you voted yesterday... I am very surprised by the Minister, because there is no more important thing. You had an envelope election. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So we're asking you when you're gonna do it, because over the last six years, we've been measuring the procedures. Unfortunately, she's not the best. And as for the previous period... Thank you, Member. Mr. Marshal, one sentence. As far as the previous period is concerned, we had an excessive deficit procedure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u54	The answer will be given to Minister Maciej Miłkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. [[Why didn't you?]] [[Because Mr Suski didn't ask about Catherine.]] Mrs... [[Why didn't you do it for eight years?]] [[You guys haven't done it in six years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u55	Dear Marshal, Thank you, Member, for the questions. As I said, medical personnel are very important and their salary is very important. That's what I wanted to tell you when I asked you last time. Why are there protests? Because there's an open law on the lowest salary. This is a very important element, because when wages are raised, then there are expectations. It worked for eight years, but eventually the staff got upset and expected any movement from the state. We are constantly ahead of these elements, and the revision of the valuations by the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and by the National Health Fund is implemented, and this, either in the whole range, by increasing all the prices... Each year, the increase in valuations is carried out in many ranges as well as in individual cases, in accordance with the plan of tariffs. At the same time, as I said, there is this systemic increase in connection with the Lowest Compensation Act - the 20% that were specified. Of course, as I said before, there was an agreement between Professor Zembala. Later this was further specified by Minister Łukasz Szumowski. The Agreement transformed those remunerations which were previously included in the Agreement into basic remuneration. In general, we are primarily interested in what is the basic salary in health care according to the Act, and that is what we are based on. So we are not interested in the fact that the employee earns and has added additional funds to the basic salary. At present, compensatory allowances could still be used, possibly otherwise named. As far as medical personnel are concerned, it is also very important for us to have more of these staff, because we know that they were, to a large extent, staff of quite an average age. We have therefore decided very strongly that we will train staff and increase the number of staff in health care. This applies to all professional groups, ranging from doctors, nurses and other medical professions. We also increase the powers of these medical professions, in particular nurses, additional doctors' assistants or health care professionals. They have far higher powers. Now we're implementing the Act on Additional Medical Competitions. We have implemented several amendments to laws that increase powers, e.g. nurses and midwives in connection with the implementation of the strategy for nursing, which was adopted by the government. Of course, we have something to show for it, because this growth is very important. We know that we still have fewer medical staff than in the European part. Of course, we are in some disagreement with the OECD regarding the amount of medical staff that is not shown by the Central Statistical Office, it is about how the staff actually works, and we have definitely more doctors than the OECD shows. But we're increasing the number of higher education institutions for medical institutions that educate doctors: from 14 universities this number has already increased to 22 universities that train doctors, and over the past 6 years the number of places has increased by 2,000. Places. We have increased the number of places in the first year: now this is 9700, we have also increased the number of places for nurses and midwives, because this number from 74 universities that were in 2015 has increased to 107. This allowed for additional training, made it possible to train more staff and currently we have about 180 000. Doctors, that's 14,000. more than it was six years ago. As far as specialisation training is concerned, we are also trying very hard for every doctor to be able to specialise, especially in those specializations that are necessary for us, priorities that are better financed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now we're about 60%. doctors trained in these priority specialisations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. An additional question is asked by Mr Riad Haidar.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In one thing I agree with the Minister: we have very few medical staff - not many medical personnel at all. Only my question is, what do we have to do to keep this staff so that this staff doesn't flee the country abroad? That's one thing. Second thing. As regards the arrangements for doctors and nurses, the arrangements with former Minister Szumowski were not complied with. And my question. After COVID, many hospitals stopped performing medical procedures resulting from the specifics of the hospital. Of course, they got 1/12 so-called. A lump sum from the NFZ. My question is, will these hospitals now have to pay back the lump sum because they didn't follow the procedure? That's gonna make these hospitals go down. Thank you. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u58	Thank you. Mr Maciej Miłkowski again responds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u59	Thank you very much, also for agreeing that staff are needed, should be educated and well rewarded. So that we also care about not only the lowest salary, but also the average salary. Medical personnel, who are well qualified, carry out very unique medical procedures. These are world-class and European specialists and should make very good money. As far as staff departures are concerned, Minister Szumowski signed an agreement according to which, in fact, the Ministry of Health pays PLN 600 each month for the residency in addition to the non-priority specialization, and for the priority specialization - PLN 700, provided that these people will later work in the public health system. Pretty much 100%. persons receive these funds. Such a person signs an agreement that he wants to work in the health care system in Poland, does not plan to leave, i.e. he specializes to work in Poland. As far as the second element of the question is concerned, in the case of remuneration paid for the non-COVID period, there were two elements. There was a question about the hospitals that carried out the COVID benefits - this lump sum was reduced proportionally, calculated according to the performance of the previous year, so that these entities did not actually lose anything. It is a situation without precedent in recent years that hospitals that have carried out benefits in the field of COVID, in particular to a significant extent last year and this year, have made a significant profit. This was the best time for these medicinal products, because this was the financing system. We paid for standard benefits and additionally for COVID benefits. Only in the case of entities that could not have a fixed price, we paid 100% Because there was no basis for reference. As far as 1/12 is concerned, the hospital network law has been amended and the network has been extended until the end of this year. Consequently, the directors of the NFZ (The Bell) with all hospitals signed an agreement to extend the accounting period. It is also about other entities that have lump sum contracts by the end of this year and can carry out benefits, and there is an extended period until the end of this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u60	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Frederick Kapinos, Bolesław Piecha, Katarzyna Czochar and Tadeusz Chrzan from the Law and Justice Club on the training of doctors, nurses and medical technicians. The question is asked by Mr Frederick Kapinos. I think we need to turn on the mike. [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u61	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! One of the priorities of the United Rights Government is to improve the health system. For many years the health system in Poland has been neglected. The United Right Government regularly increases expenditure in this area. This includes: education of future medical staff. As a result, the number of doctors and nurses has gradually increased in recent years. The United Right Government is also successfully raising the salaries of medical personnel. All medical personnel should be well rewarded for their hard work. At the end of the PO-PSL coalition in 2014, expenditure on health care amounted to PLN 72.8 billion, i.e. 4.57% GDP. In 2020 expenditure on health care amounted to over PLN 123.7 billion, i.e. 5,85% GDP. The problem with the number of medical personnel the government inherited from its predecessors. Unfortunately, their governments and lack of real action have led to a reduction in the number of medical personnel. The Government of the United Right is not indifferent to this matter. He is constantly working to increase the number of doctors and nurses in Polish hospitals. At the end of 2010 PO-PSL coalition, the number of doctors and dentists engaged in the profession was 154,536. Thanks to the efforts of the United Right Government, this number is steadily increasing. At the end of 2020 we had 181 151 doctors and dentists engaged in a profession. That's an increase in the number of medical personnel by over 26,000. Increased admission limits for the 2020/2021 academic year for medical and dental courses are a total of 9717 places. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the academic year 2015/2016 this limit amounted to 7550 people. Thank you, sir. I'd like to ask you a question. What action has the Ministry taken in terms of the number of places in medical courses at universities to increase the number of trained in medical, nursing, medical rescue, and the number of residences in order to increase the number of specialists?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u62	Thank you. Mr Maciej Miłkowski corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u63	Dear Marshal, Thank you very much. Another question about human resources in health care and human resources that we have inherited. We know that the staff, first of all, must be, there must be an adequate number of employees, i.e. a whole range of medical personnel, ranging from doctors, nurses and other staff, to paramedics, physiotherapists and all the others, medical sterilization technicians or ladies. It's a whole team that performs benefits. As far as medical staff are concerned, the first basic thing, the Ministry of Health, by increasing the limits for studies, by increasing the number of places for providing benefits, places for training medical staff through the construction of new medical institutions, has increased the possibility for admissions to medical education by 2 000. places, i.e. Approximately 1/4. This has led us to have more doctors now than there were six years ago, which means fewer doctors retire than they power the labour market. Now in the new strategy, in the National Plan for Reconstruction, we are planning an additional 1 000. increase the number of training places for medical students in connection with new projects amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science, in which we plan to launch a loan for studies, which will be implemented for education, which will be remitted under certain conditions to those who will work in Poland. In addition, in order to increase and improve this university resource, a great deal of funding has been allocated to equipment, to increase the training capacity of medical staff, and now in the National Reconstruction Plan for the future years, funds of EUR 700 million have been secured for medical education institutions, with particular emphasis on these two main professional groups, namely nurses and doctors. We will want to increase the number of places of education, among others. by increasing the capacity of those schools that train nurses so that the best ones can start training places for doctors, in addition to training nurses. When it comes to residents and specializations, because we are interested not only in the number of people who supply the labour market, but also in education, specializations, we are constantly increasing the number of specialization places. This year, despite the pandemic in the current spring session, an additional 900 seats were launched in residential mode. Previously, when it comes to the spring session, this number was much lower. In 2015, it was about 300 people. Therefore, we are expanding this scope very much. As far as the number of specialisations is concerned, the priority areas of medicine are 22 areas that we consider to be priority areas for the health system, where we offer the possibility of residential education and pay the full salary. That's 22 specialties. We're gonna be analyzing for autumn, or we're not gonna increase that number, it's about some other specialties. These are different specialties, those where people are lacking, as well as those with which we see there will be a problem, because young doctors do not want to choose these specialties because of the too difficult learning process and too difficult learning. This is often the case for surgical specialties, e.g. cardio-toracosurgery. There's a lot of trouble out there. This is what you need to want and it is difficult to earn outside the public system, the health system. So that we plan to pay... We also plan to make this a priority specialization. As far as increases are concerned, as I said earlier, these increases were very clearly taken into account also in the case of interns doctors. 1300 PLN additionally received by doctors, and in respect of residents who start specialization, the amount was also very much increased: from 4790 to 5700 (The Bell), so that we really do it here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Kapinos will also ask an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u65	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, is constantly increasing the number of nursing schools. The number of schools accredited by the Ministry of Health to conduct a first-level nursing study increased from 74 in 2014 to 107 in 2020. This is about 33 universities more according to the state of 31 December 2020. The residential training this year will start as many as 900 doctors, and in 2015 it started 300 doctors. And I have an additional question: What will the Ministry of Health do in the coming years to increase the number of qualified doctors not only - it is already the Minister who said - but also nurses and paramedics?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u66	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask the Minister to answer me. Minister Maciej Miłkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u67	Thank you very much. In fact, I have focused mainly on the training of doctors, but the same applies to the training of nurses. The main point is to increase supply in medical schools where training of nurses is high. This is also an important element in increasing learning opportunities through the use of EU funds. In the past period, we have made very effective use of the resources allocated to the education of nurses and midwives. And we're increasing... This resulted in a virtually 40% increase in the recruitment of nurses in 2020/2021. It was 8200 places in first-grade schools compared to 5900 places in 2015. So that's a very important influence. As a result, the number of nurses increased by around 10,000 during this period. And now it's almost 260 thousand. But not only the quantity, but also the quality, the possibility of extending the range of activities of nurses and midwives is important. We're increasing these possibilities. Nurses may include: carry out more health services, may issue continued prescriptions, as well as new referrals to orders and medical devices. They can also provide advice on outpatient specialized care on their own. Nurses can issue free prescriptions for patients 75+. The obstetrics have the authority to carry out an uncomplicated pregnancy on their own, only with the cooperation of the doctor. At the same time they may issue orders, prescription for free medicines for pregnant women. We have established that nurses and midwives without additional courses may qualify for vaccination against COVID-19 and perform them. And it's very important to us. In the last year's law on increasing the number of medical personnel, we also enabled nurses to return to work, who for 5 years did not pursue their profession. It was a determined effort to make it easier for them to return to work so that they could carry out health benefits. That's important, too. Last year we also made it easier for nurses to start their profession (the bell) and doctors from countries outside the European Union who can supply medical staff in a simplified way during the epidemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u68	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members Jarosław Zieliński, Dariusz Piontkowski and Mieczysław Baszko from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the road of rapid traffic in the section Białystok - Augustów. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It enjoys the pace and scale of road construction throughout Poland under the rule of Law and Justice, including the construction of express roads. In north-eastern Poland these are the roads S8, S19 and S61. They should create, as everywhere, a coherent and functional communication system. It would be so if this plan of construction of express roads in this area of Poland was not affected by a flaw which the Minister knows, because we have often discussed it. This disadvantage is that since 2009, when express roads in the Podlaskie voivodship were changed - it was during the time of the PO-PSL government - a very important section, frequented, loaded with transit traffic, truck traffic, Białystok - Augustów, was excluded from this network of express roads. Roads must be built where they are most needed. Minister Andrzej Adamczyk always says so. That's a very wise, important sentence. And it is incomprehensible that this case has not been regulated and restored since the time of the PO-PSL government. During the last 10 years, 15.3 million heavy vehicles have passed through the village of Sztabin on this route of Białystok - Augustów. Only in July 2020, i.e. during the pandemic period, which is worth noting, passed around 15 thousand. vehicles within 1 month. This road performs many functions, Minister, and it cannot only be seen as one of the variants of the link between S19 and S61, because it is reducing its function and error of thinking. This is the shortest connection between the S19 and S8 express roads and the Białystok agglomeration to the border with Lithuania, the Baltic countries and, consequently, the Scandinavian countries. It also connects the two largest cities in the Podlaskie region, i.e. Białystok and Suwałki, through Augustów, the spa and tourist town. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What else do you need, what arguments to change this network of express roads and to complete this section of the network of roads planned and implemented in the North East of Poland? I'm asking for it, Minister... Thank you, sir. ...on behalf of not only your own but also of all the parliamentarians of the Podlaskie voivodship, numerous inhabitants who... Thank you very much, sir. ...leading petitions, local government officials, entrepreneurs, all of them. You'll have to take care of this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u70	Mr Rafał Weber, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, is responsible. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The development of the road network in each region of Poland is a priority of the Government of Law and Justice, a priority of the Ministry of Infrastructure. The modern infrastructure ensures safety, fluidity of traffic, comfort and comfort of driving. By creating a coherent network, we increase transport accessibility, so important in the context of social and economic development. Efficient communication solutions are something that clearly increases the status and values of a given region. It is difficult not only to talk about the right conditions for proper communication between the public, but also about the right conditions for conducting business. And it is through this prism that the Ministry of Infrastructure looks at road investments. We see in them the sine qua non condition of development opportunities in all aspects. Turning to the subject of the question by Mr Jarosław Zieliński or a group of Members, the question concerning the extension of the national road No. 8 in section Białystok - Augustów, I would like to confirm the intention of the Ministry of Infrastructure to improve the quality of this road even to parameters which correspond to some extent to express roads. Two options for implementing this investment are currently at stake. The first option is to expand the national eight as a link between Via Carpatia, S19 and Via Baltica, or S61, and it will basically become part of Via Carpatia. The General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways Branch in Bialystok analyses this issue and 60th one and S19 will connect this corridor through the extension or new string parallel to the national road No. 8 or the corridor between Knyszyn and Ełk. At the moment, two options are at stake. The results of this work will be learned in the fourth quarter of this year. Then we'll find out how S61 will be connected to S19. If it came from these environmental, social, technical and economic analyses, that it is better and more realistic to combine the 60th one and the 19th through the corridor Knyszyn - Elk, i.e. through sixteenth, then DK8 will be subject to a thorough reconstruction and improvement of its parameters even to the road with the parameters of the expressway, i.e. to the road 2+1. As I say, at the end of this year, after the analyses that are being carried out at the moment, it will be decided which of these options will be implemented. However, in order not to wait only for these issues, we will introduce investments involving the construction of bypasses on the national road No 8. Thanks to the government program of the construction of 100 ring road bypasses by the Sztabin ring road, i.e. the town mentioned by Mr Suchowola and Białobrzegów - these investments were included in the government bypass programme of 100 bypasses. They are on the basic list, they have secured funds, which is important, and they are implemented. In the case of the Suchowola and Sztabina bypasses, tenders were announced in December of the previous year for the selection of contractors, and in the case of the Białobrzeg ring road this invitation to tender will be announced next year. At the moment, a software concept is being developed. The contract for the construction of the Suchowola ring road was concluded on 14 May this year, and on 28 May this year. A contract has been signed for the Štabin ring road. And I want to stress that these are executive agreements. These are the last contracts that concern the execution of these investments. So there were design issues, then obtaining construction permits and entering the construction site. In 2025, these investments will be put into use and will be used for communication in the Podlaskie Voivodeship, so that I think that from the point of view of the investment process it is a really distant perspective. The construction of these bypasses will improve the security of the inhabitants of the region. The communication system will be relieved and the capacity of the national road 8 will be increased between Białystok and Augustow at a distance of approx. 25 km. In the case of inter-obtrusive sections on the eight, it should be pointed out that to date final environmental decisions have been obtained, which is very important because working on environmental decisions is very time-consuming and increasingly difficult. As I said at the beginning, depending on what comes out of the analysis of S61 and S19... [[♪ The bell ♪]] These environmental analyses will be used and will be used either for the construction of the S8 expressway between Bialystok and Augustów, and in fact further, to the 60th one, or for DK8 extension to section 2+1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u72	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked again by Mr Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u73	Minister! I call for a change of perspective. Because you say yes or yes, which means you and the infrastructure department are still treating this as a link between S19 and S61. I showed you, and in the speeches it was repeatedly shown that these functions have more. This is an episode of one of the main communication arteries in Poland and in international traffic. This is the road with the highest volume of truck traffic, heavy vehicles - or in second place, it takes first or second place - and I can still hear the answer that if it comes out of the analysis it may be an express road in another section, and here may be a road with higher parameters. This road should be an express road. She was such a road in the rule of law and justice in 2005-2007, PO-PSL changed that. Why does the resort insist not to restore this original, good plan? Indeed, all arguments prove that this is the case. All other options are additional, complementary. This should be the first, most important decision. Minister! [[♪ The bell ♪]] A huge request to change the perspective of looking at this case. This is the last moment for this. And the bypass, of course, yes, thank you very much, it's all good and it's happy, but it doesn't do the trick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u74	Thank you. Replying again to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u75	Ladies and gentlemen! It is worth looking at the communication system in Podlaskie voivodship and wider, in this north-eastern part of the Republic, as an international arrangement, yes? Because there are high-speed roads that are either already communicating, or in a moment they will communicate our country with neighbouring countries. The road that will take over the number of transits especially heavy vehicles is the S61 expressway, Via Baltica. She's in on all the episodes. The first sections will start to function, will be put into service already this year, the remaining ones - in 2022 and 2023. At the end of this investment, it will take over almost the entire transit traffic towards Lithuania and beyond, to the Baltic States. So that this communication route will not only fulfil its function in terms of transport load relief of Podlaskie or Warmia-Mazurskie voivodships, but it will also be one of the main international corridors... [[He's not gonna take over from a 19-year-old.]] ...in parallel complementing the Via Carpatia road as such a connection in the southeast, but also the northeast part of our country. On the other hand, as far as DK8 is concerned, we are going further in one of the options than the Member is proposing. Because the Member calls for this road to be realized between Białystok and Augustow, but if the analysis comes out that its construction is more real than the construction of the sixteenth, then its implementation It will be from Bialystok to the 60th alone, which is to the vicinity of Suwałk. [[That's how I understand it.]] So that, perhaps, I would stress: perhaps - and this will come from environmental, technical, economic and of course social analyses - we will go further than you mean, further than you articulate. [[No. That's how I understand it.]] So that saying that the Ministry of Infrastructure has abandoned some action or does not care about the region of Podlaskie, is not such a thing, to put it mildly. S19 budgeted thanks to the decisions of the Government of Law and Justice of 2017 and subsequent systematic increase of this amount in 2019 and 2020 are implemented 60 1 fully under construction and bypasses which I mentioned earlier. Government Road Development Fund and very high amount for Podlaskie Voivodship. One of the powiats in 2 years received, ladies and gentlemen, PLN 120 million under the Government Road Development Fund. Just one county. So that talking about the Ministry of Infrastructure doesn't meet communication needs in the war. It's just... [[You're twisting my words. I was talking about this one episode.]] ...a gentle incompetence, because we have to look comprehensively at all these investments, and those in Podlasie are really a lot. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u76	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members Anna Milczanowska, Mariusz Trepka, Teresa Pamuła and Arkadiusz Mularczyk from the Law and Justice Club will ask a question about the construction of national roads and motorways. The first question will be asked by Mrs Teresa Pamuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Road investments are crucial for the development not only of communication or transport, but also of comprehensive development of the Republic of Poland. A coherent network of safe, comfortable and comfortable roads is the key to improving the economic potential of individual regions of Poland. Currently, the Ministry of Infrastructure performs road tasks, among others. through the National Road Construction Programme with a view to 2025 Within this programme, the network of high-speed roads is expanded by thousands of kilometres. In each, I stress: investments are carried out in each region of Poland. The strategic road investment for Podkarpacie is Via Carpatia. Connecting to the North-South axis for my voivodship is an opportunity to improve communication and much better contact not only with other regions of our country, but also with neighbouring countries. Via Carpatia is a route that connects Baltic countries with countries in southern Europe. The international nature of this road makes Poland one of the main corridors of the Old Continent. The fact that this investment is being carried out is based on the development strategy of the Government of Law and Justice. The nullification of the non-communicational exclusion of less developed regions is the objective of the government and the Ministry of Infrastructure. It is through the National Road Construction Programme that we are catching up on investment. If not for the current government decisions, many of the investments would simply not have been implemented, and Via Carpatia is the best example of this. The Government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party did not see the need for financial security for this investment. [[Just like the PiS.]] Only the activity and effectiveness of Minister Andrzej Adamczyk, MEPs or parliamentarians led to the allocation of funds within the PBDK for Via Carpatia throughout its course. Minister! Please inform me, [[♪ The bell ♪]] how the implementation of the National Road Construction Programme looks like today. How many tasks are in the implementation phase and how many are in the preparatory work? Has the COVID-19 pandemic made these investments difficult? What steps have been taken to ensure that the investment processes of road reconstruction are not stopped but carried out?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u78	Thank you, Member. Mr Rafał Weber, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, is responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen! The programme, which you are asking if you are asking Members, i.e. the 2014-2023 national road construction programme with a view to 2025, is an essential document adopted by the Government. It indicates investment objectives, of course road objectives, and secures funds to achieve these objectives. Thanks to the efforts of the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk over the last 5 years, the limit of this programme has been raised several times, and raising the limit is new investments that have financial security and can be implemented. The original value of the programme is PLN 107 billion, i.e. this value from the end of 2015 and the current value is PLN 164 billion, i.e. PLN 57 billion more. And this is the measure of the authentic effectiveness of Minister Andrzej Adamczyk, but also of the entire government of Law and Justice, now Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, and earlier Prime Minister Beata Szydło, because the limit was increased by a government resolution. We are aware that road infrastructure is an important element, such an essential factor for the proper functioning and development of the economy of the whole Republic. The modern and coherent road network is one of the goals that Poland has pursued in recent years. The construction of 103 tasks worth nearly PLN 48 billion and a length of 1356 km have been completed by completing this goal through the National Road Construction Programme. In the construction there are another 109 investments worth PLN 67 billion and a length of 1434 km. On the other hand, in the tender we have 15 tasks worth almost PLN 8 billion and a length of more than 177 km. In total, taking into account the kilometers alone, this is almost 80% planned length of new highways in Poland. During the rule of law and justice, the network of high-speed roads was increased from 3020 km to 4321 km, i.e. by 43%. This is the best proof that we are able to carry out investment work effectively and effectively, despite difficult circumstances, e.g. pandemics that have been around for over a year. Importantly, ladies and gentlemen, road investments are carried out in every region of our country. I would stress that in all of them. In every voivodship. E.g. In Lubuskie voivodship, we eliminate the longest stairs in the world, i.e. we raise the parameters of A18, so that it is the 21st century motorway, in Western Pomerania we realize S3, in Pomerania - S6, in Łódź voivodship and in Silesia - A1, in Mazowsze - A2 and S7, in Mazury - S16, in Podlasie - mentioned earlier Via Baltica and Via Carpatia, in Lublin - S12, S17 and of course Via Carpatia, in Świętokrzyskie voivodship - S74. These are just some examples of investments that we're doing, but you can verify it, you can check it out. Investments in high-speed roads are carried out in every region, in all 16 voivodships of our country. On the other hand, with regard to Via Carpatia - yes, in fact, this is one of the key investments that are implemented by the Government of Law and Justice. Minister Andrzej Adamczyk and I treat it as an inheritance, as a specific will of the President of the Republic of Poland. Lecha Kaczyński, who already initiated actions to build this road on the international route in 2006. Conference in Lancut on the initiative of the President and joint with Hungary, with Slovakia and Lithuania declaration It was in 2006 that they started the process of emphasising the validity of Via Carpatia. Of course, the Civic Platform and PSL government had other plans, didn't see any sense in building this road... [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] ...even the representatives of the Civic Platform protested strongly against... [[They gave you the bill.]] ...discussion on this subject... [[In 2010 the Chain Declaration.]] ...in the European Parliament in 2014 But we as Law and Justice consistently since taking over responsibility for Polish affairs let us realize Via Carpatia. We use nearly PLN 30 billion to build it. A significant part of this funding was provided in the national road construction programme in 2017. Later, with subsequent amendments to this programme, these funds were gradually expanded, gradually expanded. So that this is the picture of road investments, investments consisting in the construction of high-speed roads as part of the national road construction programme. Consecutively, with great determination, despite pandemic difficulties, we are pursuing the intended objectives and we hope that the picture of road reality in Poland will continue to change very quickly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u80	Thank you. An additional question is asked by Mrs Anna Milczanowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u81	Thank you, Minister, for your information. We want modern infrastructure to function as soon as possible, because it has an overall impact on Poland's development. I would like to hear more about the state of completion of Via Carpatia. I am particularly concerned about the answers to such questions: When will the sections between Rzeszow and Lublin be used? How do you draw this investment south of Rzeszow to the Barwinek border? This road is essential for social development, and that is why we want to do it. Via Carpatia in Podkarpacie will give you a new impulse. But we know very well that this is not just about Podkarpat, although I am asking questions about episodes. it's built there because it's international, and it's a very important road for our country. It is a key investment project and it is important that we hear, we would like to hear what its implementation looks like. Please (the bell) for information about this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u82	Once again, Minister Rafał Weber answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u83	Thank you very much. Using the presence of the former Minister of Infrastructure, who spoke here about Via Carpatia and that he wanted to carry out this project, I will tell you how this project was carried out just by the Civic Platform in the Podkarpackie Jasionka - Sokołów Małopolska section. It was made by your bad decisions in 2+1 standard. Not on the full parameters of the 2+2 expressway, but in the standard just 2+1. [[In 2005? It was you who ruled in 2005.]] It is a very big profession, Minister, for the inhabitants of Podkarpacie and for all those who remain in this infrastructure. But that's a mistake we're fixing. [[And the nodes on S14 who cut them out?]] That's a mistake we're fixing. By decision of Minister Andrzej Adamczyk, the 2018 investment programme was launched... [[Minister... in 2005. So what did you do?]] ...consisting on building another belt on this section of Via Carpatia. And we're building the remaining full-size expressway, which is 2+2. Back to your question, the first episodes of Via Carpatia between Rzeszow and Lublin will be put into service this year. Ba, even one on the last Monday was given as part of the temporary organization of traffic. In a year's time, the capitals of Lubelskie and Podkarpackie Voivodships will be connected by fast traffic, Via Carpatia. If we are talking about stretches south of Rzeszow, then the one with a very long tunnel between Rzeszow South and Babica is already being designed. It is enough to say that the value of such a contract, covering 10 km, is PLN 2200 million and it was also necessary to have the courage to devote so much money to such a project. But it's really worth it, it'll pay off, it'll pay off. The remaining two contracts will be signed in the near future, and with the course of this year the last three tenders will be announced for the construction of these sections between Rzeszow and the state border with Slovakia. It is similar if we are talking about episodes in Lublin Voivodeship. When it comes to Lublin - Lubartów, the contract is signed, the road is designed. Six contracts for implementation were signed in Podlaskie Voivodship. Further tenders are being prepared and will be subsequently announced. Via Carpatia will operate in this corridor of the S19 expressway at the turn of 2025 and 2026. We have nothing left but according to the declarations, as promised to implement this investment, but - as I said earlier - also a number of other investments, the expressway S14 in the Łódź voivodship (Dzwonek), also to improve road infrastructure in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u84	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. MEPs Krzysztof Gawkowski, Robert Obaz, Magdalena Bejat, Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Marek Rutka, Joanna Senyszyn, Przemysław Koperski, Dariusz Wieczorek, Monika Falej, Paulina Matysiak, Katarzyna Kotula, Robert Kwiatkowski, Karolina Pawliczak, Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk and Paweł Krutul, Leżya, ask the President of the Council of Ministers about the conduct of negotiations with the Czech party before the Court of Justice of the European Union issued an order for the immediate cessation of coal extraction and the cessation of works in the Turów mines and after its issue. The question is asked by Mr Robert Obaz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u85	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You're actually the face of what's going on in these negotiations. You're being assisted by Minister Sasin, but he's only experienced in organizing elections. You treat the inhabitants of Bogatyn, the districts of Zgorzelecki, Lubanski, Bolesławiecki as pawns on chessboards, which you move according to political needs. First, with the Czech protests since 2016, you have done absolutely nothing, and for a public consultation with the residents of the Czech border, you have invited a translator who did not know the technical language. Then, in 2020, it is not known why you temporarily extended the concession for the operation of the mine until 2026 to extend it until 2044 during the earlier elections in the city. Now there is conflicting information that the mine, yes, will function, but perhaps not as long as it assumes an extended coal concession. Again, the question arises: What about the residents, what about the workplaces? Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you: how exactly did the negotiations with the Czech party take place, both pending the announcement of the TSUE ordering the mine to cease its work and shortly after its announcement? How many negotiating meetings have been held, within what deadlines and in what composition? What exactly is the subject of negotiations and at what stage Today is the preparation of the agreement, and when is it planned to be signed? Given the consequences of the mine's closure, and also the prospect of the decommissioning of the power plant, how does your government intend to ensure socio-economic security for the region of Bogatyn and thousands of its inhabitants?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u86	Thank you very much. The question is answered by Minister Piotr Dziadzio from the Ministry of Climate and Environment. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to give you, as far as possible, information about what the government has done, what the situation in the Bogatynia and the Turów mine looks like, based on the facts, on what has been written down. I think it's a good idea for us to pass this on to you right now. First of all, I would like to say to you that the government of the Republic of Poland attaches the utmost importance to finding the possibility of a friendly solution and ending the dispute with the Czech Republic regarding the potential consequences of the operation of the Turów mine. In recent years, permanent contacts have been maintained at a working level between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on cooperation on cross-border environmental impact assessments for the area of the Turów mine. Regular meetings were also held at ministerial level. At the same time, although we had a dialogue, the Czech side has consistently raised the issue of the negative environmental impact of the Turów mine from time to time, including the decline in groundwater, groundwater, landslides, bad air quality, pollination, noise, etc. Let me remind you that the mine has been in operation for 100 years. The operation process takes a very long time, the impact of this operation is spread over many, many years. In mid- 2019 there was a strong increase in the Czech side's raising of the problem of the operation of the Turów mine. Rzeczpospolita Polska has always responded to the demands of the Czech party. In March 2020, the Czech Deputy Minister for the Environment Vladislav Smrz explicitly admitted that the case was political and related to regional elections. In December 2020, he again stressed that there is political pressure in the region and that the Czech opposition in their government is forcing decisive action on the Czech Government. These are the facts that are opening up the whole problem for us. The Republic of Poland has always responded to all the demands of the Czech party. Regardless of this, 23 and 24 September 2020 - I give you examples of contacts here - Minister Paweł Jabłoński took part in the conference on the Tri-Morza initiative during his visit to Prague and there were talks there, among others. about Turov. However, 30 September 2020. The Czech Republic has made a complaint to the European Commission about an alleged infringement of European law by the Republic of Poland in connection with the extension and extension of concessions for mining activities in Turów. Next. On 23 October 2020, a meeting was held between the Under-Secretary of State of Minister Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński and the Deputy Minister of the Environment of the Czech Republic Vladislaven Smrzem on the margins of the Council's meeting. The environment in which the Turov case was also discussed. On 30 October the Republic of Poland made written observations and forwarded them to the Czech Republic on the complaint. Next, representatives of the Czech Republic and the Republic of Poland participated in the hearing by the European Commission on 13 November, which took place online, during which the arguments of the Polish party were presented. It was a long discussion and such meetings that preceded this meeting on 13 November, there was more. They were conducted online, there were also phone calls, teleconferences during which we discussed the justification of the arguments of the Czech party in terms of claims and expectations. So we had a dialogue with the Czech side the whole time. An important conference was held on 11 November 2020 with representatives of the Ministry of Climate and Environment. In addition to Minister Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński I, representatives of the Czech Republic and representatives of PGE took part. During the extensive discussion, for the first time, huge claims from the Czech Republic were made, saying that, on our part, i.e. from the Republic of Poland, the environmental principles and aspects must be covered. These claims amounted to more than EUR 60 million. A further meeting with representatives of the Czech Republic took place on 27 November 2020, and the same topic was discussed at all times as to how to define this point in our agreement. So that the dialogue was conducted, as you can see from these facts, for a very long time. 3 December 2020 Republic of Poland... Get close to the end, Minister, because it's time. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: I'm gonna finish this. I'm gonna try to finish this. I'm just presenting the facts, because they're very important for us to tell you how important this is. [[Yeah, but we do, too.]] Well, the Czechs know it, but they won't accept it. Okay, I'll pass... [[Voice from the room: Do you think you can convince us?]] I think you're convinced that we did what we had to do, and we actually did. [[Nothing's been done at all.]] We're gonna talk about this right now. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the dialogue that has been conducted since 2019. Dialogue with the Czech side was conducted very intensively, there were very intensive talks. We've proposed our solutions. They partly fit into the interest of the Czech side as well as were agreed expectations on the Czech side. There was a discussion about the filter screen, the construction of a special ground-forest curtain or the ground-tree curtain, which will cover from dust, noise and will provide such a visual shield from the mine from the Czech side. There were also discussions on the construction and leaking of the screen we are talking about, and the Czech side despite the fact that PGE started building this screen much, much earlier and finished it at almost 90% He doesn't accept it, and he won't accept it. It constantly claims that they have problems with the lack of water from quaternary works, because there is a decrease in groundwater levels rather than groundwater. Czechs do not have ground water levels, those of neogean, which are exploited by the Turów mine. Therefore, there is a problem of lack of understanding, while the lack of water, which is raised as the main element in the dispute, directly does not affect the mine. Of course, it has indirectly, because the depressive funnel is and arises, but they do not want to accept our arguments in this respect, that in the Czech Republic, the border area, there is a large gravel pit directly. In the area of water capture Uhelná, which is a conflicting problem for us, where the depressive funnel that arises draws this water from the water shot Uhelná. Therefore, we have this problem: they do not provide us with information, data, and we show the data we have, and they do not really want to accept it. We have repeatedly asked for committees, geological and hydrogeological data, which have not yet been made available. Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: We, for our part, have made available virtually most of the information that the Czech party wanted. And that's the story I've been wanting to shorthand. Of course, we're at the stage we're at. 17 December 2020 The Republic of Poland has received a reasoned opinion from the Commission. Here we recognise the result of the European Commission, the result of the evaluation. 26 February 2021 The Czech Republic referred the action against the Republic of Poland to the Court of Justice. [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, we already know that.]] That's what you know. That's all you know, isn't it? [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] [[Voice from the room: Another supplementary question.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Good. I'm the one who presented the information that we had a dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. You had a double time. Please, an additional question, Mr Robert Obaz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You lied so much here that you couldn't fit in your head because GiEK SA issued an official announcement in which she said that this year she started In fact, the construction of this screen, which is supposed to pass through the water, will end it in 2023, so it's not made in 90%. That's what you tell me. Since 2016, you have been negotiating and in 2020 you learn what the Czechs expect. Gentlemen, resign because it doesn't make sense. The most important thing... I hope that all these questions will be answered in writing, on behalf of all the Members who have signed up for this. But, Minister, what about the transformation of this region? The people of this region spoke in favour of closing the mine by 2035. Only you didn't provide any money for it (the bell), money for the transformation. We asked that, too. I think we're gonna get an answer now. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u90	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome to do it again if you'd like, but it's so short.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u91	Very briefly. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, From the information we have from the Polish Energy Group, it appears that the screen is 90% realized. In 90% it is realized one year earlier than expected in the EIA Decision. [[And if the house is built in 90%, is it or isn't it?]] That's my information directly from PGE. Affirmative. [[So, no.]] Very intensive negotiations were conducted with the Czech party. They came to the fore before the local elections, and at the moment before the elections, this is a very clear political issue. Still as regards the petition of the inhabitants - the same inhabitants also wrote a petition that they wanted to maintain the mine. [[Yes, sir. I signed it myself.]] The Member himself signed it. [[Until 2035. Yes.]] But it's about keeping the mine, isn't it? About operating in-service operations. So in a nutshell, you can answer the questions asked. Affirmative, the screen is here. He's accepted. I've even seen some reception protocols that are already in March, partly of course. 200, as I recall, are made of 200 injection holes - also for today - as much as is planned. On the other hand, the second point about the screen is that if this screen does not pass the exam as much as it was founded - because this is always a design assumption - then PGE is interested in expanding the screen quickly, urgently and deepening it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u92	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information on energy security of Poland (Turów Mine, Green Transformation, Baltic Pipe, Photovoltaics, Bełchatów Power Plant) will be discussed and presented by the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak. You're welcome. [[Mask. The other one. Coalition.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u93	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Current information on energy security of Poland including Turów mines, green transformation, Baltic Pipe, photovoltaics, Bełchatów Power Plant. Where are we on energy security? Throughout the previous term and part of the current government, the PIS dreamt of coal power, losing years of the need for transformational changes, acting against RES, e.g. Act 10H, or not expanding networks so that they can accept growing prosumer production e.g. in photovoltaics. Further versions of Poland's energy policy did not define changes in the necessary scale. The state continues to block distributed civic energy by supporting failing energy companies, as there are still long-term RES development procedures, and there are no clear rules of conduct for public authorities, e.g. WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, WAIT. The government is taking a step forward, for example. with the funding of the programme, my current, and then it goes back, introducing far worse solutions for photovoltaics and inhibiting its development. There is still no law introducing a new kind of prosumers, e.g. collective prosumers or virtual prosumers. At the same time the price of energy is rising, which increases the price of CO emission allowances At the same time, state energy companies: PGE, Tauron, Enea lost on average the value of shares within 5 years of around 65%. This is the result of a wrong government policy, like leaving, for example. PGE and the Turów mines themselves. We have just heard about the whole schedule of talks with the Czech side, but the final part is important, and the final part is the failure of business diplomacy. It seems that the climate ministry has not led to effective negotiations, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Is this due to the understatement of the subject, or to the conviction that we are right, or to the underappreciation of the Czechs and their choices that have caused the problem that we have right now? During the meeting of the Energy Committee, we called for responsibility for negotiations with the Czech party and before the Court of Justice of the European Union to be personalised. It is shocking that the Court of Justice of the European Union has not accepted objectively the arguments which should cause such a judgment not to arise. The question is who conducted these negotiations and what were the arguments. In our special position at the committee meeting, we also asked the Prime Minister to effectively negotiate the operation of the Turów mine in the crisis situation we are in. The members of the PS were against it. They don't want the Prime Minister involved in these negotiations. Why? Didn't they want the Prime Minister to risk his authority in these negotiations? Or do they think the Turov problem will solve itself, perhaps by Minister Sasin, we'll see. In addition, there is an accident in Belchatów and the need to answer the question of what next with this largest power plant. What about the atom in Bełchatów, in Pątnów? It's not about declarations, it's about concrete. We demand specifics. Poland's attitude towards the largest European project - Green Deal is unclear. We still do not know whether Poland will adopt climate neutrality in 2050 and we do not know whether the condition limiting the Fair Transformation Fund by 50% will apply to us. There is a missing strategic document for the transformation of Polish energy and industry - funds from KPO, modernisation fund, proceeds from the sale of CO emission allowances Finally, a social agreement with the miners. Is this agreement based on real and true arrangements? What about the notification in the European Union? What about the brown coal miners? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u94	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment of Minister Piotr Dziada. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u95	Ladies and gentlemen! I will still allow myself to supplement this information, which I have not been able to complete, because, as you can see, 5 minutes to provide short information on Turowa is not enough, even 10 minutes is not enough. [[That's another topic.]] I know, but this subject has been raised again. Ladies and gentlemen! The path of the Polish energy transition, including the low-carbon one, in the long term is determined by the Polish energy policy of 2040 adopted by the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2021. Energy policy is an action plan for modernising and modernising the energy sector and transforming the energy sector in a responsible, efficient, effective way, with a guarantee of energy security. The strategy lists investments aimed at increasing the share of energy from low carbon energy sources and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. This is about the complementarity of this policy. One of the biggest challenges we need to face will be to ensure that climate and energy policy objectives are met in a fair transition, contributing to improving air quality and environmental status. We aim to ensure that the changes are of a participatory nature, i.e. they are carried out locally, taking into account the active role of end-users. What should be underlined in this context? Firstly, the basis is here, and will be, determination in terms of energy security by covering the demand for power of own generation resources. This is the aim of the Polish energy policy programme, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers in October 2020. This document provides for the commissioning in Poland of a nuclear power plant with total installed capacity between 6 and 9 GW. The first nuclear block will be put into service by 2033. Nuclear technology and its importance, you know, I'm going to skip it and I'm not going to justify why it's so important for energy security. Pending a stable basis for the operation of the electricity system, i.e. pending the construction of the power plant, the creation of nuclear power, it is necessary to ensure the availability and controllable capacity to secure the system. The main instrument to ensure the introduction of new units into the system is the power market. At this point, I would like to signal that the Council of Ministers adopted yesterday a draft amendment to the Power Market Act, which aims to increase the efficiency of this instrument. Soon this project will go to parliament. The Polish energy system also passed the last practical test, such stress test, resistance resulting from the crash that took place in Rogów, and withdrawal of blocks in Bełchatów. This failure caused the blocks to be turned off - as you know, because it was here that I was reporting - and showed that the Polish system was so efficient that there were no interruptions in energy supply. The effect of the primary reserve operation in the continental Europe system has resulted in an immediate supply of power to the national electricity system, complementing the loss of power. It was the most important issue to discuss. So we have this test: the national electricity system works and functions. The system worked properly, which means that there was no risk of disconnecting customers. At this point, reference should be made to the consequences of the interim vice-president of the Court of Justice's decision to immediately cease mining in the Brunette Coal Mine, as I would like to tell you. The effects of the crash in Bełchatów would have been much more serious if the Turów plant had not operated, which would have resulted in the immediate cessation of coal mining in the Turów mine. So if we hadn't delivered coal to the power plant in Turów, and we had this situation that we're talking about, we wouldn't have security. I will now return to the issue of energy transformation. Energy transformation requires energy security on the basis of stable sources, which make it possible to integrate renewable energy sources into the energy system. In this respect, the Polish energy policy points to the main role of natural gas as a transitional fuel. PEP 2040 sets the framework for both investment in generation sources and diversification of supply and expansion of gas network infrastructure - this is the third specific objective of energy policy. Within this objective, the strategic project is the construction of Baltic Pipe. The Baltic Pipe project is a large, long-term, very complicated investment. The recent situation - the formal repeal of one of the investment decisions - may occur with each investment. We are in constant contact with the Danish side, with the Danish authorities, investors who keep us informed about the situation. President Andrzej Duda also held talks on this issue at the NATO Summit, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki or Deputy Minister of Climate and Environment Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński at the last EU Council meeting. We see here quite a lot of will and determination from our Danish partners to complete this investment, and we must thank them for it. The environmental decision repealed concerned only one of the 5 parts of the Baltic Pipe project. All other parts of the Baltic Pipe construction are continuing, and I confirm that. Baltic Pipe is part of the policy of diversification of natural gas supplies to Poland, effectively implemented since 2015. The expansion of cross-border connections and expansion of the LNG terminal in Świnoujście - these are investments that are implemented simultaneously and whose implementation is not threatened and at the same time constitute energy security of our country. I would also like to emphasise that energy policy also sees issues related to renewable energy sources. As part of the energy transition, the share of RES will increase while the necessary development of flexible reserve capacity, network infrastructure and energy storage will be necessary. According to the PEP 2040 programme, in the next 10 years every third MWh of energy and heat produced will come from renewable units. In the field of renewable energy, we pay particular attention to the most stable technologies. Politics is concentrated, among others. at offshore wind power. It is assumed that production from offshore wind farms will have a greater share in the production of electricity produced from RES. The capacity installed in the 2030 perspective will reach almost 6 GW and in 2040 will reach 11 GW. At the same time as the development of large-scale energy will develop prosumer distributed energy, civic energy. An important advantage of RES is the possibility of exploiting local potential, including less developed regions and rural areas. However, this energy should serve to strengthen energy security, complement the generation of central sources and transfer energy self-sufficiency to local levels - these are the assumptions. Consumers, active consumers, including prosumers, cooperatives, energy communities and clusters play a key role in achieving the flexibility needed to adapt the distributed electricity system. Without the flexibility provided by energy consumption, the transformation of the energy sector seems impossible. I am moving to photovoltaics, which (The Bell) has become a very important element of RES in Poland... [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] ...which is mainly related to the development of programs such as my current. Here we observe the dynamic development of the prosumer area. In order to ensure the continued stable development of this sector, it is also necessary to modify the clearing system. What we are talking about today is that, at the beginning of June, the Ministry of Climate and Environment presented for wide consultation and agreement a draft amendment to the law regulating these objectives so that we can ensure the greatest possible role of RES from Prosumer Energy and that distributed energy can function steadily. That is why such action has been taken. We proposed, among others. The innovative solutions needed to improve the functioning of the energy market and this new system that has been proposed are in line with the European Union's climate policy and European law. The new prosumer system will retain the basic objective. The Prosumer will have the possibility to reduce electricity bills. [[Okay, here's the question.]] Okay, maybe that's the question, because I have a lot of interesting information for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u96	Then perhaps in the next speech the Minister will be able to answer. We'll see how you answer the questions that will be. You'll have extra time. Thank you very much. If any of you and your fellow Members wish to address the question, please. I'm closing the list. Mr Marek Suski, First Member, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. [[There it is.]] [[He's here, he's here.]] I didn't see you. I'm sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u97	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted, first of all, to express my appreciation - and, on the other hand, my surprise - for Mr. Tomasz Nowak, that in such a short time he had made so many untruths, misrepresentations, lies and, in fact, criticisms, although I cannot condemn him for criticism, because the Platform, or actually the opposition, can do nothing but criticism. Ladies and gentlemen, I only have two minutes... [[But you've already wasted a lot, easy.]] ...in fact, it's been a minute and a half, so I can't relate to everything. One aspect that the honourable Member has raised here is that Members were opposed to quick, effective negotiations involving the Prime Minister. At the committee meeting, because we had many meetings of committees devoted to energy, two on Turov, the state in fact demanded that the Polish government quickly conclude an agreement on Czech terms, regardless of whether the Czechs are right or wrong. The whole debate showed that the Czechs were trying to get as much money as possible from us. We have an opposition in Poland, which actually stands on the side of the Czech Republic and is still urging the government to conclude this agreement as soon as possible, even though Minister Dziadzio presented the balance sheet, it can be said that the water and therefore it was the Czechs who dug up the gravel pit to which the water flows and for a good cause it is not Turov's fault. Time is running out, so I can only say that I would like to see opposition in Poland, which will stand on the side of Polish interests (the bell) and not on the side of business... [[And I would like a new government, a new minister.]] Polish business, not government. Polish business. [[A wise minister.]] And you are on the side of the business of anyone who wants to invade Poland and do business. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u98	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What Mr Suski has just presented is simply a statement. These words, which are again coming from the speaker just as the President of the Energy Committee on traitors has done, are unworthy words. We are Polish patriots and we also understand the energy interest of Poland. For us, the Turov mine is very important and should operate until the end of the 1930s, we are talking about it decisively. The proposal of the position we have reached was precisely this: the commitment to effective negotiations carried out by Prime Minister Morawiecki with the Czech Government in order to safeguard the interests and functioning of the Turów mine. That was the case, and please don't insinuate us with any bad suggestions. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Minister about one thing, without any political question or concern. However, the amendment of the Photovoltaice Act will be based on trading, because it will have to be sold, the Prosumer will sell energy at wholesale prices and will buy it at retail prices. At this point in time, trade will take place, and umbrella projects, projects from regional operational programmes, in which many municipalities and many residents of these municipalities are currently involved, can receive funding of 85%. When there's no commercial aspect. The moment there is a commercial aspect, as in this case, it will only be possible to receive funding of 50%. Please, Minister, pay attention to this and make sure that we do not have a mass withdrawal from this PV business, as it is now, in the face of 50% plus bad solutions (the bell), prospects for worse solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u100	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Energy prices for the last year have increased by 9.5%. It's a lot, it's a lot and it's going to be an upward trend, because all the signs in the sky and the earth point to it. The Minister of Finance just now, in the previous point, said that the rise in electricity prices is the main factor of inflation. Yes, it is. The state with renewable energy has been plotting for six years now. First of all, you've blocked the windmills, and now you're saying you're gonna build twice as expensive at sea. The point, the logic - it had to be solved somehow. You were blocking the photovoltaics on our rooftops. Right now, as a great success, you've been announcing for a few months what happened. Yes, indeed. Poles want to invest in renewable energy, but we need to look at it rationally. Today you want to block all this because what you're saying is that renewable prosumer energy is going to grow is not true. It's not true. You were scared that Poles wanted to generate too much energy themselves, they wanted to be independent as they did all over the world, all over Europe. It's too much money to give the Poles so they can even earn money, but it's rational because they help you, they invest their own money. What you want to do right now is drama. You just want to block the development of renewable energy. And now I am. The market, the power bill - is modified. You mean what? That the burden will continue to increase? 'Cause that's what I'm supposed to be hearing. The government has adopted a power law, i.e. an additional burden for Poles from the title (The Bell) of the power law. I would ask very much for a rational approach to the subject, because in fact over the coming years you will completely slow down the enthusiasm of Poles to become involved in the modernisation of our energy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We listened, we looked at you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u103	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The energy security of Poland is undoubtedly connected with the green transformation, with the energy transformation. This is the way we should go, and very quickly follow it, because it de facto means energy sovereignty, it means energy security. And when we see what the government is doing, which is in an absolutely absurd way it extends concessions for fossil fuels by even a few decades, I have the impression that this is pushing the brake pedal almost to the floor. And when we hear that the state is going to change the energy billing rules that are derived from photovoltaics, it's like the brake that's pressed into the floor, lift it handy to the very end. This is what the government is doing today when it comes to energy transformation, about promoting prosumers, about supporting this green energy generated by nature. Question for the government. Is it really that you have decided to stop this energy transformation, stop the entry into the green energy path and simply continue to poison society with fossil fuels? And society is looking forward to a change today. Society today expects it to breathe clean air, that children will be healthy, that there will be no sickness, that 50,000 will not die. people every year just because we have bad air. They slept in the mine. The Turov case is not just about the place itself. It's about the environment, it's about the people who work there, it's about the face in the international arena, and it's about the future. Minister! That is why we would like to know what the negotiating strategy is. How you're going to talk to our partners, because what's happening today is just an absolutely inept (Bingle) attempt to cover up this inept topic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u104	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u105	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Solidarna Poland defends Poland's energy sovereignty and defends mainly Polish coal, because without Polish coal there is no cheaper energy and there will be no cheap heat. [[And the sun is still there.]] The misunderstanding of the opposition, which attacks the government, is that it does not understand one basic thing: the price of energy and the price of heat, the European Union, the EU's emissions trading system, is responsible for their growth. To produce electricity and heat, we need 170 million tons of CO2 allowances. We only get 105 million tons free of charge. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? You just have to multiply 55 euros, which is the price for 1t of allowances, times 65 million tons of deficit that we need to buy. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that over the next year 16 billion PLN will come out of Polish companies outside Poland completely, without any return and this money will not be spent on energy transformation. [[What's the idea?]] Today, it is the European Union, not the Polish government, which inhibits energy transformation. Polish companies are deprived of billions of zlotys. PGE paid PLN 6 billion last year for EU ETS speculative parataxes. And this money could be used to invest in new energy sources, low-carbon energy sources. This year it will be PLN 10 billion. It is the European Union and this speculative mechanism that within 7 years, if we get 500 billion PLN from the budget of the European Union, over 110, 120 billion PLN Polish companies will have to give the European Union to this whole system for the purchase of rights... [[Where?]] It's like a deficit in this whole system. This shows that it is the European Union that makes us pay more and more for energy and warmth. [[Turn yourselves in.]] [[Voice from the room: Where is your effectiveness?]] [[Voice from the room: Get off your knees.]] Unfortunately, in the coming months Poles are waiting for huge increases in prices of heat and energy. And that is what the European Union is responsible for today. Instead of criticizing the government, you should be supporting the government today just in order to reform the EU's emissions trading system... [[Get off your knees.]] ...which leads to the fact that the Polish economy is becoming less competitive. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u106	Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Let's do this. Negotiate with the European Union, fight for money for energy transformation, for what we have just heard. [[They can't even negotiate with the Czechs.]] Minister! You were talking about my current program. Please tell us what my current looks like today. How much money has been spent, how many Poles are waiting for this money? You mentioned a new bill. All Poles know that your driving force was never to pursue the development of renewable energy, energy related to RES, with clean energy and cheap energy. That wasn't your strong suit. Not much, you've blocked the construction of wind energy on land, and today we're hearing about the project you mentioned. What do you suggest? You are proposing to stop the development of a distributed large power plant on the roofs of the houses of Poles. You want to stop it. You're saying that this system that's been running so far was based on the fact that prosumers are generating energy, putting the surplus back on the grid, and they can get 80%. or 70% This energy for free, it's bad. Are you talking about that? No. That's all, this discount system is changing to what? For the usual sale. And there wouldn't be anything wrong with that either. But you say that again: the energy that the prosumer will have to buy when his power plant doesn't work will cost twice as much as his surplus. And that's the way forward? The Poles just don't believe you anymore. You guys got scared. Once again, you want to rob and divide Poles. This is the system. You say we'll give you something new, but it'll be $1,000. zł less. So how is this supposed to work? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You were terrified of the creativity of Poles. The Poles said they wouldn't listen to you anymore. They have heard about the reduction in energy prices. It never happened. There's been talk of renewal, compensation. And that didn't happen either. So they took matters into their own hands. There were over 500,000 on the rooftops. Photovoltaic power plants. A few million people are waiting for it again, and you're changing their rules. Are these changes for the better or for the worse? And you hit those people who are economically weaker... Finish your work, sir. ...who have been raising money over the years to fulfill their dream of cheap electricity. Thank you very much. And today you say no. Minister! I have a question for you: Why do you share Poles? What's with the changes? In any EU Directive, including the 2019 Directive, 2019/944, which you are referring to, it does not say anywhere that there is a ban on discharge. Thank you very much. Question: "How do you want to fight energy poverty?" How much did you invest in distribution networks? That's important at the time, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u108	Thank you very much, sir. Please observe the time limit. Please, Mr Andrzej Noblekhta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Over the last several years or decades, the Polish energy balance has been based on fossil fuels. It was only the Government of Law and Justice that started modernising generation capacity and diversifying the power generation structure. As the energy balance so far was based on fossil fuels, the transition of the economy to a low-carbon model will require a great deal of social effort, economic sectors and regions whose operation is largely linked to the use of high-carbon fuels. The Polish government plans to carry out an energy transformation in an evolutionary manner. It is assumed that the share of coal in the energy generation structure will fall to a level of not more than 56% in 2030 Improving the energy efficiency of the economy will be a major challenge. The National Plan for Reconstruction for the Green Energy Component and the reduction of energy intensity secures over EUR 14 billion, of which EUR 5.7 billion from the grant part, and thus huge expenditures are planned for the energy transition process. I ask the Minister, "What percentage of the National Reconstruction Programme will be devoted to climate-related activities in general? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Clean air.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u110	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u111	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the last six months, the Ministry of Climate and Environment has sent three packages of books and publications, promotional materials to my office. They all promote nuclear energy without exception. As a member of the Green Party, a member of the Energy and Climate Committee is very interested in energy transformation, reducing emissions, so I was eager to read. And over there, ladies and gentlemen, these flowers. In chapter 11 entitled "Without coal there is no light,'we read: Not enough of our power plants are switching to coal, which is the energy source that we have the most - Jimmy Carter. Title of Chapter 17: • A belief that renewable sources are sufficient and that Chapter 19: A nuclear necessity, etc., etc. I could quote here because all the titles are more or less similar. But let me get to the questions. Minister, how many packages did the Ministry of Climate and Environment send out last year? What was the cost of these publications? Does the Ministry of Climate and Environment conduct such an active promotion until it is asked to say: lobbying, only for the nuclear industry or other energy industries? Because I didn't get any information from the climate ministry about any other energy industry. And finally: Why is the climate ministry so actively promoting this single source of energy? Finally, Minister, as a stable energy mix requires at least a few different sources of energy, so is good education and knowledge. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They require several sources of information, so in this spirit I will allow myself to pass on a very good publication to the Minister. This is a book by nuclear physicist Marcin Popkiewicz, energy revolution. She on p. 375 presents what a low-carbon energy mix can look like, safe, stable for Poland, without coal or nuclear power in the base. So I highly recommend the Minister's attention. Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. Minister, greetings. So I encourage you to read. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u112	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Jan Warzecha, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In connection with the energy transformation, with the need to achieve European Green Load, climate neutrality, carbon leakage, did you notice the decarbonisation of the Minister for the involvement of the former President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, and now President of the European People's Party, in order for Poland not to bear the enormous costs associated with the transformation, i.e. so that the energy price does not increase for individual and industrial customers? The second question I have is whether, due to the rise in carbon prices and this increase occurred in the past year from EUR 25 to EUR 50... Although there is a directive which somehow reduces this growth, it turns out to be ineffective, because it can be implemented when prices are three times higher than the average price of allowances in the last two years for six months. We also know that emission allowances are financial instruments and that these increases can be speculative. This is where I wanted to ask if the government... I know that the government has already taken action to change this state of affairs, so that this mechanism that has been implemented changes enough to work and that these increases in emissions prices can be reduced to the extent that they are now. Please answer the question which government sees (the bell) a prescription in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u114	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u115	Thank you. Listening to the Minister, I cannot be surprised how this government cares about renewable energy, that is, our health. At the same time, I would like to remind you that in 2016 you killed the so-called. The windmill law has a large production of renewable energy, because you have introduced a 10H rule, a principle that the distance of wind farms from buildings must be at least ten times the height of windmills. In practice, it's approx. 2 km. The principle also works the other way, because in the area around these wind farms you cannot build. So there are no large areas of our territory. There are two big problems. E.g. by introducing the 10H principle, Poland is unlikely to achieve its declared 2020 target of a 15% share of RES in final energy consumption. . The 10H principle also threatens the achievement of the 2030 climate targets, which is the next pressing problem that concerns the need to reduce CO emissions as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the production of renewable energy, a major problem for the inhabitants of many cities is the exclusion, as I mentioned earlier, from the possibility of building land. Currently 2% of the territory is excluded from housing in connection with this law, i.e. about the area (Dzwonek) of the entire Opole Voivodeship. Uncles, mayors turn... These are construction sites, people have construction sites that they can't build on. Two huge problems that you've solved negatively while killing renewable energy produced by windmills. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u116	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Returning back to Turov, I would like to remind you that in September this year the construction of a preventive screen protecting groundwater at the border of the mine will be completed. In addition, according to ongoing discussions, the construction of the natural shaft is planned, which will protect the Czech side from the dusts of the mines. In recent years the Polish Energy Group has spent about PLN 90 million on environmental investments in Turów. So far, many investments have been made for the inhabitants of the region, e.g. the construction of acoustic screens and instances to sprinkle coal strings or the replacement of discs in conveyors for silent, which makes the mine not emit as much noise as it has been before. The question about Turov from my side is: Is it true that on the Czech side there is a gravel pit, which also leads to dehydration and increases water problems? Now, as far as emissions go, I'd like to say that this is a pretty big problem. Why? Because right now we're saying that for 1 t we have 60 euros, and we're already talking about that it's going to be 70 and 80 euros. Speculation companies are set up to trade emissions, sell them and buy them out. I have the impression that this has nothing to do with what the European Union has in mind, namely the fight against dust emissions. At the moment, we are dealing with a pure speculative game, and it is the concerns, under the banner of environmental protection, which many environmental foundations and associations buy, take for granted, and that is not the truth at all. Emissions serve certain powers to create, to say (the bell), an even greater economic initiation of their countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u118	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! I have the impression that what you call energy policy is some idea of energy sabotage. Let me remind you that as soon as you came to power, this was the first decision you made concerning the issue of wind power plants, i.e. the limitation of wind power in Poland. And let me remind you, because recently I was met by one of the parliamentarians who said something like this: I asked about the analysis of wind energy, why the regulations were changed. And what did I hear? That it was a political decision, not a substantive decision. So it wasn't from some kind of analysis, it was simply from political will. In this way, of course, we did not achieve the goals that were related to energy, to RES. I'll tell you more when we're talking about paying for CO emissions. But why am I talking about sabotage? Let's remind you of the plant block in Ostrołęka. Everyone knew it wasn't supposed to be built, and you built it. 1,300 million zlotys thrown into the mud, or actually dust. Here's another thing: Turov. Inability to talk to the Czechs. Since September 2020, there has not even been an ambassador, so you are not trying to resolve the conflict. You have led us to a situation where we can now pay fines of EUR 5 million a day. Accidents in Bełchatów, inability, staff changes - the effect we have, that is what we have. The question of photovoltaics. When people finally took matters into their own hands and decided to take care of the future of their children, their pockets, because the current is expensive, you want to do everything you can to kill it too. You killed wind energy. You want to kill photovoltaics. The question is: Why is your energy policy a policy of sabotaging the actions of citizens and energy security of Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There is no Member. Please, Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u121	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is a good thing that this debate is taking place, which is intended primarily to influence knowledge about Polish energy, transparency and certainty. Well, what happened recently doesn't seem like you're in control of anything. The demolition of the block in Ostrołęka for nearly PLN 1.5 billion, where the shovel was inserted by Prime Minister Szydło, is just an example of a lack of foresight, in the end of mismanagement in this system. Also what happened in Bełchatów about the accident. But most of all, it's the Turks. The turf where the mine's employees are waiting to solve the case quickly. Turów, sorek turoszowski, powiat zgorzelecki are twice punished, first, by the huge threat resulting from the judgment of the TSUE, the threat of daily penalties, second, the lack of a chance for a fair transformation. The European Union has transferred nearly EUR 265 million, PLN 1 billion per county in this part precisely to create alternative jobs, as well as places related to renewable energy in the case of redeployment of energyists. You don't want to carry out this project. This PLN 1 billion spent on a fair transformation - it is simply not going to be, the state resigned from it at that time. I can't agree with what happened in Turów. This is a huge profession of Polish diplomacy in these multi-month negotiations with the Czech Republic. I'm already overlooking the lack of an ambassador. Initially, it was about PLN 30 million, then PLN 50 million, and it will end up with a much larger amount resulting from the negotiations that will be conducted. Secondly, the State could not, as the TSUE also pointed out in its explanatory memorandum, put forward arguments on how a preventive measure could jeopardise the operation of power plants and mines. It was simply pointed out by the TSUE in its communication. In the end, I would like to say (The Bell) that the scandal is what the representatives of "Solidarity" wrote. I must read this and I ask the Minister to withdraw these outrageous words, because they do not benefit from the possibility of negotiating with the Czech Republic. I'll read it. The unionists say, "Where are the comments and negotiations?" We have better equipment than we did in 1968. A traitorous nation without a past, beggars of Europe, political, unspoken, highly likely thieves. This is what the members of Turov's Solidarity say when we start negotiations, and we are against the wall, and we need to convince the Czech Republic to withdraw the preventive measure, when we really have to influence the effectiveness of these negotiations, acting in the interests of workers and Polish energy. That's what union workers write. I urge them to withdraw this, and I also say this to the Polish government and to Minister Sasin. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u122	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u123	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You remember the last time you were in the Seym, we were talking about a breakdown that shut down 10 power blocks in Bełchatów. We were just done, we went home, and we had another fire-related accident. You were questioning the thesis that I thought was going wrong in the mine, that there was no proper supervision. That other fact confirmed that I was right. Today we are talking about energy, about energy security of Poland in the context of problems in Turów. The government assures us that it negotiates with the Czech Republic that the Czechs have withdrawn the complaint that the Czechs have withdrawn the application for a penalty of EUR 5 million a day, and we have yesterday's confirmation from the TSUE that such a request has been received and is currently being examined in the TSUE. It shows that the government is spinning, that the government is cheating Poles. The plan for a fair transformation of the Łódź voivodship has no legitimacy in the European Regulation, as Belchatów is not included in this Regulation. The plan provides for the closure of two opencast mines, in Bełchatów and in Szczerców, consecutively in the 20s, 30s. This will involve excluding (the bell) energy blocks from 2030. You said that the nuclear power plant would arrive at the earliest in 2033. None of the investments carried out by the PiS government is implemented on time. This applies to road, rail and energy investments. What happens when we turn off the Belchats and there are no substitute sources yet? Because RES, which is described in this plan, is supposed to give power only 700 MW. We'll turn off the 5 GW. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u124	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u125	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The debate that is now taking place in the Sejm is very important because we are talking today about security - about energy security. It's just hard to believe this concern of the opposition and the words that they're Polish patriots when you look at what you've been doing. [[And the sun is whose, my fellow Member?]] Please? [[The sun is whose?]] [[Voice from the room: For the last six years.]] Mr President, allow me to speak in the debate and use it the way I want to use it. I would like to say that, in terms of energy security, what you have done in my territory, the Gorlice land, which was the cradle of oil extraction... This extraction you've completely destroyed. You destroyed the extraction of Polish oil. Today we are pleased that you supported the resolution that Nord Stream is something wrong, because all the years of your functioning did not indicate that you were acting in the interests of Poland. But today, unfortunately, it's hard to tell when you're looking at what you're doing, when you're looking at the opposition, when you're looking at the Civic Platform... [[Voice from the room: Who built the pipeline?]] ...in the European Parliament reports on Poland, wants Poland to take money... [[You guys started it.]] ...how the opposition fights to present Poland in the worst possible light in the TSUE. It's all an act of adversity. The words you thought were offensive, the words of my colleague, that they behave like traitors. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not saying this to attack, but let's see where you're going. A lot of bad things happened in those eight years of government you had. Much has been destroyed, sold out, eliminated in Poland. Today, on the other hand, we are at an important moment in our history. What the TSUE has ruled in Turov's case is a very dangerous element, but the point is that this precedent (the bell) should not be repeated. That is why I am appealing to be remembered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u126	Thank you, Member. But constantly saying about the opposition that they're not patriots, and suggesting that they're traitors, is really out of place. [[I referred to what happened in the O.R. earlier.]] I really think that this is a slight exaggeration, because we are chosen by Poles, we are patriots and we have the right and the duty to be here and to say what we think is right. [[And yes, your marshal, I just did.]] Please, Mr Paul Pontylius.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm surprised you're still working at this ministry because all the trouble with Turov is yours. You've been ignoring the Czechs for a few years. After all, the problem, the dispute over Turów has been going on for 15 years, this is not the issue from 2018. But what caused the Czechs to get mad at Poland and submit a motion? The fact is that the law on environmental impact assessment has been changed in your ministry. You know very well that the idea was that you extended the mining license in the Turów mine on smart terms, first by 6 years, and then for longer, and now quietly, as you have already threatened the European Commission with a finger, you change the rules back and withdraw those provisions that allowed a limited degree of environmental impact assessment to be carried out in the case of Turów mines. This is the real problem for which we have already entered the war path with the Czechs. You keep telling us about quaternary deposits, as if you've been distracted from the dialogue that goes on with the Czechs. If you're so smart, I'm asking you why you didn't justify the possibility of shutting down the Turów mine, even if the Turów plant provides warm water to the city of Bogatynia. Why didn't you write that? Why you and your colleagues really prepared such a lousy justification for the TSUE that it was immediately rejected and made such a provision as it was made. You're personally responsible for this. And the best proof that even the Prime Minister doesn't trust you is that Minister Sobonia was sent to talk in Liberec the week following the decision of the TSUE, not you. You're just not up for it. I understand that you may be a good geologist, but unfortunately a politician (the bell), a negotiator is a fatal one. If you get out of this whole thing quickly, and you're best off your job, it'll be hopeful that you can communicate with the Czechs somewhere. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs Emilevich. There isn't. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u129	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! A lot of different words have been said here. Some critical voices, I think, would have to be accepted, but there were also such words that some might express their thoughts and others might be less slow. I'm also in favour of the Turov mine being able to function. But here some have forgotten that, just after the decision of the TSEU, many representatives of the Civic Platform said: yes, the sentence must be executed immediately. [[Because sentences have to be executed. Maybe not in the PiS, but in a civilized world you have to.]] First, execute the death sentence and eventually appeal whether it was properly executed. [[Applause]] Yeah, of course. I will say a few more words about the government taking good action to introduce renewable energy sources, to prevent climate warming, to take care of clean air. The Clean Air programme itself is the sum of PLN 103 billion. My current programme is very successful. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] I'll have panels on my roof too. I am also, of course, in favour of renewable energy sources. At the same time, I have a question about last winter. Winter was rough. It was snowing, it was freezing. I have a question about Sweden's energy purchase. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As renewable energy sources during the winter did not produce as much electricity as they should, our dirty electricity was very successful. I'm asking you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik. There isn't, I believe, an MP. Mrs Catherine Czochar. [[Voice from the room: There isn't one either.]] I can't see either. For this reason, I would ask you to speak with the representative of the applicants, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister, why don't you tell Mr. Kowalski where the CO's money goes? Two. I'd like you to tell us something about the transmission networks. Looks like it's a narrow throat. This narrow throat makes the state really change this law related to photovoltaics at the moment. You want this photovoltaics to be limited. The truth is, we're in trouble. We're having trouble connecting a growing number of installations, and we're also having trouble receiving them. After all, there are places where there are no receptions at peak energy production times. People have invested, but there's a blockage. The second point is the Fair Transformation Fund. As we know, it is and will function in the coming years. I have a question about how many of these areas, three, five or six, where we will really have these funds to split up with the European Commission. So far, as you can see, there are three plus three, but we're worried about Silesia. Here it turns out that new mines may appear, new concessions appear. We hear about the Mysłowices. What's going on right now? Is it possible that only this area in Silesia will not receive in the case of the Fair Transformation Fund? Or will it be that they won't reach for that money, Silesia won't reach at all? This is a very important matter. The next issue is special compensation schemes for mining areas. These areas are in Silesia and East Wielkopolska. In addition to the Fund for Fair Transformation, money from modernisation funds, etc., it seems that there should be government action that will attract new investment in these areas, e.g. with special economic zones that should operate on equal terms across the country, and the voices are that they are equal and equal. We are supposed to have economic zones covering the whole of Poland, but when it comes to what, for example. Eastern Wielkopolska, which should get investment in new jobs under the compensation scheme, loses because the offer, e.g. In Podkarpacie, it's definitely better. The hydrogen valleys. In this case too, I would like to know what the government programme on hydrogen looks like. Will these hydrogen valleys be linked to the production site of this hydrogen? 'Cause, you know, like... in eastern Wielkopolska, I will talk about it again, PAK is preparing for such production. It would be good if, on a cluster basis, hydrogen centers were directed there programs for these hydrogen valleys. Nuclear power plant. I am terribly afraid that, unfortunately, the nuclear power plant will not be set up in 2033. This is shown by the European experience. And so far, we don't really have those locations. I would therefore like to ask: When the government finally says that we locate the first power plant in Pomerania, the second, for example. in Bełchatów, and the third e.g. in Pątnów? Is that the order, and have you decided? It's taking way too long. Offshore. We also have a question about the timely implementation of this investment, because if offshore falls in time, if an atom falls, we will have a big problem with the basis. I hear that you want to put in a power market, extend the functioning power market, which means you want to preserve coal energy at this point, which, as we see, is increasingly expensive and more expensive. By what year do you want this power market to function? Will it be above 2040, and what units will it include? The issue of heat - this is a fundamental issue - and the modernisation of these heat and power plants, which are coal-fired power plants. And here too (Ringtone): Are we going to go to gas, what will the final demand look like and how this gas is going to be forward-looking? Do we have a simulation of the cost-effectiveness of gas installations, which will also have to be withdrawn at some point, because it is ultimately only half as low as carbon? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u132	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, You're the one who has no knowledge. I'm sending it back to my Facebook page, where I've shown what the gap in the EU's emissions trading system is. Very briefly: 170 million t of allowances need the Polish economy, 105 million t of allowances we have for free: 40 million t of allowances - installations, 65 million - for the Polish state for auctions. 170 million minus 105 million is 65 million - deficit. So the revenue of the state budget, Mr President, and I am very clear, is only 65 million t of entitlement. You just don't understand this system. This means that these 65 million t must buy Polish companies, pay 55 euros for it, and this money goes to the stock market in Leipzig, London, coming from Poland. I encourage you, sir, to sit down, to explain in substance... [[What about the Modernization Fund?]] ...no problem. This is not a political issue. Let's talk about this. The EU's emissions trading system needs to be reformed because... Thank you. ...first of all, this system inhibits energy transformation. Let's sit, let's talk, let me explain. But here you are, unfortunately, mistaken. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u134	Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment of Mr Piotr Dziada. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u135	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna try to answer the questions that I'm asking, and I'm gonna try to answer them. The first question, asked by Mr Nowak, regarding umbrella projects. These umbrella projects will be part of a public consultation and we are waiting for such comments from the state and from prosumers, from consumers. All these comments will be analysed and taken into account, because that is why this project is made available. Mr Kasprzak's question. If in recent years there have been 4 GW in photovoltaics, as we remember, and for comparison in 2015 there were only 100 MW in photovoltaics, this is the increase, right? Okay. [[Voice from the room: Now we want...]] No, no. Photovoltaics will continue to be systematically developed. New solutions result in up to 50% savings on these accounts. In addition, these changes result from the need to implement the Directive. [[...directives.]] [[Gentlemen, you've already spoken, let the Minister speak.]] As far as the power bill is concerned, here we reduce the burden for users with a flat consumption profile and we will reward those who do not cause problems in the system. That's the goal. And the power market. As far as Mr Suchon's question is concerned, there was a question of concessions. The extension of the concession is not related to the pace of energy transformation. These are most often the decisions of investors, which are often dictated by market criteria. And they should be... And they really decide what technologies are used in these investments. These are completely business decisions. With regard to the PV market - this issue has also been developed - we are convinced that it will develop dynamically. As for how it will develop, you know that there are regular RES auctions, it is already contracted as of today 7 GW, both from land, from photovoltaics and from the wind. So wind energy is the main element. As far as RES auctions are concerned, there is a project in the Sejm extending these auctions until 2027. As far as Mr Kowalski is concerned, he has already answered, he has explained very clearly the situation with regard to the ETS - that is true. I also wanted to review the questions that you have presented. All right, Mr Gadowski. My current was allocated PLN 1.1 billion. The third edition of this program will begin soon. Its launch is expected from 1 July. This is another support for prosumers, this is another support for the development of prosumer energy. We must tell you that renewable energy must be built in a responsible way. If she is not built in a responsible way, at some point none of this will benefit. We believe that the Prosumer will also be able to sell more expensive electricity. Here's the thing. He's gonna be able to sell more expensive. No one's gonna make him sell that electricity cheaply. This prosumer will really decide what the price will be. With regard to tariffs and energy prices in tariffs, the G12 tariff is lower... As it has been said, it will not be a double difference. This system, which is currently being built - a prosumer system - is designed to exploit the creativity of Poles, and uses them. It is not that we limit the creativity of Poles, we will use this creativity. To this end, these amendments shall be designed. We also plan to support warehouses in this project... Ladies and gentlemen! It was said that we were taking away from prosumers what we gave. We do not receive anything, we guarantee that for the next 15 years they will benefit from the conditions that are agreed today. As regards the questions of Mr Nobleman, which we will be preparing for the key projects that will actually address energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emission reductions. We will use sustainable and technologically neutral renewable energy sources. We will develop intelligent energy systems and networks and energy storage systems, including heat storage. We will invest and these investments will relate to interchangeable heat sources. There will be investments in hydrogen technologies, hydrogen production, storage, transport of hydrogen - what we are talking so much about. As regards Mrs Zielińska's questions, I would like to make it clear that these positions indicate that renewable energy is not a stable source, and that is why many authors around the world write about these stable energy sources. It's understandable to us. It is the basis, the basis, that is, energy must stabilize the system, so we must have sources that stabilize the system. Of course, there is coal, but it can be used in an environmentally sound manner. There is natural gas - it can also be used environmentally through carbon capture systems. This is a system that is known and I hope that we will soon see such projects in our country. They're already prepared, to be frank. With regard to Mr Jan Warrzecha, with regard to the ETS, we will, of course, negotiate the terms of the ETS so that these mechanisms are fairer. Another element and the next question is Mr Chmiel's question. There have been allegations that we are eliminating the 10H rule, but regardless of the fact that this principle has gotten stuck in any way, it was actually due to large protests in the field of wind energy construction. After all, we already have 10 GW in auctions contracted at the moment. Land auctions. The windmills, to be honest, will be built by 2023, and at the moment also the 10H law is (the bell) in the consultation. Mr Lorek. Regarding the gravel pit on the Czech side - this topic I have already started to analyze with my previous speech, and in fact we have a problem with it, because the Czech side does not provide us with information about the impact of Grab-itejn gravel plant on the Czech side on the water that it also exploits. The waters that are included in the next shot are covered by a depressive funnel that is formed in the use of this gravel pit. So that's the problem. If we had information on the Czech side, we could really analyze it, and we could really start talking. On the other hand, the Czech side it doesn't give us that information and we don't even have the ability to address it. So, ladies and gentlemen, there must be a balance so that we can have such data and speak. There is a complex hydrogeological system in the turosh bag. It is worth analyzing it carefully to understand how this system works. Next question, Mr. Peter's question... Please come to the end, Minister, because time is running out. Yeah, I'm gonna try, because there were a lot of questions, and there's a lot of questions, and I'm trying to pick the most important ones. [[Minister, in writing.]] We're supposed to answer all the questions in writing, right? Good. Then perhaps I should move on to the last one, Mr Nowak. About the networks. The networks, of course, have not historically been designed for such an amount of reception, and the Member is well aware of that. In the following years, i.e. within 9 years, 14 billion are planned to be spent on the modernisation of transmission networks. This is planned and this must be realized. And for distribution networks between 140 billion and 2040. It's so fast. In fact, these are perhaps the most important issues that should be mentioned. I'm still checking to see if there are any questions I've left out. There were still questions about the power market. The power market cannot finance coal. It will support only low-carbon sources in the new auctions. And that's basically the most important thing that... [[Gas?]] Yes. Low-carbon, sorry, low-carbon, non-gas. No carbon, no low carbon. [[What kind of gas?]] Offshore, photovoltaics. Yes. We're planning geothermals because these are all areas that are going to be... [[Nuclear energy, isn't it?]] I don't have that information. These are perhaps all the most important issues that should be presented as answers to your questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u136	Good. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. On this we have exhausted the order of the 32nd meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. And Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk will make his first statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u137	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In my speech, I would like to address the very important issue of recent weeks. As far as agricultural insurance is concerned, the situation has recently been dramatic in many counties in Poland. The county, which was directly affected by the hailing, the district is very close to me, is proszowicki district, while the neighbouring district, i.e. the district of Krakowski, has also suffered very much. Many farms lost their income, lost their earning opportunities this year. The problem is serious. The problem is insurance. The problem was raised several weeks ago. I would also like to raise an issue related to the preservation of the opposition. The opposition arrived at the scene, including parliamentarians, whose predecessors in 1992 said that agricultural insurance should not be widespread, should be voluntary; there should be no common insurance, there should not be a situation in which farmers should somehow consolidate in relation to these insurances. The problem started to arise when farmers got an offer that made insurance pay off. They stopped paying off because fewer and fewer farmers were insured. In order to have really good insurance, you have to be insured from many cataclysms. Everything, really. The difference is that we don't really know if our cultivation will destroy drought, hail or heavy rain. We can't predict that. On the other hand, the person who estimates the damage and comes to the farmer's field can verify it. As farmers, we often spend tens of thousands of zlotys on insurance, and we don't get our money back because we've been hit by a bad cataclysm: some other cataclysm that makes us unable to get our money back. That's why we have to process the insurance project. We need to bring more money into farmers' pockets when it comes to subsidised insurance. And that's why on April 20th, this year, I submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture of Mr Grzegorz Puda. This interpellation met with a positive response, because the Minister promised in response by his Secretary of State, Mr Richard Bartosik, that the following year the subsidised agricultural insurance would be a priority and the amounts would be raised. On the other hand, if enough money is available from the budget reserve, farmers will certainly get additional money. So the reaction was much earlier than the hailing itself. I would also like to stress that the opposition lied that there was no reaction of the United Right. Later, in a situation in which the Prime Minister visited Krakow with the Minister of Agriculture, I went to a meeting with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture. This situation concerned the presentation of the New Deal for agriculture, the Polish Deal for agriculture. I just signalled a problem in Małopolska about insurance when it comes to hailing. I have sent an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture, a repelation and to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on such a matter as to run this reserve to give money to farmers so that they can take advantage of this money much earlier and to plan another project to prevent this kind of situation in the future. I met with a positive response. The Prime Minister promised that the work on this subject would be started, so that the situations of hailing, but not just hailing, generally linked to difficult weather conditions in agriculture, would not affect farmers in such a way that farmers lost their livelihood by failing to come up with cataclysm insurance, that they had been insured from other weather conditions than those which had just happened to them, from inadequate cataclysms. Thank you very much for the work undertaken by Minister Grzegorz Puda and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. I am pleased that the cooperation of the United Right in the context of agriculture is working out. There are further projects resulting from the Polish Order, for example about subcontractors in agriculture, who do not pay, let us assume, money to farmers. They will be severely punished. I am glad that this project of Solidarna Polska will also be sent to the Polish Order. I thank Minister Zbigniew Zioba for reacting in the previous term when we recovered a dozen million for farmers affected by tobacco companies. The United Right, dear opposition, cares for farmers. We will also sort out (the bell) the situation with insurance in agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u138	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Mariusz Gosek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u139	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, headed by Minister Mariusz Kaminski, for the continued support of the voluntary fire department. I would also like to thank the government institutions, headed by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, for this support. Tomorrow, in the Świętokrzyskie region, a big event will take place, namely 30 wagons will be handed over to the volunteer fire department, five more cars will be sent to the National Fire Service units. 21 promes for further funding will go to 21 other volunteer firefighters. And that is a great thing, because support for volunteer firefighters is extremely important for the government of Law and Justice, the United Right, Solidar Poland. Often these firefighters - and this is shown by statistics - are the first on the scene of events, road accidents, random events. They reached the scene of these events. There was a desire, a will to help, but there was a lack of professional equipment. Here the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the Chief of State Fire Department, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the Justice Fund came out with the initiative. From this point on, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice, Prosecutor General Zbigniew Ziobra. I'd like to thank you for those good programs. I strongly trust that they will continue, because all parliamentarians probably stand in the position that supporting volunteers is also raising the level of security of Poles, security during any actions in which the volunteers' colleagues participate. Once again, we would like to thank Minister Mariusz Kaminski and Minister Zbigniew Ziobra for their continued support for the voluntary fire department. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u140	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is about Colonel. Mariana Pawełczaka ps. Morva, a soldier of the Home Army. Yesterday, we celebrated the colonel's memory. Mariana Pawełczaka ps. A soldier of the Home Army who died on June 13 at the age of 98. During World War II he was deported to Germany for forced labor, where he fled to re-engage in conspiracy activities. He served in the Home Army's troops, taking part in many fights. He was a subpoena Major. Jerome Dekutowski ps. It's a firewall. He was arrested for refusing to serve in the people's army. After disclosure he was imprisoned 4 years in the castle of Lublin for dishonest disclosure and concealing the actions of Major. Dekutowski. He was harassed by the communist authorities for being a member of the National Army. He commemorated the cursed soldiers, worked in the Association of Freedom and Independence and in the association of political prisoners of the communist period. This appropriation is Marian Pawełczak was promoted to the rank of colonel and was awarded the Commander's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u142	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u143	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! 30 years ago, on 7 June 1991, Pope John Paul II visited Płock. This historic visit took place during the fourth pilgrimage of the Holy Father to his homeland. How eloquent at that time was the slogan of the pilgrimage. It was the time of the beginning of the transformation of the body and society. Just then, in this important period for Poles and Poland, St. John Paul II wanted to make us sensitive to the necessity of reckoning with God and his law in the reforms that were being undertaken. During the pope's homily, important words came out of his mouth: "I sincerely wish you all that none of you and never try to get rich at the expense of your neighbor." Furthermore, I wish you, my fellow countrymen, that in your efforts to improve material existence you do not lose the ordinary human sensitivity to other people's poverty. And let us also be very careful not to become a society in which everyone envys something. Let us restore the glamour of our beautiful word 'honesty': honesty, which is an expression of heart order, honesty in words and deeds, honesty in family and neighborhood relations, in the workplace and in the ministry, in crafts and commerce, honesty, just honesty throughout life. It is a source of mutual trust and subsequently also a source of social peace and real development (Płock, 7 June 1991). After 30 years, this message of our pope has lost nothing to the news. This historic day for Płock took place another important event. The Holy Mass broadcast. inaugurated its activity the first Catholic radio station of the Catholic Radio Diocese Płocka in Poland. 6 June 2021 Płock celebrated the 30th anniversary of the Holy Father's visit. The inhabitants of the Piast castle at the Vistula and Mazowsze Płocki crowded the petty cathedral at the festive anniversary Mass. An important point of the celebration was the unveiling and consecration by the Primate of Poland. Archbishop Wojciech Pole of the new monument. The monument is an expression of homage and gratitude to the society of the petty land for the historic visit of St. the pope of the Pole. It is worth noting that it was created thanks to the determination and commitment of the project applicant to the Civic Budget of Płock, representatives of movements and associations operating in the city of Płock, headed by Leszek Brzeski, Councillor of the City Council of Płock, and Witold Wybult, President of the Association of Catholic Dioceses of Płock.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-sejm-32-1.u144	That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. At this end we concluded the 32nd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the next session of the Sejm, convened on 23 and 24 June 2021, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 19 min 53]]
