ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be held: - Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets - at 3 p.m. 9, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 9, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 10, - Public Finances together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 10, - Culture and Media - hour 10, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 10.30, - Culture and Media - hour 12 and 13. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on family custody capital (print No 1509). I ask the Minister of Family and Social Policy, Ms Marlena Maląg, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u3	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Almost 6 years of rule of law and justice was an absolute breakthrough in Polish politics. It was a time of important reforms, good changes that brought benefits to all Polish residents. It's an increase in average wages in the national economy, it's a significant increase in minimum wages. Let me remind you, the year 2015-1750 PLN, 2022 - what has already been adopted by the Council of Ministers is 3010 PLN. It's a 72% increase. This is a drop in the unemployment rate, according to Eurostat, a drop of 7.5 percentage points. There is also the introduction of pro-family programs - programs that have changed Polish pro-family policy - investment in the family, building a stable Polish country based on the foundation of the family, i.e. what is most important in life. There are 500+ and a good start, with support for the elderly all the time: 13th and 14th pensions, for young PIT/0 so that, above all, the start of life is the best. This intense development has not even slowed down the pandemic - macroeconomic indicators clearly show this. And after the pandemic, when we prepare the country to return to the tracks of rapid, dynamic development, we show the program in which the Polish family is in the centre of life - and in the centre of this program, the Polish Łódź. We want to continue, above all, the construction of a state of prosperity which will meet European standards. This strategy is precisely the plan of intensive, strategic development, which is assumed by the Polish Load. One of the most important parts of the Polish Deal is the family, where the house and life are the center of attention. Family policy is one of the most important areas of action of our government. Scheduled and consistently implemented by the government pro-family policy assumes that it is the family that is the foundation of a strong state, and thus every initiative to strengthen the family also strengthens our country. Therefore, Polish Load proposes to introduce a new kind of benefit for parents of children from 12 to 36 months of age: family care capital - permanent funding of the reduction of the child's stay in crèche, children's club or day care provider - but also the extension of the resort program. Why are these actions so important, why are they so necessary? One of the most important challenges facing Poland, but also Europe, is above all to get out of the trap of low childhood. These actions we are taking, which we have started... we have also presented to you at one of the meetings of the Demographic Strategy. Why is she so important? Because this document, based on the studies carried out, on the analyses carried out, shows what young people need to do to help them get out of the trap of low childhood. On the one hand, the financial support already implemented by the Government of Law and Justice is very important, but it is also important to strengthen the role of the family, to strengthen care for children up to the age of 3, and to pursue equal strategic policies - government policy, local government policy, and to involve NGOs and employers. Because young people need it, and clearly it came out in research. We are pleased to be able to present and implement these specific laws at this session of the Sejm, i.e. housing policy or support for childcare up to the age of 3. Therefore, one of the instruments to help Polish families is presented with family care capital. It is directed to dependent families and is primarily intended to cover part of the care expenses for the second and subsequent children, as well as to encourage parents to decide to increase their families. And, as I said, he will be entitled to parents who have a second and another child from 12 to 36 months of age. For these two years, 12,000. Gold. Parents will decide whether this capital will be collected for a year, 1 000 each. zł, or for two more years, 500 PLN each. Of course, it should be mentioned here that under no circumstances does our flagship programme change, Family 500+. He will continue to be realized. And, ladies and gentlemen, how will this benefit be realized? Parents will only submit applications by electronic means. The operator will be the Social Insurance Institution. We estimate that this benefit will be covered by 615 thousand. children. And caring capital will be the instrument that will help link work and family life. This is very important too. Another thing that we present in the Act has been worked out because we are expanding the programme. The programme will be co-financed from the state budget and external resources - the European Social Fund, as well as the National Plan for Reconstruction. So far, we have spent 450 million PLN per year on the "Milch+" programme. New childcare facilities under the age of 3 have been created under this programme. Today we have over 200,000 of them. in Poland. When we took over the government, I'll remind you, there were about 80,000 of these places. And now that we have these three sources of funding, and the annual budget will be almost PLN 1.5 billion, we want the costs for parents to be as low as possible. Therefore, in the Act, it remained that way. This will also be achieved in the dialogue with the European Commission, with the funding of PLN 400 for those children who do not benefit from family care capital. These funds will be transferred - at the request of the parents, the realist will be the Social Insurance Institution - directly to the unit that will run the nursery or children's club. We want to do this primarily to address the funds under the "Maluch+" programme to local government units and give the possibility to create, if of course, such needs and interest of parents, a crèche in each municipality. If local governments do not address this challenge for different reasons, we will also ask non-governmental actors to be able to carry out these tasks in the competition. And, ladies and gentlemen, to sum up. The introduction of a new provision, family care capital, as well as significant support for parents to pay fees in childcare institutions up to the age of 3 will be another form of investment in the family, strengthening human capital. The government appreciates, emphasizes the role of the family. Many times we show it, not only are we saying it, because the family is the foundation of a safe future, the family is a Polish reason for the state. I therefore ask the High House to adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u4	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Teresa Wargock will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u5	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the draft law on family custody capital from Seym printing 1509. High Izbo! The year 2020, a period of fighting against the COVID pandemic, has basically destroyed order in every area. In May 2021, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced a new socio-economic programme for Poland called the Polish Load. There are 10 laws in this program that are now entering the Sejm that we are working on. It is a huge duty for all of us, the High House, to use this financial and legal potential to create better living conditions for all Poles. As part of the Polish Deal, there is a family element and a house in the centre of attention. And this law that we have today at first reading is one of the elements in this area. But there are also laws on solving the housing problems faced by families. The Family Care Capital Act is another investment in families raising children. I'm not going back to the past. Law and Justice considers the family to be a completely fundamental social group, of great importance for the continuity of generations, for the transfer of culture, civilization, for the sustainability of a larger community such as the nation. The family in the opinion of the public, in the study of attitudes of Poles has a very high position. Despite many changes over recent decades, social change, economic change, the family still remains a value, and family happiness is considered one of the basic values and the goal of life 80% Poles. Definite majority of subjects, 80% , says that to the fullest happiness a person needs a family, and only one in ten respondents thinks that without a family one can live equally happily. I am talking about this for a reason, because the point is that in our family policy we really also respond to the personal needs that young Poles have. One of the important functions of the family is procreation function, having children, dreaming of men and women. But this transmission, this exchange of generations, which is in the family, the parent - the child, it affects the exchange of generations, the sustainability of society in its entirety, so support for families raising children is a duty of the state. The investment in the family is a very important investment for long-term development. We know what a demographic trap is, we know what depopulation is. Poland is depopulated, Europe is depopulated. Forecasts for Poland are very bad. According to Eurostat in 2100, if we do not intervene in this area, the population will fall to 23 million in Poland and become a middle-aged population of 52 years. This is a challenge for the whole political class. This is our job for the next generation. It's not political business here and now. It's a vision. Poland at the end of the 21st century. High Izbo! The main barriers diagnosed, obvious, have been known for years: fear of losing the standard of living due to the appearance of another child, problems with living first and bigger for the family, and the combination of women's work and maternal function. And for all these problems this area in the Polish Lad, the family in the spotlight, gives solutions and instruments. Please, High House, all Members, so that we do not repeat the mistake that was made in this political debate on the 500+ programme, because for 5 years you have tried to disgust Poles and he (The Bell) has brought good results. Let's not do it, it's a Polish state right. Taking care of the family, countering these demographic trends is our duty to future generations. Law and Justice fully supports print solutions 1509. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u6	Thank you very much, Member. Now Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition, has always supported good social and family policies. And we never doubted that this is the area that needs to be supported most. [[Now you have no doubt?]] Therefore, since 2007, when we embraced governments as the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, we have laid a real first foundation in creating system-based solutions for family policies. I'll just remind you of one program, because it's very much connected to what you're doing today. A year's parental leave is one thing, but it's also a "Maluch+" program, because what you're proposing today is an absolute development of the "Maluch+" programme. Very good. For me, it's just such a big doubt to us that the state doesn't want this funding to go straight to the parents, to the guardians for the first child. I think, Minister, we should lean on this issue. Excuse me. Excuse me. Just as Minister Wargock had a chance to speak in peace, so we will ask for it now. This is a good program and we, as the Civic Coalition, will certainly support it, so that I think that reducing emotions is justified. Minister! Pro-family policy requires absolutely systemic solutions, which is why it was important for us to have it as a one-year parental leave, and a program called "Milch+" which, above all, in addition to the construction of crèches, co-financed to new places in these crèches, assumed the possibility of combining work with family responsibilities by employing nannies by these parents or carers of the child in a legal manner. Because what did your parents have a big problem with? Yeah, well, they were looking for babysitters, but most of the time, she was working illegally. Because as long as they could afford to pay their wages, the contributions were not paid. That's why it was important for us to get the nannies out of this gray area and make this employment legal and full. We've introduced 100% of the state budget. the financing of all contributions for the employment of nannies. I have a great request for you to return to financing these contributions 100% during the process on this project. Because what did you do? Well, since 2018, you've eliminated this funding in half, you've halved it. It's 100% funding. contributions to employment have been in place since 2011, from the moment we introduced them, until 2018, because in 2018, the state eliminated them halfway, and over 53 thousand benefited from this form of aid. Babysitters, because they were so-called. activation agreements. Another thing, Minister. Looking at the problem that young people today have with having children, it is scandalous that you allowed Minister Radziwiłł to shut down the in vitro program. This programme has been in place since 2013, until you have not liquidated it in 2016, and thanks to this programme more than 22 000 were born. children. You're talking about a demographic disaster. And yes, we are facing a demographic disaster, but you cannot fail to see that there was a good program in Poland, as well as in other countries which co-financed the in vitro method, the most effective in treating infertility. And another thing. Madame, I think you have said to me whether the Minister has said that it is important to have an apartment. Of course I do. In order for young people to decide to have children, they must be able to have children first and foremost. have, that's why it was an in vitro program. They must be able to combine work with family responsibilities when they are working and have children, even if it is for nannies, and they must have a roof over their heads. What have you done? You've shut down this program. It operated from 2014 to 2018 and does not function. It was used by over 200,000. young people. He's not here today. You're saying we have it in the Polish Lade. But why eliminate something that was good? Why hang something in the vacuum that was good and not give money for a while? After all, some young people have lost their lives during this period. We support good programmes, but (The bell) we ask that the programmes introduced by the previous government, which are also good, should not be eliminated by you. At least bring it back, even if it's 100% funding for nannies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u8	Thank you very much, Member. And now I would like to ask Katarzyna Kotula to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left in relation to the draft law on family custody capital. In the justification of the project, which begins with peans in your own honor, you write that pro-family policy is one of the most important areas of government action. In fact, your policy is based on easy and fast solutions in the form of direct financial transfers. Unfortunately, there's nothing more to follow. This certainly has nothing to do with real family policies or the construction of a welfare state that you are supposed to care about so much. The state of prosperity is not just based on social transfers, it is based on comprehensive solutions which also protect those most in need in the area of family support. And in this area, unfortunately, you failed all along the line. Instead of repairing the public service system, which has among others. To support women, young people and young families, you prefer to give money so that those who want to start families buy these services on the market. Since there are no dentists, and waiting time for a specialist doctor is ridiculously long, citizens have no choice but to pay for a private visit. The same applies to education and many other areas of public services that you have de facto privatised. As a result, this money will not go to the children at all. Parents will have to spend it on public services, which are theoretically guaranteed in the Constitution as free. The money from the transfers makes it possible to pay privately for everything that you don't provide, although it really should. Family care capital is to be another government response to the growing demographic problem in Poland. The new witness is intended to encourage Polish women to have children. We have a dramatic situation when it comes to demographics. We all know that. Last year most citizens died since World War II, and the least citizens were born since 2005. Unfortunately, you are helpless in the face of this problem and cannot achieve good and effective solutions. We all know that Poland is in the middle of a collapse because Polish women do not want to give birth. Those are the facts. But let us not be delusional. Neither the 500+ programme well judged by the Left, nor these proposals will increase childhood. The recipe for this is very simple and I would be happy to present it to you. High-quality public services, a good friendly school, an apartment for young people starting families, well-funded health care... [[That's what we do.]] ...stable work for decent pay and the right to decide about your own health and life. The experience of other countries clearly shows that where women have a choice, full reproductive rights, guarantee good public services and support from the state, childhood grows. In Poland, however, under your rule, it is the opposite. You want to control women, you're worse off with backup. Care capital is of course a step in the right direction and the Left will support it, but already an example of 500+ has shown that additional money unfortunately does not translate into an increase in childhood. These are the data of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. The government should know that, the Minister knows them best. Women aren't vending machines for you to throw in a chip or money, they're gonna start giving birth. And it's not gonna change what you put in Julia Przyłębska's hands about abortion. You can't force Poles to have children. Neither bans nor direct social transfers. [[But what are you saying?]] Or maybe instead of inefficiently forcing those women who don't want to give birth, support the ones they want to give birth to. Convince them that it is worth giving birth and raising children, because the state will guarantee their support. And one more thing. You can point out omissions to others, but yourself, even though you've been in charge for six years, you haven't completed the entire list of empty, as it turns out, promises, including the most important ones, regarding the support of people with disabilities and their carers. And how is there any way to believe in your family policies? The new case law system is stuck in the Ministry's drawers. The deinstitutionalisation strategy developed by the environment of people with disabilities has been thrown into the basket. Prohibition of work in the collection of care services - maintained. There's a whole list. There are no statutory care solutions. The lack of funding for EWK-type environmental aid homes left to itself without additional funding despite the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2014. The carers remaining on an outrageously low allowance of PLN 620. No assistants for people with disabilities. I could have exchanged it longer, but it doesn't allow for a time limit. This is your family policy in practice. Yet, the fulfillment of these promises is a real family care capital. And don't explain that you've still got time because you've been in charge for six years. The definition of a reduction in the child's daycare payment. Hm. Why do people need that money from you if they don't have a place to send their child? This proposal will not cause that in municipalities where there has been no crèche so far, such an establishment will suddenly arise, because still almost half of the municipalities in Poland do not have access to childcare facilities until the age of 3. If you really cared about good care solutions in day care (Dawn), you would finance the creation of new crèches by municipalities or provide access to day care providers. Yeah, it's a step in the right direction. That is why the Left will support this project. We are fully aware of his weaknesses, but we are convinced that better something than nothing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u10	Thank you very much, Member. I would now like to ask Mrs Bożena Ironowska to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u11	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives I am pleased to present the position of the club on the Act on Family Care Capital, within which from January an additional amount of 500 PLN will be granted for the second and subsequent child, and from April - funding for the nursery or children's club. $12,000 in total. PLN of family care capital will be able to receive a parent for a child between 12 and 36 months of age. Capital is intended to fill the gap between the end of maternity leave and pre-school care for the child. It is intended to provide financial support to parents for the organisation of childcare. As a coalition club Poland - Polish People's Party we supported and will always support solutions good for the Polish family. We want to support the development of children and young people, because it is up to them that the future of Poland and the future of Europe depend on them. The question that arises, especially on the 500+ side, is how these funds are distributed. Why a second and another child? In time, will the government come to the conclusion that the first one too? On the other hand, the biggest concern is the fact that these measures will be shared by the Social Security Office. Centralization again - something the ruling party likes best. And it will be a bad solution, especially for families, but also for ZUS employees, and so heavily burdened with work, which will come up with further tasks for a very poor salary. Once again, the Polish People's Party is using the Polish family. But the question is: If the 500+ programme has not improved children's lives in our country, will this happen thanks to the care capital? Maybe it's time to wonder if this is the right way. Maybe we should co-finance supporting activities that compensate for disparities. Maybe, and for sure, the parent is interested in receiving rapid specialized assistance for children, such as a visit to a psychologist or a psychiatrist, who is waiting for months or even longer today. Maybe it is worth funding the construction of kindergartens and other infrastructure that facilitates the functioning of Polish families. Polish children, especially those who grow up in less affluent families, need easier access to doctors, dentists, educators, centres supporting the physical and intellectual development of the child. It would be much better if these measures could be shared at local level by municipalities, aid institutions that know better about the needs of families. From the perspective of the Social Security Office, this will not be possible. To conclude: We support all support programs for children, for the Polish family. We do not agree with the populist distribution of funds by the state to buy voters. We need to think further than the next election and invest resources so that they work for more than 12 months or 2 years. As a coalition club Poland - Polish People's Party we will support this project, because it is a project investing in the Polish family, in Polish children, but we will submit appropriate amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u12	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mr Robert Winnicki to present the position of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u13	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It must be said first, it is such a preliminary remark to this speech that the demographic problem has been present throughout the Western cultural space for several decades. However, this is a cultural problem in the first place. It is a cultural problem, and here it is not apparent that governments, formations called centrorights in this field, take some meaningful action, for example in public media, so far controlled by them. On the other hand, when it comes to the issue of this gift, there are two good things to say about it. Firstly, that it is a bon, means that the funds are directed directly to the parents who decide how to use them - whether by staying one of the parents to care for the child at home or by using it for care or in any other way. Secondly, this programme really fills the gap that is in the system today, i.e. the gap in care between 1 and 3 years old, between the period when maternity leave ends and the period when it begins or is possible, the possibility of sending the child to kindergarten. The problem with this scheme, however, is that it is in fact only a patch on a system that is inconsistent in itself and combines elements of the permanent system, in our view of the inability, i.e. a system in which the State is geared towards creating specific institutions such as daycare, and directly allocates money to it, with a flexible system, a subsidy system, a voucher system. In our view, as far as these elements are concerned, we should strive for the simplest, uniform mechanism that will make from the moment the child is born, through nursery, kindergarten, school period, money is directly directed to the parent who makes decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have good experience in Central and Eastern Europe. That's how it works, among other things. Czech system, where there are hardly any nursery facilities at all. Czechs - I have data from mid-1990s to 2017 in terms of children - from level 1,12 in mid-1990s jumped in 2017 to level 1,67. It's still not a simple generation replacement, but it's a very big leap. We call for a system (the Bell) to be introduced consistently in one single gift and education, and for family support, in family policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u14	Thank you very much. This ended with the speeches of representatives of clubs and circles. We're approaching a series of questions. So far, 18 people have signed up. Who among your fellow Members would like to join, please. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Oh, just a minute, no problem. If you're all here, I'm closing the list, setting the time to ask a question for one minute. We are launching a series of questions and Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u15	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Pro-family programs addressed to Polish families by the Government of the United Right: We have Polish Load, in which there is also a program addressed to Polish families. It's about caring parenting. Ladies and gentlemen! There are a lot of ladies in this room fighting for women's rights, for women's dignity. Can there be anything more beautiful than what is now offered to young women so that they can combine their work (the bell) with the upbringing of a young child? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u16	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mr Rafał Bochenk for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u17	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! Law and Justice have implemented a number of very ambitious social programmes over recent years. Such a flagship programme is undoubtedly the 500+ family programme. It is a program that changed not only the face of Polish politics, because it restored its basic credibility, but also the living conditions of millions of Polish families. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I was astonished to hear the position of my previous speaker, the representative of the Civic Platform... [[Ha, ha, ha! That's funny.]] ...who said from this speaker that the Platform has always supported good solutions for Polish families, which is obviously not true, because over the years this program was ridiculed, discredited, and the people who used it were simply humiliated by the Civic Platform. [[You're lying.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm just gonna pay attention to one more thing. Because we have also heard over the years (the bell), when the government of the Civic Platform ruled, that the money for these ambitious programs simply does not exist and will not be, I have a question to the Minister: Where did these funds come from? Have we been cheated by the Platform and PSL government for years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u18	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u19	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! $12,000. PLN for families with children caused a huge stir among the public for many reasons. You can hear the voices that this is another program that only supports families with children. And this phrase with children is crucial here. As you said, it is indeed with concern that young women should be approached. But many people ask: What about those parents who can't have any more children? Not all parents who have only one child do not have one, because they choose to because they want to because they just want to be comfortable because they chose this way. They want very much for their only siblings, but unfortunately they cannot have them for various reasons, e.g. because secondary infertility happened, because after the first complicated birth doctors advise against the second because of the risk of life of the mother, because thanks to (in vitro bell) they managed to give birth to one child, while you took this program and could not have another child. I just wanted to say that this speech is at the request of many women who would like to have more children, not one that they gave birth with an in vitro program introduced by the Civic Platform. You don't do anything for those families who want to have more kids, and they just don't have kids. And the question to the Minister: What proposals do you have for these families? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u20	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Act on Family Care Capital and the possibility to finance a child's stay in nursery or kindergarten are good solutions. However, it must be remembered that in order to benefit from the possibility of financing a child's stay in a children's club or kindergarten, they must be. Almost half of the municipalities do not have these nursery and children's clubs. The main obstacle today, when I talk to the mayors and mayors of small municipalities, is the lack of resources to run these nursery or children's clubs. There are funds to be built, funds from the state budget, European funds. The Minister mentioned that there would also be funds from the National Reconstruction Plan. I wanted to ask: What measures are foreseen in this support instrument? Of course, he's suspended today, but he's just as important. The second question concerns the aid (the bell) of the municipalities in running the nursery and kindergarten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u22	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Bożena Żalewska to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u23	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Indeed, these measures are needed by Polish families and hopefully they will be well used. However, I have a question for the Minister: How do you want to help local governments? Because I think that this cooperation is at the level of the government - the government or the financing of the construction of kindergartens or other infrastructure, or helping with the implementation of these compensatory educational activities... Do you have any ideas like that? I encourage this cooperation between the government and the local government, because it will serve Polish family and Polish children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u24	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mr Arthur Dziambor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard many warm words here about this program, another social programme, which will, of course, be propagandised by the Party of Law and Justice, because once again it will seem that Law and Justice are giving something. Let's start with what Law and Justice have taken. We had a program called "Maluch+" which this year was cut to only 80 PLN per place in the nursery. We have a 500+ programme, which you have praised here as a brilliant demographic programme, which, after all, we know perfectly well from hard data - the government in demography did not help. And we said that to the very beginning. [[And what would be the demography if this program weren't there?]] We've been saying from the beginning that it's not gonna happen. When do people decide to have more kids? Then when they have occupational safety, when they have a good level of health care, when they have safety on the streets, when they have a guarantee that they will be able to raise these children in the normal world. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're putting people on social programs that you're selling propaganda. That's what this program is, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u26	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We keep our word, we keep our word, just as we have kept it with the program "Family 500+, with the program "Good start," with the program "Mama 4+, with the extension of the program "Maluch+", and we keep with the apartment without own contribution for families, with no formalities or with the introduction of a tax-free amount of 30,000. zł. Minister! When I talk to people in my region, and I do it often, about the assumptions of the Polish Ład program, young parents, especially mothers, ask me about this solution, about family care capital. These parents already know what they're gonna do with the $12,000. zł. Therefore, I would like to thank you very much for the fact that today we can meet and, as part of the first reading of the project concerning family care capital, guarantee our Polish families, mothers, fathers about it (the bell) that this project will enter into force because they are waiting for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u28	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u29	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! You talk about these pro-family programs, they call them prodemographical. This program will certainly perform many functions, just as 500+ certainly raised the lives of many families, but the demography did not improve. [[He fixed it. He's stopped the inheritance.]] And with absolute concern, I'd like to ask... If another such simple cash transfer 500+, 300+ does not work, then why don't you just change your tactics, act systemally, multi-trackly, two-levelly? That's just what's missing. This money is needed, but there's no system support, no barriers, no funding to build day care. It's not enough to shove more kids in one room, you have to have more of these daycare centers, adjust the program to make it more flexible. I won't mention it again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Associated with living+, with support for nannies. I wanted to say this to you: there is no reason for us not to support this project, but I would like to appeal to you from here to consider projects that will be systemic solutions, not just transfers of money into parents' accounts, because that's not what parenting is about, so that parents can buy something for their children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u30	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u31	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you how the proposals for a continuous benefit are made, under which the parental benefit of PLN 1000 is paid for the first year of age and the benefit is paid when the maternity benefit is not collected. Whether the benefit in question will be maintained and the amount of annual budget support will therefore rise to 24 000 for certain persons.? Or maybe the whole new project of the Polish Deal is that we will first take 12 thousand from the families. from the current program, then in the light of the spotlights to give it the same amount previously taken? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u32	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u33	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Just a moment ago we had the opportunity to hear these words: publishing money, propaganda programs, a more flexible approach, i.e. That parenting isn't about buying. Yes, parenting is about a responsible government supporting the families that they have, having children that they want, and allowing parents, mothers to go to work. This is precisely what the "Milch+" programme is for. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister made it clear: the family is the foundation of a strong state. We can't forget that. Nobody in Law and Justice denies that the "Milch' programme was set up in 2011. But here are some data: in 2011 40 million (Dzwonek) were allocated to this project supporting Polish families in 2018 - 450 million. Do you see the difference? Minister, hot request: In what financial dimension does the Law and Justice Government support Polish families? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u34	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Monica Rosa to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! As we all know, the biggest barriers to having a child are difficult material conditions, housing, job insecurity or lack of employment, but also uneven division of responsibilities between partners in terms of raising a child, heavy burden on women, lack of access to daycare and kindergarten. When we were in economic times, you were able to remove these barriers slowly. I wonder why the idea that a new 500+ program, the 12,000, will make more babies. Because the fact that, for some period of time, families will be better is clear. But all the barriers that I have mentioned, which the Minister, Mr. Messengers, has spoken of, are not so easy to disappear. What about health care? What about education? What about the availability of communication, care, all those things that make families feel safe? But there's another element. You keep saying that children are an investment. What about the kids who are in foster care? What about children with disabilities, with adults with disabilities (the bell), with mothers of those children who cannot work, deinstitutionalization, with systemic problems, which this programme and the state have unfortunately not solved for 6 years? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u36	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Katarzyna Kotula.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to ask you what my friend just asked me. The proposed amendment to the 500+ programme assumes that children placed in foster care who had not received a 500+ benefit will now receive it. It's a very good decision. Luckily, that's gonna change. However, it is incomprehensible why foster care providers will not be able to benefit from the provision of family care capital. Why should grandparents or uncles of a child who take care of them be deprived of this support? Are foster children worse, or do they have fewer needs? The exclusion of these people has absolutely no justification, it is meaningless juggling benefits and multiplying exceptions that hit carers, but most of all hits children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski will now ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister presented statistics on care facilities. Most of these facilities appeared mostly in rural areas, remote areas, where these needs are greatest, where the problem with care is the greatest due to the fact that very often the time to get to work from these areas is much longer. Hence, there is, above all, hidden unemployment or a certain inability to get into work or to combine parenting with continuing to work. This programme - if I am wrong, the Minister will correct me - seems to stimulate (the bell) precisely the places of care in these small towns, often even those that are below the demographic line, i.e. those particularly excluded due to the small number of inhabitants. Thank you very much. Sorry for the extension of your time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u40	No problem, sir. Now the question will be asked by Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u41	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In January, the ban on abortion entered into force, which means that women who know that they will give birth to a terminally ill child must prepare themselves for the care of this sick, often disabled child throughout their lives. These children sometimes die right after giving birth, sometimes they live a few days, and sometimes they live a very long time. If this child is alive and in the family, this family rarely chooses to have another child. Because the weight that has fallen on them is so huge that they won't be able to make that decision, decide for the next kids. Hence my question: Does the government therefore plan to introduce the provision of parental capital for families that have one but terminally ill child? And one more question. After 18 years of age, these disabled children (the bell) are still children for parents. In March, I submitted a draft law which is the implementation of the 2014 Constitutional Court judgment. When are you going to take this project out of the freezer and when are you going to deal with the real support of people with disabilities and their carers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Paul Rychlik, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u43	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no money and there will be no money - these are the words of the well-known Civic Platform policy, which are generally a summary of the policies of the pro-family government of the Civic Platform and PSL. Since 2015, rhetoric and streaming to Polish families have flown from the 500+ programme, from the school work. Thanks to good economic policy, unemployment has decreased, average wages have increased by 60%. But all of this is not enough when it comes to demographic policy, demographic statistics, which is why we are now discussing the Law and Justice programme The 2040 Demographic Strategy and its points, i.e. family care capital. Minister, there was talk of daycare. I wanted to ask you how much the number has increased. [[♪ The bell ♪]] daycare places and how many small Poles benefit from the "Maluch+" programme. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u44	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Joanna Fabisiak to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many of my previous speakers have said that this bill is support for women who want or need to return to work and want to combine parental functions with work. But if so, it's support, spending money on crèches that aren't there - sometimes they don't exist at all... Queues to places in daycare, as you know, carry a few hundred people. Isn't it better to go back to 100% babysitting? The question immediately to the Minister: How many families benefited from this support when it was 100% , i.e. until 2017 inclusive? And how much does it use today? Second thing. If this is to be the support of a woman, it should also be available for the first child. Because there's a gap here. What the Civic Platform has voted, proposed and voted, is a free annual holiday. And then there's no place in nursery, there's only kindergarten that's quite accessible. But these 2 years need to be filled with something, someone, nanny or nursery (the bell), where there are no seats, or give your mother the opportunity to work. One last thing, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, work safety. You are very right to say that a woman should be able to work hybridly, online, in any way. This should be available to her, but the practice is that if a woman can't come to work every day for 8 hours, very often she is simply thrown out of this job by the employer in a more or less cultural way. This, too, is what you should do if you need - and you need - to seal the women's aid system. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u46	No problem, Member. The question will now be asked by Mrs Teresa Wargock.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All clubs made statements of support for this law and further work, possible amendments. The discussion breaks the consensus expressed by a good programme. I would very much like to appeal to everyone to really accept this programme together, because you know that and you are talking about it from this speaker, that stabilisation, certainty of support conditions not for two years, not for the term of the Sejm, but for a generation, for 20 years, to bring a child to adulthood is what, as a parliament and a government, we should give to young people who are at the start of their way into adult life. I wanted to say one thing to Mrs Kotula, because she hurt me very much. If the Left thinks that law and justice treat women like vending machines... You really need to give up that language. You can't put it that way. I wrote it down 'cause I jumped off the hook. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask you, Madam President, not to use such assessments and opinions. Women are treated as they should when it comes to their life plans, needs, aspirations. The care capital allows the family to decide autonomously on the form of care, the number of children, the direction in which they spend the funds they receive. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u48	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Kotula will have a chance for a return. The question will now be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Einstein said it was crazy to repeat a certain action and expect other results. If I'm looking at this program, I have the impression that PiS thinks somehow this time this program will affect fertility in any way. What actually makes it possible to increase children's lives in countries like this. France, it is to enable women to combine their work fully with the raising of children, participation in this partner, the fact that there are crèches to which a child can be sent, the fact that a woman can carry out both as a mother and as an employee. But it's also about what you left behind. In Poland, twenty thousand children were born thanks to the in vitro program. If you really want Polish women to have children, then let them have it, then restore the in vitro program so that it can be accessible to everyone, not just those who are the richest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u50	Thank you very much, Member. The question will now be asked by Mrs Urszula Ruseck.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The introduction of family care capital is really a very good program that is part of the system of family support. On the other hand, the discussion in the Chamber reminds me - I have déja vu - of the times when we introduced the 500+ programme. Populistic. Why not the first child? And these are all the questions that the Civic Platform is asking. Hit your own breasts. But when it comes to demographics, I don't have enough time, but I'm going to say this: ask yourselves what would have happened if the 500+ program hadn't been there. After all, in earlier years, there were data from the Central Statistical Office, which said what the decline in childhood would be. The program has fulfilled its role, but in order for demography to improve, you must constantly work on supporting your family and helping your family. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, there is a report by the Supreme Audit Chamber of 2015 on how the family policy conducted by the PO-PSL government looked. I encourage you to read, because from it you can learn interesting things: that there was no system policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u52	Thank you very much, Member. The question will now be asked by Mrs Beata Arrow.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u53	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Despite the words that negate family policies, Polish families accept the programs offered by us with great joy. I know that these programs are a guarantee and stability for women who want to take on the roles of motherhood and parenthood. Minister! In addition to financial resources, the bill includes the introduction of permanent funding, i.e. a reduction in the parent's fee for a child's stay in a nursery, a children's club or a daily caretaker. I would like to ask who and under what conditions this benefit will be, in what amount and for what period.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u54	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, this program is such a program to return what Law and Justice is constantly taking away from Poles in the form of ever higher taxes. We all see rising prices in shops, rising service prices, rising transport prices. Poles pay more and more. The omnipresent cost destroys the finances of Poles and this is a program that in fact returns these funds taken from the PiS. However, the problem is the state of public services such as education, where parents lead their children to school, but unfortunately they are not sure that these children will receive the knowledge that will allow them to cope in life, because the programs that you are preparing reflect the needs of the past and not the challenges of the future. And that's the problem. For PLN 3 billion, about 60,000 could be created. places in kindergartens, which could actually relieve families. Minister! Do you think of public services at all, public services that today lie apart are forgotten and whose state has deteriorated catastrophically over the last six years of your governments? [[Voice from the hall: But what are public services?]] [[But what are you talking about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u56	Thank you very much. [[Facts, Member.]] [[Fairy tales.]] I would like to ask Mrs Kotula now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u57	Mrs. Member! You were actually offended by the truth. Many of us in this room sitting here today are probably mothers. I'm trying today as a 44-year-old woman, the mother of a 20-year-old daughter, to put myself in the position of these young women. You say to them, "We'll give you money, and you give birth." You cut out a piece of social policy, you actually only focused on these little kids, and you say it's pro-family policy. You're not looking at the whole thing. You took away women's right to choose, to decide whether and when they want to have children, because you don't accept that there are women who just don't want to have babies. You don't support the in vitro program, you don't really deliver on all the promises I've been talking about, about the environment of people with disabilities, and they're really those families that need your support. You're giving a baby voucher, 12 grand. For two years. And then what? [[♪ The bell ♪]] After 18 years of age, when someone wants to learn, and costs are rising with a child, women simply have to count on themselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u58	Thank you very much, Member. In this list, the list of persons enrolled in the questions was exhausted. Now I ask Minister Barbara Socha, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u59	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am very pleased that today we are discussing this project, that I can answer your questions. I was sitting here yesterday, listening to a discussion about the changes to the 500+ family law, and I'm gonna be honest with you that if you compare that discussion with today's discussion, I think we've done something impossible as a government. Namely, this programme enjoys your support, both the Left Club and even the Confederation, which was for me, I admit honestly, unexpected. I was wondering which aspect of this programme would be criticised. Whether the applications are only accepted electronically or for any other reason. There were a lot of obstacles yesterday. You can't see them today. I am very happy about this, and for this - I think I can say - thank you very much for the political consensus, because this is very, very important. One by one, I will try to address these various more specific issues. At the beginning of the system issues. There was often a charge here that we treat family policy as a handout of money and nothing else. We don't have a proposal to make. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's exactly the opposite. We started as a government six years ago with the most basic things - financial security for families. And we're absolutely not stopping here. For example, today's sitting of the Sejm is best demonstrated by the fact that not only the project on care capital is being conducted today, but also programmes that solve the first basic barrier to the first child, namely housing problems. Two more projects will be discussed today in this Chamber. Is it a health care issue? Absolutely. Let me remind you that in July we lifted limits to specialists. In general, health protection is one of the most important parts of the Polish Order and I agree that it has a huge impact on procreation issues. We're in the middle of a consultation, and we're running out of consultations on the Demographic Strategy. We have received a lot of comments, recommendations for strategies from very different institutions. On the other hand, from honourable Members such recommendations, analyses, comments to this strategy are unlikely to be received. And here I am very sorry, because this is the kind of discussion we were hoping for. The solutions will be implemented one at a time. Today we are really talking about one of the many that has already taken place, which is happening and which is going to happen. On the other hand, we absolutely approach these topics on a system basis. Let me just say that the chief expert on your part, Prof. Irena Kotowska, when asked about the commentary on the Demographic Strategy, said that perhaps this document has great shortcomings in her opinion, but she is glad that it is, because for 20 years she could not ask for it. And that, I think, is the best opinion on what's been going on for 20 years before our governments. And now it's about caring capital itself. This is not another chip, as you call it... [[From the Left...]] ...for women. This is an instrument that - I am glad that the Members of the Confederation have noticed - supports families in combining work and family life. It gives first and foremost freedom of choice, because it supports those solutions that parents prefer, and the preferences of Poles are different. That's exactly what we examined. There is a huge crowd of parents, almost 1/4, who thinks that day care is the optimal place for children of this age. But more than 30% of parents think that individual care, best provided by family members, is optimal. And we want to create solutions that serve all Poles, all parents. Not only those who want to send their children to day care, but also those who want to take care of nannies or care themselves. And this is a step - I repeat: a step - this is not a solution, which is a revolution, it is a big step in this direction. And I'm very happy for him because the gap we called the nursery gap is 2. -3. year of the child's life - is actually problematic for parents, especially for parents of other children, because, we know about it, these are not the most important problems when deciding about the first child. With the first child, the two main barriers are: housing - this is also the issue we are solving at this meeting today - and the problem of stable, flexible work. Here it is not true that nothing is happening in this area. It is already included in the work list of draft amendments to the Labour Code, which regulates remote work and flexible work for parents. So that is absolutely not true. There are a lot of these projects. It's happening. We're working on another one, among others. the implementation of EU directives on the pooling of child care work. With regard to who is entitled to this benefit, of course, parents of second and subsequent children for the chosen period, 1 year or 2 years, in the total amount of 12 thousand, also to choose from. Here, too, we give flexibility to parents, because we foresee that, for example, the implementation of the EU directive will result in fathers having 9 weeks extra leave, and those families who decide to use these leave by fathers will be able to reduce their period of taking care capital by just one year and thus gain more money. The situation of each family is different, so we try to design these solutions flexibly so that each family can choose the best option for it. This project also has another very important effect, an effect on local governments. And it comes out very strongly to the expectations of local government. During these several months of work in the Ministry, I received many letters from various local governments, from the presidents of large cities, from local authorities from smaller municipalities asking for a system approach to the issue of maintaining seats in crèches, because today it is a huge burden on local governments. And we know well that there are local governments in Poland that invest very strongly because they can afford it, but there are also those who are in trouble. Ladies and gentlemen, this project is a systematic solution to this problem, because each second and subsequent child receives an additional benefit of PLN 500. That's about as much as the local governments had to do on average to keep their seats. And what is more, I stress, this is very important, we write a legal commitment that 400 PLN for every first child in daycare will be allocated directly to daycare, to which parents will report with the first child. This solves absolutely this age-old problem of caring for day care. And we anticipate that this will give local governments greater interest in creating new places. It's not absolutely true that we don't finance it. Ever since the program was extended... And here too, it is worth recalling that the funding of this programme has been increased repeatedly to 450 million over the last few years. Thanks to this, we already have 200,000 daycare places. And this funding will continue to be maintained. Moreover, it will be increased from next year thanks to EU funds, both to date under the ESF Fund and to the new ones that will come from the National Reconstruction Plan, which I hope will soon be accepted. And that will mean triple the spending on day care, including this system support for maintaining places in daycare, I hope that it will encourage local authorities to invest in day care. However, please remember that we are approaching, in terms of this number of 200,000 seats, to a certain saturation, you can call it that, demand. Of course, I know that in many municipalities there are no crèches at all, and I think that this will make them. However, there are many places where we already see that these seats are available today. So that we invest in the creation of new places, we invest in maintaining those that are already there, and that will reduce costs and availability, not only geographical ones, but also financial availability is increasing. I will respond to the final point whether Mrs Lubnauer's comment on Einstein, who said that it is difficult to expect another outcome of the same experience for the second time. No, it absolutely proves that we don't understand differences and we don't understand the basic thing about building pro-family policy, which is complexity. It's not like we take one block and bring another one. Absolutely not. We are expanding the system and this solution, which today from the perspective of parents can be called an additional amount of funds, this is not an additional 500+, additional, I stress. This is a program that increases the ability to combine work with childcare. In many different ways, this simple programme in relation to local governments, and to parents, and to employers... This is a system of connected vessels, and I think we've been able to design it well, responding to so many different needs and conditions. I'm sorry, I just wanted to answer. Parental witnessing 1000 PLN for the first year, which is supposed to disappear, so that we can announce custody capital in the light of the spotlights. Absolutely not, that is absolutely not true. We don't need headlights. The benefits that have been so far, they all exist. Moreover, this parental benefit, which is entitled to maternity benefits for the first year, will be continued. And then, from the 12th month of our life, we transfer the right to similar care capital benefits for the next 24 months, so that the first three years, which are crucial from many perspectives, can be more easily organised by parents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u60	We also thank the Minister for answering questions. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on family welfare capital, contained in print No 1509, to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Dear Members, At the request of our colleagues on the finance committee and as we have a slight acceleration, I am declaring a time-out. 10:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min. 19 hrs. 10 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws (prints Nos 1532 and 1532-A). I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski to present the justification of the bill along with the self-correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u61	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today I have the honour to present a government draft law implementing the changes provided for in the Polish Tax Order programme. These include: Up to 30,000. PLN, i.e. 10 times tax-free, increase to 120 thousand. PLN, almost half, tax threshold and reduction of lump sums for strategic industries. As a result, it means that there is no tax on people earning minimum wage and from 2/3 of pensioners. This also means that the number of people paying tax at 32% it will decrease by half, i.e. by 620 thousand. persons. This is a historic tax reduction. Next year, as many as 18 million Poles will benefit from it. The changes will leave as much as PLN 16.5 billion in their pockets. It is also an important step towards building a modern tax system that taxpayers expect, such as the one that operates in the west of Europe, Germany, France or the UK. What's the system? One where there are no significant differences between the taxation of persons doing the same job, where only the type of contract they have concluded with the employer differs. It is also a system where - as in the world - lower income is taxed lower and higher - higher. Finally, it is a system that strongly supports investments and innovations implemented by both Polish companies and foreign investors. Who in particular will benefit from these changes? They will benefit not only workers, pensioners and, above all, entrepreneurs. This is PLN 16.5 billion, which will return to them as a result of increased consumption and will provide fuel for their rapid development. But that's not all. Polish government in taxes is primarily a tax reboot of the economy. This is a package of several reliefs and facilitations designed to support our domestic business. That's what I'd like to talk to you about for a second. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The whole world, not just us in Poland, is now struggling with the effects of the pandemic. The pandemic has shown us how fragile supply chains are, how easy it is to disrupt trade between continents or stop production. That is why already large global companies decide to move their business centres to our region in order to be close to consumers from Western Europe. Around the big business will create a whole ecosystem of discounts for companies, which thanks to big orders will be able to grow quickly, grow from small to medium, and from medium to large. This is a great opportunity for Poland, but also for our neighbours. None of the countries in our region are waiting passively for major international investments. On the contrary, all countries are fighting to get investors to choose them. They are fighting to ensure that domestic companies benefit as much as possible from the emergence of big players on the market. We also want to join this race and we have a chance to win it. That is why the Ministry of Finance has prepared a tax package for the restart of the economy. These are comprehensive tax changes. Their effect will be an incentive for big global players to bet on Poland and significantly facilitate the development of small and medium Polish business. How exactly are we gonna do that? First of all, we will create from the beginning of next year conditions improving the attractiveness of Poland as a place of development of companies, regulations which will attract to us human and financial capital. We will encourage, convince to Poland investors who will choose us to locate companies and create new jobs. We will also invite our compatriots to return to the Vistula River. We'll offer them favorable conditions to return and invest their money. We will also create a friendly climate for the development of family businesses. Secondly, we will implement tax solutions that will directly convince Poland of the great business. Special service for strategic partners, simplified clearing procedures, as well as flexible reinvestment rules and flexibility of investment portfolio development - this is our proposal for those who will now decide whether to place their investments in Poland or in another country of our region. Thirdly, we will make it easier for companies to invest in innovation and productivity, industry 4.0, i.e. in those sectors of the economy that have the highest potential and generate the highest added value. We will create incentives to create new technologies on the Vistula River and to implement new products. We will support the modernisation of production and investment in workers. It is about investing specifically, directly in them, in their new skills, but also about providing them with modern tools to increase their productivity. Fourthly, we will help companies to acquire new markets and in Poland and abroad. We will create favorable conditions to join forces between businesses, some of which are looking for capital and others want to locate their resources in promising companies. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first tax segment of the part of the Polish government, the tax restart of the economy, is an investment in innovative business. We want every stage of the production process located in Poland to involve tax facilitations. The first one is work on the idea for a new product. There's already an R &amp; D relief there. The second is the translation of the idea into the language of practice. From next year it will be dedicated to the relief for the prototype. Further, at the time of start-up of business production, it should support the relief for robotics and the relief for the employment of strategic and innovative workers. Finally, the lower rate should be taxed income from sales of invented and manufactured goods in Poland. This can be achieved thanks to the ease of IP Box. Therefore, from next year all these solutions will not compete with each other, but, on the contrary, in parallel with each other, reinforce each other's actions. The second segment is to support the development and expansion of companies. With the inflow of capital to Poland, big investments before small and medium-sized businesses will open up new opportunities for development. There will be investors, and with them big contracts. We want companies in the SME sector to benefit as much as possible from new opportunities on the market. We know that in order to do this, they will have to invest in development and their potential. For this they will simply need money and therefore it is necessary to build a tax system that will be investment-friendly, will create a friendly climate around them. That is why we are creating solutions that will effectively encourage business to invest profits. First of all, it will be reliefs supporting the entry of Polish companies to the stock exchange and reliefs operating on the other hand, which will encourage investors to invest in Polish companies, in Polish start-ups either directly or through venture capital funds. We also provide for tax reliefs that will facilitate the restructuring of companies, which is often the key to improving the efficiency of business operations. Companies should also search effectively for new markets so that their growth is not limited by domestic demand. Here, relief will help to support their domestic and foreign expansion. Finally, for companies that want to reduce their tax costs to the maximum, we envisage significant changes in Estonian CIT. Estonian CIT means no tax accounting, 0% tax as long as the company does not pay its shareholders profits. The introduction of the new Estonian CIT, Estonian CIT 2.0, means a common simplification. Its application will be possible not only for limited liability and public limited liability companies, but also for limited limited liability companies, limited limited liability companies, private limited liability companies and cooperatives, regardless of their size. A novelty is the lack of link between the use of Estonian CIT and the obligation to make investments in the coming years. It is a lack of tax on entry and exit and, most importantly, a significant reduction in the rate of tax. The small CIT-ship, i.e. the one earning revenue of up to EUR 2 million per year by paying the dividend, will pay only 20% of the combined CIT and PIT, which is almost as much as it would pay as a self-employed PIT itself. And this, let's remember, without the need to pay the health contribution. So it is one of the most attractive ways of taxing in general functioning in the Polish legal system. The third segment is dedicated to large investors. You might ask yourself: How do you convince Elona Musk to invest in Poland, to conquer space in cooperation with Polish small and medium-sized business? The big business needs three things: rapid information about the amount of taxes it will pay from the planned investment, as little formalities as possible in tax settlement and low taxation. And that's what we're giving to the big business in this project. Anyone who plans a big investment in Poland: whether a Polish company or a foreign investor, will be given the possibility of obtaining interpretation No 590 from the Minister of Finance. It is one decision, one window, one document that will cover all tax consequences of investments - PIT, CIT, VAT, excise duty, even customs or local taxes, one iron letter and 100% Security in contact with the IRS. Secondly, we want holding companies to be as cheap as possible. Therefore, from next year on, companies belonging to one owner will not have to account for VAT among themselves. Poland will join the 18 countries of the European Union that have introduced tax groups in the field of VAT. Moreover, we will abolish the unfavourable rules for the distribution of profits from Poland to countries outside the Union thanks to the Polish holding company - a new institution as regards income tax. Companies from the United States, Japan or China will be able to invest more effectively in Poland without intermediaries from Malta or Luxembourg. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The last segment of our strategy is the repatriation of capital. There is no question of the rapid development of small and medium-sized business without increasing the development potential of Poland. You can ask again what the Polish economy needs. Two things: people and money. Nearly 20 million Poles live abroad. Imagine what would happen if every tenth of them returned to Poland. That is why we offer our compatriots a package of incentives to return to the country with skills, experiences and capital acquired abroad. We offer workers and small business a relief to return, i.e. PIT/0 for returners. Entrepreneurs who have achieved success abroad will be encouraged to move to Poland where to manage their business. We give them favourable rules on the settlement of profits from the interests they conduct in other countries. In turn to the celebrities of culture and sport, our soccer snipers, the shooters' kings we offer favorable conditions for the settlement of sponsorship activities. Ladies and gentlemen! It is up to you whether Poland joins the global race for big investments and whether we will create a tax ecosystem in Poland, which will enable Polish business to take advantage of the opportunities that appear before it. In presenting the above, I kindly ask the High House to adopt the draft law as proposed by the government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear 7 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 3 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. We therefore proceed to the presentation of club and wheel positions. I now ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is a great honor for me to present this fundamental law, prepared by the Polish government, the Polish Government, these tax changes. I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club in relation to this project. I said: fundamental, because it actually introduces revolutionary changes, bringing huge benefits to taxpayers. Tax-free amount: 30,000. Evil, and it's common. Many years ago, no one dreamed of that amount, no one wanted to think about it, but this is the system that supports all taxpayers in a fair way, and especially those who have the lowest income. 'Cause, you know, like... in the case of pensioners, as regards the tax-free amount, pension of up to 2,5 000. zł is a tax-free pension. So, in fact, it consumes all these ideas, slogans about pensions without tax. Of course, they were fake, because if the pension was $10,000, those who received it would get the most. If the pension was 1,500 zlotys, they'd get the least in retirement without tax. And here everyone to the threshold of 30,000. zł tax does not pay. Those who have very high pensions and income in the order of 50, 60 or 100,000. zł, of course, from this surplus tax will pay. This is the change that really is a revolutionary change. 90% will benefit from this change Paying taxes. This is over 20 million people, including the vast majority of pensioners, including pensioners who are retiring from KRUS. There are no pensions at all that would be more than 2.5,000. zł. So they're all going to benefit from this change. This is extremely important. Another major change in the tax system - a huge leap of the first tax threshold from 85 to 120 thousand. zł. So, let's imagine, we treat it in a privileged way not only for those who make the least money, but also for those who make the average money - so that we can say it. Because what does that mean? Raising this threshold means that this threshold will apply to those who earn up to 10,000. PLN per month. So here we're not just talking about the poorest, the least earner, but also the average earner. If we also keep the joint settlement of the spouses, so if we multiply it, then the free amount will be 60,000. Two and 240,000. as a tax threshold. So even if one of the spouses earns more, the other earns less, it averages the settlement. That's another thing that's extremely important here. It is also important to decide on a health contribution which, although in part - not entirely yet, but in part - eliminates the unequal tax burden between those who earn the least and those who earn the most. This is the spread-out - those who earn the most, the percentage pays the least tax, that's how it is so far. It will still remain in a certain sense, but it will be much less, because this health contribution in a sense goes against this sense of justice. I know it's criticized because those who make $100,000. zł, so far they have paid pennies, you can say, in relation to their earnings for health care, and now they will pay a little more. But money for health care, here everyone agrees, is very much needed. This is, among others, the case. systematically aiming to spend 7% on health protection GDP. To this end, this law brings us closer, because so far, it can be said, those who have made an amount of about 100,000. zł, they paid the health contribution much less. And this is the fair health contribution, which is also extremely important. It's said here that it's very unfair for entrepreneurs. But, let's say, for which and for what earnings? Because if we're talking about entrepreneurs who make over a million dollars, and that's what they are, then so far the health premium for them has been 1%. [[Voice from the room: How much?]] 1 million a year. So far, the health contribution for them was around 1%. And this earner had to pay almost 8% at this point. So that was the difference. This imbalance is partly offset. I say: in part, because, in relation to entrepreneurs, privileges are still left behind and as a result of the decision that clearing companies in the form of linear tax pay 4,9% of the health contribution, it will be about half as low as the average employee pays. Of course, we understand that the entrepreneur is also at risk, so this health contribution is reduced - it could be said to be a risk premium. But this is extremely important. Also in the case of entrepreneurs who will account for a lump sum tax, the basis for calculating the health contribution will be completely different for those who have low income, up to 60,000. zł - these are sometimes invoked, proverbial, I don't know, hairdressers, activities of this type. But if we have more than 300,000. zł, only then (the bell) in a significant way is it growing. Unfortunately, time constraints do not allow a precise and precise discussion of this law. On the other hand, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to say that I am simply grateful to the Ministry for preparing this project, which leaves over PLN 16 billion in taxpayers' pockets and, most importantly, leaves this money to those who have made the least, who have so far borne the highest tax burden calculated in percentage terms. And this is the justice that, at least in part, is being realized. So thank you again. Of course, the Law and Justice will support this law decisively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u64	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mrs Izabela Leszczyn will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For starters, three numbers: 686, 23 and 7. 686 is the number of pages of this project, noisy and to the height of called the Polish Ład - it is more than it counts fire and sword - 23 is the number of laws that this project changes, and 7 is the number of minutes that parliamentary clubs have been given to debate this fundamental and revolutionary change, as Mr Kowalczyk said. Bravo, PiS! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Is that too much?]] You know what that means? [[Voice from the courtroom: On the committee...]] It means that the PiS does not want to discuss this Polish Łada for too long, because it knows that in a moment it will turn out that it is not a reduction, but a rise, not a success, but a failure, gentlemen of the PiS. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Worry for yourself.]] Suffice it to say that the most important element of PiS's governance is to eliminate the relief on health contributions, i.e. to increase PIT for all taxpayers. [[Applause]] For some - almost 8% , and for liner businessmen - almost 5%. [[However, it is not enough from the accounts, Mrs Bauer. Weak.]] A raise, then, sir, but a raise. Abolishing this relief is - attention - taking 80 billion PLN from taxpayers' pockets. PiS says you need them for the health system. Okay, except they don't give it to the health system, because only 7 billion zlotys will go to the NFZ. That's not even a tenth of what they're gonna take from people. What are they gonna do with the others? Well, what they can do best: they will take one to give to others, only that the effect of this cast will be that the wealthier Poles will do well: they will go privately to a doctor, children will send to a private school, like almost all the ministers from PiS, and it will be poorer, because the queues to doctors will extend, the health system will fall more and more and more, and these children from poorer families will take even a chance to develop their abilities and passions, because there will be no extracurricular activities in schools, because you are taking the local authorities too. [[Applause]] Mr President, of the 16 billion you are talking about staying in your pockets... [[They're staying.]] ...12 you take from the same people because they would get the services they need, they would get a good school for the child you take from the poor because you send your children to private schools. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] Then ask Minister Dworczyk where his children learn. [[Voice from the room: But you're talking about me.]] May the poorer become even richer, a little richer because of this change, but that is not going to happen. [[Right, really?]] We know why, and Mr Kowalczyk keeps pretending he doesn't know. Mr President, what do you think will happen to prices if you bear the cost of manufacturing products and services? Go ahead. How are you gonna raise your taxes to all those who produce and create jobs because that's what your order is about, what happens to the prices? Mr President, they will go up even more than they are going to, although we are already leaders today in terms of costs, throughout the European Union. [[Applause]] So the whole benefit of the amount of free money that was supposed to help the poorest will be eaten by what economists call inflation tax, and a normal, normal person knows that it's just expensive. In the first sentence of the explanatory memorandum, the government wrote: The aim of the proposed change is to create a friendly and fair tax system. It would be good if you only knew how to do it. Because is it fair to tax entrepreneurs in the first year after the recession and in uncertain times of pandemics? You don't even know if you're about to shut down the economy. And what did the entrepreneurs do last year? They tried to keep jobs, and for a year they actually fought and struggled with the lockdown. The Civic Coalition supports tax progression. We believe that richer, better earners should be solidarity-based and pay proportionally higher taxes than the poor. [[Oh...]] But, sir, that's something you need to know. [[Applause]] [[That's right, bravo.]] This must be implemented in an economically stable time, one year in advance. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] We need real consultations, but not facades. We must finally invite experts, not based on Mr. Patkowski. Experts who will tell you... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: From the platform?]] [[Voice from the room: Experts from the Platform I saw.]] ...what the consequences of higher taxes will be for economic development. That's right, economic development. Minister Sarnowski - in propaganda you are really good - he spoke so nicely about innovation, about progress, about catching up with the West... [[The voice from the hall: He spoke very nicely because he knows it.]] ...about the prosperity that we all dream of as in the countries of the old Union, only Minister, you have already introduced a few such pro-innovative and pro-development reliefs. E.g. It was supposed to be Estonian CIT, turned out to be PiS-owski. It was supposed to benefit 200,000. The companies, and how much did they benefit? Ok. 300 companies - 300. That's how you put in place a pro-development tax system. In order to catch up with the West, in order to catch up with the living standards of our citizens, our western neighbours, the economy must indeed be innovative, labour productivity must grow. But after all, what you do as part of the Polish Order is counterproductive, because if you charge with higher taxes people who are well-educated, creative, innovative, computer scientists, programmers, free professions, highly skilled workers, i.e. all those who are about to turn this economy into innovative ones, then how do you want to ensure innovation, competitiveness and - as Prime Minister Morawiecki said: this escape from the middle development trap. So your change is neither wise nor fair. Well, at least you're simplifying the tax system. No. I'll tell you what your former finance minister said about your Polish Łada. He called him Frankenstein. Remember, the complexity of the tax system translates into a gray zone, and cloudy water is always an opportunity for cheaters. The complex tax system will discourage honest entrepreneurs and investors. What were you talking about? Some kind of repatriation, Minister? Don't think about the justification of the bill, not propaganda, but about the rules that are harmful and that you are implementing. There is no Prime Minister Morawiecki here, who boasted of Polish Ład (Dzwonek), there is not even a Minister of Finance, you came the Deputy Minister. We respect you very much, but don't talk nonsense from this speaker. I'm almost done, Marshal. Two sentences. The question remains, why do we even have to eat this frog? I'll tell you. The PiS hopes that by the time people realize that they haven't gotten better, they're just getting worse, they're gonna have time to run parliamentary elections, and they're always trying to fool people. Therefore, in the sense of responsibility for the state, for employers, for employees, but also for those whom the State must help, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition makes a request to reject this harmful to the Polish economy, for Polish taxpayers and for all Poles a legislative bubble. [[Prognosis down.]] We request that he be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u66	Thank you very much, Member. [[It's propaganda, nothing more, no arguments.]] I'm transmitting. I now ask Mr Dariusz Wieczorek to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u67	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Someone left a pen. [[That's mine, thank you.]] I don't know. Maybe it's recording something here. [[It wasn't me.]] Yeah, well, there's specialists here. [[Pegasus is that side.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present on behalf of the club Leży a position towards the presented bill on the amendment of the Act on income tax on individuals, the Act on corporate income tax and some other laws, a project which you are noisyly calling an element of the Polish Government, and is an ordinary project imposing new taxes and new taxes on Poles and Poles, on entrepreneurs and on all of us. Indeed, the project proposed by Law and Justice is such a legislative and tax monster Frankenstein. That's a fact. This is actually stitched up with many different laws, with many different ideas of the law, which, in short, contains many contradictions in itself. That is why - I am saying this right now to dispel any doubts - on behalf of the Left Club I want to make it clear: in the form that you are presenting this project today, the Left Club will not support it. What does that tell you? [[All right, polls down.]] First of all, what you've done when it comes to preparing this project is a legislative scandal. You've only given a month to consult. The Government Legislation Centre refused to give an opinion on this matter. Think about why. There was a clear opinion that in the case of 700 pages of a project amending taxes in Poland it is impossible to carry out a real analysis. As I know life, the government doesn't have such a real analysis either. Minister, today tell me you won't be making any more autofixes in a minute, because you've already made 11. You guys are gonna change this bill every day, because you see that he's stuck, and there's a problem with him. All you do is just PR. You're just showing good things because there are really good elements in this project, and there's no doubt about it, but you're hiding what this project is really about. It is about increasing the burden of Poles and Poles. On the one hand, you want to give, on the other hand take. You know perfectly well - we have talked about this many times - that whoever gives and receives it is in hell. You want us, unfortunately, to create this kind of tax hell. [[Applause]] There was supposed to be more money to protect health, there was supposed to be more money for citizens and there was supposed to be real tax progression so as to end up with a pathological system in Poland... [[It's supposed to be, isn't it?]] ...in which the least-earned earners are most incriminating. It was intended to simplify the system so that it was understandable to every worker and entrepreneur. There were noisy announcements that there would be raises for Poles and Poles. Well, High Sejm, in fact, this is one thing that you PR represent and tell the truth. There will be increases for Poles and Poles, for entrepreneurs, for the budgetary sphere. There will be increases in gas prices, there will be increases in energy prices, there will be increases in garbage prices, there will be increases in taxes, there will be increases in fuel prices. I can name a lot more raises. That's what you're offering us today. On the one hand, thanks to this law, Poles are supposed to earn more and keep it in their pockets. more financial resources. You're talking about a tax-free amount, it is. But on the other hand, you're charging pensioners and pensioners with a 90% health contribution. You say, "Yes, you've paid 17% so far." You won't be paying now. Only they'll pay 9%. [[17% and 9% is the difference.]] Of course, Mr President, that is a fact. On the other hand, the question is whether this change in the tax system will lead to an increase in the prices of municipal services, for example. Will it not lead to such a situation that those who have theoretically benefited from inflation will not, in fact, pay more due to the increase in costs? The Left Club analyzed an interesting thing about pensioners and pensioners. You're eliminating the possibility of deduction, for example. expenditure on medicines. [[Scandal!]] What does that lead to? It may turn out that, in fact, with this 90% contribution, pensioners and pensioners will pay more. So far, of course, you don't know it yet, because it's all gonna come out in the laundry. You are deceiving us all because it is not true that all pensioners in Poland earn 2.5 thousand. zł. That's not true. So the amount... [[Voice from the room: No one said that.]] Okay, but you have to remember. that the provisions on the tax-free amount will apply to those who earn up to 2.5 thousand. zł. As far as entrepreneurs are concerned, of course today you are introducing a reduction in your health contribution to 4.9%. Question: "Are workers employed on the basis of a contract of employment worse than entrepreneurs?" Why is there such injustice? Why are you doing this like this? This is a very big mistake in our assessment. The left is for taxes to be clear and legible. He is in favour of developing entrepreneurship in Poland. As far as health issues are concerned, only PLN 7 billion will be more. As far as local governments are concerned, 11 billion PLN will be less. A parallel bill on compensation for local governments is absolutely not going to change that, because you're cheating local governments again. Therefore, the Left will make amendments to this bill, including. amendments concerning local governments and reimbursement of funds lost in respect of this draft law, for local governments, as well as making amendments on taxation, additional tax on earners who earn more than 250 000. zł. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u68	Thank you very much, sir. I now invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u69	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Minister, The government of PiS, as the Minister said today, is dreaming of bringing Mr Elon Musk to Poland and investing in space technologies. Minister, very few will fall for this, especially after you've been treating the largest American investor for weeks. Don't tell those stories. [[Applause]] Elon Musk is well aware of how business is treated in Poland. The renowned company TMF Group has developed a ranking of 10 jurisdictions hostile to business and business. Ladies and gentlemen, including Poland's ranking, has recorded the sloppy biggest drop, from 34th place to 10th place. It was found in such elite groups as Brazil, Mexico, Colombia, Turkey, Indonesia, Bolivia and Costa Rica. Drama, Minister. And by reading into the bill that came to us today here in the High House, I have the overwhelming impression that we are going to advance a few more places in the future ranking. Listening to government representatives, government facilities, I cannot and cannot resist the impression in the Polish Coalition that the state is promoting the myth of a greedy billionaire entrepreneur in Poland, flowing in wealth, which now needs to be taken from all manifestations of wealth, so that tax rules can be established to take away as much as possible. And that is not true, a myth that needs to be overthrown here, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the United Right, every time. Because the Polish entrepreneur is not a millionaire, only this is a very hard-working man chasing from the first to the first one who cannot count on understanding the state when it comes to its share. The burden of ZUS and unstable tax situation make these entrepreneurs, often self-employed, often running several companies, far from functioning in a healthy, normal way. And yet here again today it is necessary to remind you that these entrepreneurs are paying into the state budget. 'Cause sometimes you think this budget is like yours. No, Commissioner, this is the budget to which entrepreneurs pay their money every month, earned by their hard work, so that you can carry out a lot of programs, sometimes useful, to carry out. Finally, be aware of this, for this law, which today is the subject of the procession, once again only confirms us in the belief that this is what you think. Of course, there are several solutions that are difficult not to make sense. It's an increase in the tax-free amount. Although you promised it six years ago, President Duda promised it in his first campaign. After six years, it's good that you're fulfilling that promise. The issue of the amount of free and pension. I completely disagree with Mr Kowalczyk here. Sir, you're sorting pensioners. There's gonna be a better pensioner-sort and a worse pensioner-sort again. [[Really?]] Yes, indeed, sir. And stop telling people what a wonderful blessing that will be. Is the pensioner who has 2600, 2700 zł monthly benefits any worse? What did he do, Mr Kowalczyk, to do to himself, that you would eliminate him from having a greater witness? After all, the fact that someone has, Mr... [[He'll gain 200 zlotys a month.]] But I didn't bother you. [[Then don't bother.]] That someone has PLN 2,700 today, $3,000. PLN or even 3.5 thousand. Evil, when it comes to the bigger pensions... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But you're in pain, but what I'm saying right now hurts, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS. Whoever's got three or three grand today. zloty pension, he didn't win this lottery, just like you did a little bit here, but he worked his whole life on this pension, and he paid off the tax on those big profits. Today, from the government of Law and Justice, he has a reward, in quotes - he is counted in a worse sort. And that's what we're against. And please do not juggle that it consumes pension claims without tax, because the citizens' project that was submitted here by the Polish People's Party - the representative of the committee was present in the room of Mieczysław Kasprzak - did not differentiate pensioners on the better and worse. It allowed in a comprehensive way to raise the level of existence, increase the benefit and improve the existence of Polish pensioners. [[On paper.]] One example that a little disproves the propaganda of success, as it will now be good for pensioners. Together with you, Mr Kasprzak, we have just examined how much the farmer will gain, who pays a monthly pension of 1 000. zł. He will gain less than PLN 60. It's not gonna help those oppressed pensioners who are facing crazy prices today, with rising inflation. Basic products, basic needs today have been very expensive, so this project has not changed the fate of pensioners in any significant way. You've talked a lot about how it's going to change now, how it's going to improve business. We will be here, in Poland, almost Silicon Valley, Minister. The Minister nods his head, confirms it. Minister, it's one quick question. Why was there no idea for a voluntary ZUS in this project (Bingle)? I think you're in contact with entrepreneurs who show that this is the first step today that would change the situation of many companies and come out of this hole we've been talking about. There is no will on the part of the United Right to significantly improve the situation of Polish, native enterprises. Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland does not see the possibility of supporting the project in this form. We will make an important effort to change his records so that he brings something important to the fate of the previously mentioned pensioners or entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u70	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Krzysztof Bosak to present his position as the Wheel of the Posel Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u71	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Vice Minister! Unfortunately, neither the Prime Minister nor the head of the governing party, nor the head of the Prime Minister's firm, nor anyone other than the Vice Minister - the glory that you have come to us - with whom we can discuss a project that is supposedly the most important element of the Polish Government, which is to be an epoch-based tax reform. 600 pages uploaded at such a rate that even the Government Legislative Centre did not provide us with an evaluation of this project. You can ask where is the strategy for responsible development, where is the constitution for business, where there is an announced dialogue with business environments. It's not all there. But I don't just want to criticize. I got three minutes to discuss a 600-page project that makes dozens of changes, which are being read by experts all over Poland at the moment, so let's try to praise it. Yes, your project will benefit the least-earned pensioners, although it eats inflation. Yes, raising the tax-free amount is a partial implementation of the Confederation's programme. We're glad you're listening to our voters' expectations. It's a pity that only in this case and in such a way that almost no one will benefit from it. Yes, raising the second tax threshold is right. But at whose expense do you want to do this? This will hit the middle class, it will hit entrepreneurs, in particular on one-man business activities. This will hit local governments to a great extent, both globally and in the various partial changes that you are making. You're making changes that are mega-complicated. The relief for the middle class is described as such a complicated equation that in order to understand who's really going to benefit from it, it means what part of the middle class, because certainly not all, it takes math or professional tax advisors. You're introducing a health premium of 4.9%. instead of the previous 300 PLN for people on a single-person business activity on a line and for programmers, but already 9% for those who are on the scale, and for members of the board. You're taking the deduction of your health contributions from the tax. We will make an amendment that restores the possibility of deduction of the health contribution from the tax. We encourage all opposition to vote in favour of this amendment. You do not introduce vacathio legis, so the jumping tax increase for many entrepreneurs will be already from January. It is not responsible to create friendly business rules in Poland. And as you understand what that means, it shows your attempt to introduce a 50% tax credit for immigrants, which you have falsely called a relief for return, the return of those who have never lived in Poland, and just a special breach for programmers. You understand that if there is someone left in Poland who can leave, you have to give him preferential rates. You know, a lot of people have problems running away, and you're raising their taxes. Total liquidation of real estate depreciation. Blocking the deduction of own rental property, which is used by many family businesses. So-called. income tax (Bell) for large corporations, which will cover all Polish companies, including small and medium-sized enterprises, which have a more complex structure than that the owner owns the entire company. You want to support the healthcare sector, and the Chief Medical Council believes that your reform will hit the medics. You say you can escape your blessings by going to sp. z o.o. Or going on a flat-rate basis. But the flat-rate is not for car workshops, it is not for parts dealers, it is not for pharmacies and for many other people it is blocked. When it comes to the transition to sp. You're forgetting about a two-year withdrawal, you're forgetting that you've tied people to shield regulations, EU funds. It's not as simple as running away from your blessings. The Confederation shall submit an amendment restoring the possibility of deduction of the health contribution. The Confederation will also propose its programme - Poland again, among others. simplifying tax law and eliminating 15 taxes that are unnecessary. Simplify people's lives instead of complicate them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u72	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Henning-Kloska will now present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u73	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Main conclusion at the beginning. We can say goodbye to a fair and simplified tax system for years, because you create a complex system, incomprehensible even for accountants and tax advisors, because even they have a problem with this law. The system is full of new thresholds, discounts and algorithms. What you put on the table is more like a bunch of wires that are hard to untangle to know where they're leading us. Polish Load was supposed to be the way to the welfare of Poles and Poles, but for some it became a concrete rescue wheel. The president has different phobias. He's afraid of independent courts, independent media, independent opinions. Similarly, he fears independent entrepreneurs, active people, self-thinking, courageously taking matters into his own hands, creating jobs. Your dream is to destroy not only personal freedoms in Poland, but also economic freedom. Raising the tax-free amount and the tax threshold are basically civilised issues. This should have happened a long time ago, for example due to wage increases or inflation. But to compensate for this growth by eliminating a write-down of a health contribution is simply a scam, because fraud is just an increase in the amount free in comparison with the write-down of a contribution. The reduction of the tax burden to those below is important. But you have no idea how to make Poles make more money. So what did you do? You're even down and you're starting a modern class war today, putting people working against self-employed people. Nor do we agree to the additional burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. We're about to have a fourth wave of pandemic. You don't rule out another lockdown, you've lost control of inflation and rising prices. This certainly is not the time to raise taxes for entrepreneurs. Poland 2050 expects, like most Poles, fair management of our money, rationality and transparency. You've had a huge problem with this for years. We want to live in a country that can be trusted and which guarantees us the high quality of public services. You promise people 100 zlotys more pay, but you forget to tell them that in a moment 200 zlotys more will have to devote to private tutoring for children or a private doctor, because you do not allocate this money to healthcare. [[Really? There's a lot of things to say, but this?]] We also do not agree with the destabilisation of local government budgets. Finally, your last deposit: turnover tax. No one really knows if it will touch those who avoid paying taxes, or whether it will become a concrete flywheel for those who today are hard to scrape off in times after the pandemic. The relief to return, Minister, may be an incentive for those who have stayed here to leave Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What do we want? We want the tax system stabilized. The Minister of Finance cannot change the tax rules on a quarterly basis. We want to simplify the system, eliminate complex algorithms, thresholds, bases which on the one hand kill the entrepreneurship of Poles, on the other hand lead to total bureaucracy of entrepreneurship. We want work in Poland to be a source of satisfaction both for those who work in employment and for those who create jobs themselves. We want each of the taxpayers to be convinced that when they pay taxes, they buy public services at a really high level. This is 3U, our 3U Poland 2050: simplify taxes, facilitate their accounting, make available in the form of public services what Poles pay for. Only then will such a solution be called the Polish Ład. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Fourth U - calm down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u74	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Agreement will be presented by Mr Jarosław Gowin. You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u75	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Polish Load is a big hit in the middle class. Polish Governance in the tax layer is a socialist fraud. Under the cloak of a slight tax reduction for a less-earning part of society, people are hit by hardworking, entrepreneurial, creative people. The original project, categorically protested by the Agreement and by me as the Minister responsible for the economy, provided for a drastic increase in taxes for millions of entrepreneurs by 50% - something unusual on the scale of the civilized world. Under the influence of the wave of criticism from entrepreneurs, from experts, from local authorities, even from trade unions, under the influence of the Agreement's protest, the government has partially withdrawn from extremely harmful solutions, but the planned increase in tax burden is still unprecedented. And what are entrepreneurs going to do now, who suddenly from day to day, from 1 January will have to pay taxes by about 30% Higher? They will either fire employees, either liquidate their companies, or shift the cost of jumping taxes to customers - raise the prices of their products and services. In this way, something that is already a nightmare for millions of Polish families will be deepened - it will become more expensive. On the Polish Łada they will first lose entrepreneurs, and then we will lose all of them, especially the least earning ones, because they most painfully feel the rise in prices. The Polish Lad is a denial of the Strategy of responsible development. Mr Bosak rightly pointed this out. The Polish Load makes it less and less profitable to work and more and more profitable to live at the expense of the state, i.e. the general public. Until recently, the agreement was part of the United Right camp. One of the slogans of the United Right, one of our banners was the banner of economic patriotism. Meanwhile, Poland's Load hits Polish capital first and foremost. In the micro-, small family Polish companies, which for 30 years were a flywheel of economic development. Much has been said about how not to be a law, and here we have a great illustration of the denial of the constitution for business and all principles of rational legislation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Yes, there are positive solutions proposed by the Agreement in Poland: raising the tax-free amount, raising the first threshold, relief for the middle class when it comes to people employed for employment contracts, but in general the effects of the Polish government will be mourned for the Polish economy, Polish society, and I say this with full responsibility as a minister responsible for the economy until recently. To conclude, I would like to say that Marek Suski will not win the media war against the United States, Jarosław Kaczyński will not win the judicial war with the European Commission... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki won't win the war for taxes on economics rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u76	Thank you very much. The position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle will be presented by Mr Zbigniew Girzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unusual first. It just so happens it's your marshal's birthday today, so... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...I wanted to do it on behalf of... Thank you very much. ...my circle of Polish Affairs, but as you can see from the reaction of the hall, this is the opinion of all of us. [[We're joining you.]] About an hour, actually. 11.30 I'm done and have coffee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The change submitted by the government is an extremely extensive and even revolutionary change. No revolution is ever good because it brings a lot of changes in a fast time, and it's hard to prepare for them. Especially will it be difficult to prepare for small family businesses, and it is they who actually form the bones of the Polish economy. They are the driving force of our country, making us all who are in this room get salaries and diets, because they all make up our money, which we get from the state budget. And that's why taxes should be as low as possible and as simple as possible. Are these changes going in this direction? No. These taxes, unfortunately, in many areas... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] The place where they were reduced has been discussed, but in many areas they go up. [[Which ones?]] Because money, if there's gonna be more of them in the budget, they come from somewhere. First of all, it hits one person's business. Fortunately, it was partially eliminated, because of 9%, and this was a huge increase, we went down to about 5%, 4.9% Exactly. But it's too much anyway. If we add to that that these amounts cannot be deducted from taxes, we can see how much this will increase for all those who conduct one-man business: your hairdresser, the gentleman who runs the shop. They're gonna pay for this. That's not the way to do it, and that's the mistake that's cutting the branch of our economy. In the name of what is it done? This is done in the name of two employers in Poland. Big international corporations and state business. It cuts the branch that's the essence of a small family business. Taxes should really be smaller and therefore, on behalf of our Polish Case Circle, we propose to do so. If the government wants to create a new order, let it be the replacement of business income tax, i.e. CIT, income tax. If the government really wants to reduce taxes, let it introduce a uniform VAT rate of 15% It's actually going to help everyone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Have him introduce a voluntary ZUS for entrepreneurs. Let's finally keep the flat-rate contribution... [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] Thank you very much, sir. ...healthy for single-person business activities and regulates issues... Mr Paweł Zalewski, a non-attached Member, now has the floor. ...for cryptovalut. That is what we are proposing, and that is why we cannot support this in this form. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u78	Mr. Marshal! Fellow Members! New Deal It's a great name, it brings up a lot of good associations, it creates dreams. This bill is really the core of what you call the Polish Ład. She should be your object of pride. [[There it is.]] I look at government benches and I don't see a single constitutional minister. I don't see the finance minister responsible for this project. [[They're working. They work for Poland.]] I don't see a prime minister who talks so proudly about it. Why? I'm not surprised. They're ashamed and they've got something to do. Well, it's a law that's introduced by a ruse, suddenly, without public consultation, without much discussion. You say this is the biggest tax reform. Not reform. Change. But I'm sure it's the biggest. And such a change requires a very serious discussion. Have you made your commitment to Poles in 2015 elections, 2019? No. You're fooling them because you're not talking to them, and that's what I'm gonna talk about today. You don't talk to Poles. The question is: Is there a law against which Deputy Prime Minister Sasin, who is not here, is unable to express his view, because he had too little time to get acquainted with it, not to mention the Government Legislative Center, which also did not present its opinion, that we should debate today? Obviously not. Is the bill, which, suddenly, is introduced into the House, a law that brings something good? I'm sure you won't! This is the law, which Prime Minister Gowin spoke about, which actually attacks the middle class in Poland. It attacks people who are building an excellent majority of Polish GDP with their energy, their commitment. He attacks people whose group is huge in Poland. Entrepreneurs themselves, who operate on a one-man basis of economic activity, are 2.5 million. Add family to that. This is a great army, but in fact this middle class is much wider. Well, she was attacked by you today. Why? Because this order you introduced in 2015 is going bankrupt today. Today we have the largest, unimaginable debt of the public sector several years ago: PLN 1500 billion, PLN 1.5 trillion. This is unimaginable. Gierek never imagined such numbers, and debt during the Gameplay period led to the collapse of his power. Well, you're raising your taxes drastically. You are leading to the fact that the tax system is becoming opaque, that it increases the risk of doing business. And more, it gives the tax office an advantage in the relationship between the taxpayer and the tax office. Today, according to these regulations that you are introducing, every entrepreneur will have to hire large tax firms to defend himself effectively from the tax office. Very few can afford it. It is all about the fact that you have trained the Polish budget. So far you have drained, trained Polish entrepreneurs to create a system that does not help the poorest, as you promised, because the level of poverty in Poland has increased. Today it is 5.2% in the case of Polish families. That's more than when you took over in 2016. More. [[Applause]] This is because you have acquired companies of the Treasury, the administration. You've turned state institutions into a mechanism for making money for yourselves. [[Applause]] Raise your hands to those countries whose family members, friends, political co-workers have not been employed by you in administration, in companies of the Treasury. [[You'd just have to raise your hand.]] Thank you. One person. That's a great way to show what the system is. Thank you for admitting that. This is what you started looting Poland. Because there's nothing left to rob anymore, you need to raise your taxes. You need to rob those who have this value: Polish capital, Polish GDP are building. [[You're the ones who sold Poland.]] Well, even what you're saying now shows that you have no arguments. Today these comments from the hall show only contempt for those who belong to the Polish middle class. Today, Polish Load is slowly transforming into something that used to be called PolnischeWirtschaft. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will vote against this because I do not want Poland to be called again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u79	Members have asked questions. As a first question, you are asking Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to some of the opposition Members, it seems that they cannot believe that Law and Justice has been changing the tax-free amount from PLN 3091 to PLN 30,000 for more than 10 years. PLN for total taxable persons deducting tax on a tax scale. [[Applause]] Earlier in 2017, the government of PiS fulfilled its promise to raise this amount to PLN 6600 and in the following year to PLN 8,000. zł. In this amount, the tax-free amount has been in force since 2018, thus fixing its maximum amount. The project provides for an increase of the tax-free amount for all taxpayers to 30,000. by increasing the tax reduction amount to PLN 5100. This solution (the Bell) is equal to the level achieved in France and Germany. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u81	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u82	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Simple, clear and understandable - that should be the tax system. Instead of simple solutions, you have created such a brick, over 500 pages. Now this brick will fall on hundreds of thousands of Polish entrepreneurs and just hurt them. You're saying it's supposed to be some kind of tax fair play, but I'm going to prove to you that this is a brutal foul on the most entrepreneurial people. A few examples. The billing carpenter pays PLN 495 today and will pay PLN 951, over PLN 450 a month more. A hairdresser who's got four grand in revenue. zł, today pays a lump sum of 393 zł, and pays 453 zł, i.e. 15% More. The construction engineer, which has the income of 6,000. zł, pays 563 zł today and pays 680 zł, which is 21% More. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The truth is, you just want to reach into the pocket of the most entrepreneurial people and finance promises you don't have any money for. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's a lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u83	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Polish Ład was supposed to be a brilliant programme of socio-economic development of Poland, and as entrepreneurs say, it is a nail to their coffin. Is that what this was about? I would like to ask the Minister what gave rise to the fact that the tax card is being abolished as one of the easiest tax solutions for employers who are cosmetic companies, hairdressers, craftsmen, and lately also for those involved in medical activities. Such activities, e.g. about the private rental of apartments, they make people move to the gray area. Is burdening people and pushing them into the grey zone the purpose of the Polish Deal?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u85	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We certainly have to agree that Polish Load hits entrepreneurs, hits the middle class. But there is another extremely important group, in which Poland's Load will hit extremely painfully. This group is Polish local governments. Dramatic cuts, when it comes to the proceeds of subsidies, will make it necessary to save money. This will make it very poor to meet social needs at this level. The question today to the government, to the Minister: Why do you not want to square the losses of local governments when it comes to subsidies? These proposals you've put forward, that's 1/3 of what local governments will lose in the next decade. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u87	Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that you want to visit local governments, as Mr Paszyk said here, is obvious. The fact that you want to come to the entrepreneurs, too. A little bit disappears in all of this, the fact that these entrepreneurs, whom you undoubtedly hate with genuine hatred, are people who make all those who work for jobs, also you, have jobs in general. All those people who work at work have jobs. Why do you allow yourself to do this? Why are you building a system that's based on a crisis shield? Because most people, your constituents, don't know this system. Only people who know this system are people who run their own business. By the 10th day of each month, they must transfer the ZUS contribution themselves, and by the 20th day of each month they must transfer the income tax themselves. I propose an experiment. Let's just say that we introduce a law that says that every man who works anywhere gets his gross amount in his hand and then transfers his own ZUS contribution, he transfers his own income tax. There wouldn't be a PiS in the Seym within two months. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u89	Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u90	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We will not support this law for one more reason either. You say that Polish Load is beneficial for pensioners. What about those who are disabled or are taking care of such persons? These seniors have benefited from medication relief so far, and now they won't be able to count it off. Polish pensioners are in debt for over PLN 7 billion. The reason for this disgrace is medical expenses. Now you are taking away their return, the weakest of them who should benefit most from this reform. The Ministry of Finance claims that rehabilitation relief, including medication, will not disappear because it is deducted from income. Are you mocking or asking directions? Why would anyone need a relief that he can't apply? Think about it. My question is, what are you gonna do about it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u91	Mrs Iwona Michalek, near the Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u92	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! So far, all taxpayers, whether employed for employment contracts or entrepreneurs or pensioners, have been able to deduct an amount of 7,75% in their annual tax return. their income from the 90% health contribution. According to the draft submitted, the slogan promoting this historic tax increase, i.e. pension without tax, is only really true in a small part, because pension will not be tax-free, only with the tax 9% , instead of 17% But there's inflation. In fact, inflation is going to eat what's going to be less at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen! Is it true that pensioners will pay a 90% health premium and those who have more than 2.5 thousands. PLN per month, they will pay more than 17% ? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, since January 2020 pensioners will pay 26% tax. Is that true? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u93	Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to print this bill to show you its size, but I thought it was a bit of a waste of paper. I'll give you a few facts. The law is included together with the justification on nearly 700 pages. The bill was printed on September 8th, quite recently. At that time, September 14th, there was an autocorrection, because the authors realized that something had not been worked out in it. We've learned that the bill will be at this Sejm meeting two days ago. We had two days to draw up this bill. Two days when we worked from morning to evening at the Sejm meeting. We could have taken care of her at night, of course, but I think the analysis wouldn't have been so accurate, and we probably wouldn't have made it anyway. The PiS Member said he didn't have enough time to refer to the bill. Mr President, you did not have enough time to count the pages of this bill, let alone refer to everything in it. Minister! Thank you for being here. It is a pity that there is no finance minister, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and the rest of the government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The rest of you are in committee.]] This shows how insignificant and underdeveloped this law is. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u95	Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. [[What about me, Marshal?]] Just clubs and wheels, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Not long ago, the report of the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers was published, which clearly shows what Poles have been talking about and discussing for years, as Poles have pointed out, who do not agree to foreign corporations making huge profits in our country without paying taxes or paying them to a small extent. This is contrary to the principle of tax fairness and solidarity. This is done at the expense of other taxpayers, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises. I therefore have a question: What solutions in this law will contribute to the effective collection of due taxes on large corporations? I also have my attention to the opposition. Today, when I listen to the speeches, I often feel like I'm going back to the time when we were working on the 500+ bill. Then you also tore your robes and said that 500+ will only be in 2016 (the bell) and in 2017 there will be no more. [[Time's up.]] You've been criticizing it, and to this day, it's 500+. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u97	Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition. [[Mr. Marshal, may I make a formal conclusion?]] Now? That's after the questions. You're welcome, Mr. Member. [[But can you explain to us why Mr Galla cannot ask a question?]] Yes, I can explain. There's a question parole. 44 questions, Law and Justice - 21, Civil Coalition - 12, Left - 4, Coalition Poland - 2 and wheels by 1. [[Voice from the room: But there is still a German minority.]] But this is an unassociated Member, there is no... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] [[You regulate... the Member is an envoy.]] But there's an appointment for the Sejm Bureau. Don't bother. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to quote a passage from the statement of reasons: the pandemic crisis translates not only into a reduction in budgetary revenues but also into an increase in expenditure, including debt and social benefits. And further: For this reason, the State is forced to look for new solutions to support growth and to stabilise overstretched budgetary revenues. So, do you leave it in the pockets of Poles or do you reach deeper into them? [[Applause]] 'Cause it looks like you're reaching deeper into them, and that's the reason for that. That's not enough, this increase in burdens will translate into an increase in prices. This is another inflationary boost, and even the NBP President sees it, who points out that your fiscal policy is leading to an increase in prices and that a significant part of this price increase, inflation (the bell) is your merit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u99	Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When the government presented Poland's Load for the first time, it ensured that tax changes would be saved for the financing of public health protection. It sounded beautiful, but it came out as usual. In the course of the government work on the project, you decided to reduce the health contribution for entrepreneurs while keeping it at the assumed level for the workers. The price for this bow of Prime Minister Morawiecki towards business, a bow which is more like bending the neck under pressure of the business lobby, is very high. This is PLN 5 billion a year less in the National Health Fund. You have not completed this lack from any other source. You've lost 5 billion zlotys. This price will not be paid by Prime Minister Morawiecki. It will be paid by nurses, paramedics and, above all, by patients. This is the price paid for the health and life of Poles. Do you really think that the Polish health system does not need this additional 5 billion a year? Or did you just think that the poll posts are more important than health and life, and you're still going to (the bell) implement the strategy: who dies is going to die? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u101	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Why aren't you telling the truth? Why are you hitting entrepreneurs like that? Why are you cheating pensioners, not telling the truth? Why are you hitting local governments? Because you're addicting them to the government. Examples. You say you're abolishing pension and pension taxes. How do you endure? You don't even cut it by half. 9% Everyone's gonna pay. There's 350,000. pensioners who have a pension below the lowest pension. The number of pensioners and pensioners has tripled in the period when you rule. Three times, 350,000. At a galloping rate, it's growing. How much are they gonna benefit? After 10 zlotys, they'll benefit. There's not enough power surges, there's not enough gas surges. And you say that you are a boon. The real plan to abolish the pension tax (the bell) is buried here, with your marshal. Dig up this project and show me... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u103	Mr Rafał Bochenek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u104	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I may refer for a moment to the statements of our previous speakers, to the PSL Member, who criticized here the tax changes regarding pensioners and, in fact, the additional few hundred zlotys that retirees will receive. Let me remind you what it was like during the Platform and the PSL. You gave 5 zlotys of valorization. And it was a Versailles, okay? [[Because there was no inflation, man, learn.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is what it looked like. Thank you very much from this place to the Government of Law and Justice for implementing today - this is a historic moment - raising the tax-free amount to the level of 30,000. PLN, as well as the first tax threshold up to 120 thousand. zł... [[How much is it gonna take? 10 zlotys.]] ...which actually means a real tax reduction for the least earner who doesn't pay income tax at all, or a 50% reduction in income taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, and here I will address the opposition: Not LGBT, not gender, not drawing Muslim immigrants up European order, but raising the level of material life of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And taxes.]] [[Voice from the room: Vaseline, Vaseline.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u105	Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The absent Prime Minister! I would like to ask you, did you tell those pensioners who are already enjoying this amount free, who will treat them? [[Applause]] You have a white town outside your office. There's a lot of protests in the health care department. Do you realize that by giving money for electoral gifts - because this is an electoral program, let's just speak openly - you neglect basic social services? Who's gonna treat these retirees? You have a mouthful of slogans about family and children. Where are these families gonna live? In those 70-metre huts you're offering them? And these children - who is to teach them? Who is to educate them if the teacher, when he comes to work, receives a minimum wage? An educated man. Ask yourselves if you can afford such election gifts. Because there's nothing about development here. You don't even have a minister for development, so how serious do you take Poles? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u107	Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u108	Dear Marshal, Dear Dear Dear Prime Minister, Honourable ladies and gentlemen, In my speech, in line with the call made by the PiS Members, first of all, I will not criticize. Second of all, I'm not gonna rip my clothes off. Thirdly, dear Members of the PiS, there will only be thanks. Just thanks for the Polish Load. [[Voice from the room: Beautiful.]] I would like to thank the Government Centre for Legislation from this place on behalf of Poles and Poles. The government's Legislature Center didn't say anything, told the Poles everything. The Government Legislation Center is beautifully and thank you very much. For the first time, the government refused to give an opinion on the matter. She said no because she's honest. Without saying anything, she told the Poles everything. Ladies and gentlemen, respect (The bell) Government Legislation Center! [[Applause]] [[It's a thrilling performance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u109	Mr Dariusz Stefaniuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u110	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are many different arguments in this Chamber, but I have the impression that, like the last speech, they have little to do with the debate that is taking place today. There's one thing I want to say. Mr Zalewski said earlier that the social minimum in Poland is higher than at the beginning of our governments. I want to say that this is not true - 7.2 to the present 5.2 shows that almost 1/3 as far as the social minimum is concerned, it is lower. With regard to the issues concerning local governments raised in your statements, it is also completely incorrect. I think you're kind of acting on the principle of saying 100 times not true, that's true. Please come to the tax side. gov.pl, please check how much the municipalities earn. In my district, in Bialski, Biała Podlaska, Terespol, Międzyrzec - all these municipalities have several dozens of percent higher incomes in the periods prior to and after the introduction of the Polish Ład (Dzwonek) and after its introduction. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska... And that's what you can see. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u111	... The Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Mr. Vice Minister! There's no prime minister, there's no finance minister, and this project is less than zero. Less than zero for pensioners, for those you promise you'll help them so much. Because they will pay a high health premium, but the rest will eat expensive and high inflation. [[Applause]] My predecessors talked about an increase in electricity prices, petrol prices and other services. But it's like you haven't seen it. Where are the three voices that will save you from this embarrassment? Because all the opposition, all the opposition said it was a total bullshit. And if you don't understand that and defend it less than zero then sing yourself a song. [[Voice from the room: What?]] 'Cause you're finally gonna know that there's another bullshit set up. Minister! Again with the bullshit? He's not doing anything. [[Applause]] Six years wasted. Your Prime Minister said one thing. Your Prime Minister once said that the law-making process should be predictable and run in the longer term so that the rules can be implemented. What happened to the Prime Minister? Then what happened to the Prime Minister? Is his memory out of his mind? His memory's gone crazy that he used to say otherwise, and when he got in the government, he tells stories? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left. Ladies and gentlemen, the project is less than zero... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u113	High Izbo! We have a sick tax system in Poland, in which a businessman pays lower rates than a cleaning lady who cleans it. In the spring, you announced a reform that would change that. One that will introduce really progressive taxes. We are ready to support this reform. But today you brought here some funny ogre that just doesn't change anything in essentials, and still a businessman will pay lower rates than a cleaning lady who cleans it up. You leave a line, you add more privileges to rich businessmen and capital in profit making and for this capitulation before business, they actually pay public finances. Before you said you couldn't do anything because Gowin won't let you. Now there are no Muds, but progressive taxes as they were, there isn't. Mr. Sarnowski told us honestly why. I quote: 'Cause big business needs low taxation, and that's what we're giving it in this project. Congratulations. Ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting amendments that will put this bill back on its feet. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mrs Anna Paluch... First of all, the guarantee that local governments won't lose any gold... ... Law and Justice. ...and secondly, the real taxation of millionaires. No sacred cows. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mr. President, Mr. President. The watch. If you want support, accept the amendments. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If fiery criticism falls both from the law and from the left, it means that the solution is close to the golden center. But there's another thing I want to say. So here we are, my dear opposition, you jerk, yell, yank, judge of honor and faith, and realize one thing: for the first time in 12 years someone raises the tax limit when it comes to the first tax threshold. You were six years old. You didn't do it. [[They were eight years old.]] Not eight, not eight. Taxes entered in 2009, but contrary to appearances it was the activity of our government, the 2007 tax law, from the time of the dead. Prime Minister Zyta Gilowska, who entered into force with a 2-year delay. And for 6 years, from 2009 to 2015, you did not lift a small finger. And who raises taxes? Civic Platform - VAT up to 23% and all taxes that could have been. [[And now how much VAT is there?]] Who lowers taxes? Law and Justice, as it is now, increasing the second tax threshold (the Bell) to 120 thousand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u115	Mrs Maria Janyska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u116	Minister, please give my regards to the Minister of Finance from Wielkopolska, from the Wielkopolska entrepreneurs associated with the Council of thirty at the Marshal of the voivodship from the Chambers of Commerce of the whole Wielkopolska. Greetings, of course, in quotes. They adopted a position in which they express a great deal of concern about the regulations of the Polish Government, which in their opinion focuses attention on distribution and distribution of income, while completely ignores the sphere of development of production, which is crucial for achieving these revenues. They note the shortcomings, the issues that are not raised at all, such as negative natural growth, the need to protect the climate, the need for energy transformation, rising inflation, the reluctance of entrepreneurs to invest, which results from the fact that a legislative bandit is being cultivated in the Seym and that they never know what awaits them the next day. There are quite a few of these shortcomings mentioned here, which is why I will hand it over to the Minister in order to be useful at work (The Bell), and I will also pass this on to Mr Krzysztof Czarnecki from Wielkopolska. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u117	Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u118	Mr Zandberg, together with Mrs Leszczyna's literary formula, demanded more progress. Okay, all businessmen officially demand more progress, but you say too small, Mrs. Leszczyna says she shouldn't be here at all. However, as we say in turn that there are tax cuts, the state says: yes, there are reductions, because local governments are losing it, although they are not losing it, while entrepreneurs have this element of progression, but to the chosen extent. In general, however, this change is extremely pro-developmental and pro-investmental and I pay particular attention to this. Here we are going, as far as local governments are concerned, towards support that the local government could never count on before - there was no compensation for local governments when they had less tax revenue - and at the same time we are giving the opportunity to use a new source in the form of investment subsidies. And that's the pro-development element of this system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the same time, please see... Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. ...governments - there were tax cuts, local governments had more influence, and now it's going... [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u119	Mr President, you have exceeded your time. You're welcome. The Member at the end, of course, is corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, a little truth. A little truth, because I would like to remind the High House of the vote of 22 March 2018. You remember that vote. Retirement tax-free - 237 Members and Members of the PiS as one husband rejected this project. This is the first case. Three and a half years ago, retirement could have been tax-free. How's it going today? It's expensive today. For the first time in 4 years, extreme poverty is growing in the 65+ to 4.4% group. Ladies and gentlemen! We would also like to talk about the cost. Crazy expensive drains wallets and senior savings. What are they forced to do? They are forced to use private medical services that have increased by how much? About 5.9% August to August. Ladies and gentlemen! Here's another thing. What do you serve anytime soon? You're serving a 7.4% increase in gas prices. (BELL RINGING) From October 1st. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u121	Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will admit that by listening to the words of the Members who spoke in the discussion, I was amazed to hear the person who, on the one hand, signed the flash under very good solutions, and today, this project is criticizing. In order to accurately evaluate this project, it is worth to see what the effect will be on citizens. This effect is clear and clear: over 16 billion PLN stays in the pocket of Poles and Poles. It shows that this project is very good. Increase of the tax-free amount - from 3 000. PLN from 2015 we increase it to 30 thousand. zł currently in this act. And what was it like in the days of the Civic Platform? For 8 years you have increased this amount by PLN 2, from PLN 3089 to PLN 3091. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today we increase it after 6 years to 30,000. zł. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u123	Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy? Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u124	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! After listening to Mr Szczerba's statement, he may first be digressive. It is enough to look at the face of this man, the face of Mr Ionski or Mr Sterczewski. This is one big, walking untruth, incompetence. As a matter of fact. [[Here's your name.]] With regard to Prime Minister Gowin's statement, it is sad to say that the man who claimed to be the creator of the Polish Łódź - his officials also participated in this - today he says that it is a socialist product. You really have to be Jaroslaw Gowin to say something like that, that's how you criticize it. [[Applause]] Very rude, Prime Minister, not this way. You can leave the government, you can leave any position, but you have to leave with class. This is memento. - let it be a memento for the future. [[Applause]] And a simple question, Minister. Tell us if we will actually benefit from this, on the Polish Lad (The Bell), or if the retirees will benefit, or whether the money will stay in their pockets. Thank you kindly. [[We Members, yes. You and your families? Yes.]] We as Poles, but it's too bad you don't understand. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u125	Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! A lot of bad things can be said about this document, but I will focus on three fundamental aspects. The proposed changes are social, anti-development and anti-democratic. Asocial, because one citizen is given something, but others are draining their pockets. Anti-development, because these almost 800 s. focus primarily on how to rip down entrepreneurs and not on solutions good for them. Anti-democratic, because they devastate the state system, hitting the local governments hard, taking 12 billion zlotys in 2022 and about 170 billion zlotys in 10 years. Let me remind everyone that the loss of income may threaten the bankruptcy of some local governments, and thus the closure of crèches, libraries, cultural houses, the resignation of many investments, the dismissal of employees. Three times A. Antisocial, anti-developmental and anti-democratic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u127	Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Member of the Civic Platform said that we are raising taxes, so before people know it, you will make an election. I can assure you that there will be elections, but only when people realize it. That's right. Why do I say that? E.g. A pensioner who has $2.5,000. PLN pension, will gain PLN 2,250 a year, almost PLN 200 a month. [[Applause]] An employee who has $4,000. PLN of salary, will gain PLN 2 900 per year, or more than PLN 240. [[Applause]] Yeah, we're waiting because right now, people are really confused by your lies, your deceptions, your manipulations, your saying that we're raising taxes. If there are 16 billion zlotys left in taxpayers' pockets, [[Applause]] We're really gonna wait until people find out, and then there's gonna be an election. It's just a pity... Think about it, it's not too late for you to reject this law at first reading... [[You'll read the justification.]] ...because it will be regrettable in the next term if there are no Members of the Civic Platform, because it is interesting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u129	Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. [[Mr Marshal, as corrected, the Member did not understand my statement.]] But you weren't mentioned. [[He said what I said, and he didn't understand. I should correct it.]] But he didn't mention your name. [[Voice from the room: There was no name.]] [[Mr. Marshal.]] Please, Mrs Jachira. [[The best thing you can do is shut our mouths and stay here alone. It'll be the most convenient thing for you. And then lie from that podium as much as you can.]] [[Voice from the room: Good postulate. Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Kaczyński! Did you at least read these 686 pages of tax changes? I know Mr. Kaczyński isn't here right now, but could someone please wake him up and tell him? This is a really important thing. As a pensioner, he will pay a full health contribution of 8%. More. You're the richest party. The people around your CEO are in business. If they pay more taxes, will it encourage them to start businesses or move to the gray zone? Are they gonna hire employees or are they gonna get fired? Will they leave their businesses in the country or will they carry them abroad like Russian oligarchs? But if they stay, the higher tax burden will be passed on to your constituents and they will pay more for services or goods. I don't know if that's gonna appeal to the voters. Not to mention inflation, because it's your trademark. The fact that the health contribution isn't gonna go to the strikers, it's gonna go to the general budget, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. So what? Someone hand you over to the Prime Minister? Pass it on? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] I'll take it myself just in case. When he gets here. Excuse me, sir. I'll take it to the Prime Minister. Well, maybe he'll read it. [[Voice from the room: Maybe so.]] [[What's the circus for?]] [[Voice from the room: Say something from yourself!]] [[Voice from the room: Maybe you'd like to say something.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u131	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u132	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This hysteria, these shouts that we hear from the opposition during the process of proceeding the laws of the Polish Government in the plenary room or in committee meetings, testify that the opposition knows and is aware that Poland's Load will have disastrous consequences for the opposition. That's why it's behavior. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! The project concerns changes in personal income tax and consists in an increase of the tax-free amount to 30 000. PLN and increase the revenue threshold to 120 thousand. zł, after which 32% of the tax rate applies. It will apply to millions of Poles, as was the case with their citizens' platform project, which raises the retirement age to 67% or, as did entrepreneurs, increase VAT to 23%. [[Up to 67%, sir!]] I want to ask you, Minister, about specific numbers. How many Poles will benefit from the solutions of the legal act? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: You have made a mistake, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u133	Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The lie is that you raise the tax-free amount to 30,000. zł. You're eliminating the tax-free amount to zero. [[Applause]] Not even $3,000. it won't be, because everything stays, every dollar will be taxed 9% That's all that was called today's health contribution. It's a lie that you lower taxes. You're picking them up. Who's gonna make $4,000? zł per month, it will be 26% Not 17%. Who makes more than 10,000. zł, it will have a tax of 41% Not 32%, so far. You're saying that everyone's going to benefit 90%, because that's not true. [[Applause]] Almost everyone's gonna lose it. Self-government isn't $3,000. units. It is 38 million Poles and Poles, for which for 12 billion PLN each year the lower tax revenue will be the worse quality of public services. They will lose entrepreneurs, but President Kaczyński has advice for them. He tells them that if they can't do it under these conditions, they should do something else. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u135	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! 686 pages and 1 minute. And I wanted to ask you about investment agreements, which are supposed to be a driving force and a great deal of innovation, which the Minister was just convincing us about. Finally, the government acknowledged that tax changes are the main barrier to the development of corporate investment. We've talked about this many times, no one wanted to do it... no one wanted to confirm it. But these investment agreements are not attractive at all. Why? The initial fee is not subject to... Several tens of thousands non-refundable, main fee and numerous restrictions, constantly raised thresholds, e.g. value of investments, and other things. Because we read in the explanatory memorandum: the purpose of these limitations is to reduce the number of applications submitted. I thought it was gonna be an investment boom, and it's just eight and a half. [[♪ The bell ♪]] agreements per year. Forget innovation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u137	Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u138	Your lips are full of clichés about justice. Justice is in your name, justice is changed by all cases. However, it is vain to seek tax justice in the so-called. Polish Łady, because tax justice is one in which, first, people with the same income pay the same taxes, and secondly, tax is just if it is equally vulnerable to everyone, regardless of what income they earn. So the higher the income, the higher the taxes are paid, but adjusted to the ability to pay. Because he can't be tall enough to destroy life and functioning. You guys are crossing all unfair boundaries here. Don't you really fear that Poles, that entrepreneurs will start fleeing with their activities and paying taxes outside Poland? Why are you throwing away the negative opinions of the Enterprise Council, why did you throw away the opinion of the local government? After all, entrepreneurs, and local government officials (the bell) clearly tell you: not for the Polish government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u139	Mr Adrian Zandberg, as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u140	Mr Tomaszewski, from Law and Justice, said that we want much higher progress. Mr President, we want any progress. What you've presented isn't progression. You maintain a progressive system, you maintain a system that is fundamentally unfair. That's what needs to be changed. If you finally find even a little courage and want to do so, we are ready to support such solutions, but cowardice, Minister Sarnowski, and groveling before the big business - no. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[...said my name.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u141	Mr Michał Szczerba, as corrected. [[But, Mr Marshal, Mr Tomaszewski referred to Mr Zandberg and me. Can I correct it?]] But he didn't mention your name. [[He mentioned my name, please check the transcript, Mr Tomaszewski.]] We'll check the transcript, and if it turns out to be, we'll give you the floor. [[Well, Mr. Marshal, I think everyone heard.]] Good. [[But we heard it.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u142	Me first, right? Yes. Are you an MP? No, Mr. Member. Mr. Marshal! Here, one of the Members of the Law and Justice tried to make a substantive comment on my speech. I would like to quote the September 15 GUS data specifically for this Member, and especially for his Kalisz voters. This is the price index of consumer goods and services, August to August. For Kalisz voters raise: petrol - 29.2%, poultry meat - 24.5% , vegetables - 7.9% , electricity - 9,5% , medical services - 5.9% , oils and fats - 4,7% , bread - 6.6%, services - 6.6%. I would still like to clarify: exactly 22 March 2018 this Member from Kalisz (The Bell) voted against a tax-free pension. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u143	Member, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u144	Thank you, Marshal. Mr Tomaszewski said that... On behalf of the Civic Coalition, I said we were in favour of tax progression, but not now. First of all, Mr President, I said that in order to talk about tax progression, we need to have a consultation that will tell you what the effect will be on the economic development that you are supposed to care about, and on inflation, which is expensive for the poorest, because what you are doing is that a marriage that earns the national average and has one child and 500+ will gain 880 PLN per year on your shift, but note: with 5% inflation, it loses 4,000. zł. These are the calculations of economists, experts and everyone who knows at least a little bit about the tax system. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u145	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now please, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Jan Sarnowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u146	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to express a very big surprise, because it would seem that we are talking about two different projects. How can we talk about an increase in taxation when net revenue in the public finance sector is reduced by PLN 16.5 billion? There was a question of how many taxpayers would benefit from this. I would like to inform you: 18 million taxpayers will pay lower taxes and contributions as a result of these changes. So this is already a net result, taking into account the changes in the deductibility of the health contribution. Indeed, the most common pension in Poland is 2500 PLN and for such a pensioner it is 2250 PLN net more in the portfolio per year. There have been a lot of questions about pensioners, so I would like to reiterate the figures so that we can all remember them and also inform them in a just honest way. Ladies and gentlemen! 90% Retirement benefits from tax changes. That's over eight million people, exactly eight hundred thousand. persons. Retired people with an amount of about PLN 11 000 will not lose on these changes. Up to PLN 200 a month will be paid after these changes less than 6% Pensioners and more than PLN 200 will pay 0.3% a month pensioners. Three promiles of pensioners will pay more than 200 zlotys a month... [[Do you count inflation?]] ...with - attention, attention - pension income of over PLN 13 620. [[What about inflation?]] So that, ladies and gentlemen, this is a breakthrough, very, very beneficial for pensioners. This change is also very beneficial for workers. 67% employees, people employed in Poland will benefit from changes. This is 8.2 million people. These are all employees in Poland who earn PLN 12 790 a month gross. It's just mass, it's huge, it's a huge number. For 20% employees - unchanged. Ladies and gentlemen, more than PLN 200 per month - and here we are talking about tax, and about the contribution - will only pay 2.6% more. employees, i.e. less than 3%. For all employees in Poland it is a huge, huge change on the plus side, for a small number it is virtually unnoticeable, and for a total statistical error and a fraction it can be more than 200 PLN. It will pay less than 3% people - 2.6%. That's what statistics look like. Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of corporate taxation, as I mentioned, 40% entities active in Poland will benefit from these changes automatically as a result of a reduction in the tax and contribution wedge. [[Why did everyone express negative opinions?]] Other companies can benefit from solutions, but what solutions? Ladies and gentlemen, the new rules include: R &amp; D and IP Box, Robot relief, prototypes, innovative employee, expansion, restructuring, first entry to the stock market, investor relief, which will invest in a newly listed company, VAT grouping. These are all changes that did not arise in the basement of the Ministry of Finance, these are changes that entrepreneurs asked us to do, which were created at the request of the Polish Business Council, the Business Council, companies, the SME spokesperson, entities that want to enter the stock exchange. That's it. the results of our meetings with business, the results of our efforts to implement these requests as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Canada - these are only a few countries that implement similar solutions where they either already exist or are being prepared to implement next year in order to add fuel to companies that want to grow, companies that want to invest, increase productivity and increase the scale of their business. There was a question about the complexity of the tax system. That's a question that always comes up when we talk to entrepreneurs. And we always ask each other questions. First question: Do we want the tax system to be simple? All of you will say yes. Affirmative, so am I. Second question: Do we want the tax system to... [[A relief for the middle class.]] ...to reflect the individual situation of the entrepreneur, whether we want him to be adapted to the way the entrepreneur conducts his business... [[There's something else to be done about it.]] Do we want him to support investment so he can support innovation so he can support expansion into other markets? [[We do, and you do everything backwards.]] Madam, please don't disturb me. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Absolutely, we all want that, and that's why we're working in both directions. Ladies and gentlemen! The year 2020 and 2021 are tax years - now there is a change within the Polish Government - in which we create at every stage of the company's operation the opportunity to benefit from a simplified method of settlement. Since January this year practically any micro-entrepreneur may benefit from a lump sum settlement from registered revenues. We have eliminated more than 50 exemptions and raised the limit on the use of a lump sum up to eight times, to EUR 2 million of annual income. This means that any micro-entrepreneur who wants to settle himself in a simplified manner can do so without any restrictions. Secondly, the changes that we are making in the field of Estonian CIT from January next year will make it possible for each business, including the larger one, which has a transparent, simple organisational structure, to choose the simplest way of settling the non-payment of taxes on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis, and the tax is calculated in a very simple way: payment times the rate only and only when the profit is paid from the company. Ladies and gentlemen! There are questions about whether the reliefs, the solutions we propose, will be used by entrepreneurs. Examples of R &amp; D relief were set up. Ladies and gentlemen, entrepreneurs will be familiar with these regulations, and from year to year they are increasingly benefiting from research and development relief. In the first year 500 entrepreneurs also benefited, now, after 3 years, there are as many as five times more. The amount of deduction increased as much as tenfold over the five years, from PLN 200 million to PLN 2.5 billion. These expenses would not have been incurred as investment expenditure if no such relief had occurred. As a result, additional funds in the company's budgets could be transferred, transferred to investments, to increase the scale of business carried out by the companies. Ladies and gentlemen! Asking for a health contribution. Poland is a European phenomenon. A modern tax system is a system where the difference between people doing the same work on the basis of different types of contracts is as small as possible. And it is this law that is probably the first in very, very many years, which causes a huge step forward in equalizing this difference, and let us remember that we are talking not only about statistics and Excel, but also about very real problems. Let's see, for example. for fixed-term contracts. In Poland 14% persons employed are employed on the basis of future contracts. This represents as much as half, 50%, more than the European average, that is three times more than in other countries of our region, in the Czech Republic, Slovakia or Hungary. It is worse only in Spain and Portugal, but these are tourist countries, in which the seasonality of some jobs actually dictates that people are employed for fixed-term contracts. Changes in the tax wedge, changes in the amount of the health contribution and above all in the amount of the free amount and the second tax threshold are a huge step towards ensuring that there are no such differences and that there is no such situation. Remember: a person earning 100,000. PLN per year health contributions pay... How much is it? In the case of an employee 7,8 thousand. zł, in the case of an entrepreneur of 4.5 thousand and health care services in both cases are exactly the same. Health contribution in relation to income: up to 100,000 - 8% Up to 500,000. zł - 4% up to PLN 1 million - 2%. These are interest rates for entrepreneurs. The employee is always 9%. This is a fair, modern tax system? No. But it will be better, definitely better as a result of the changes we are making. I would also like to reassure you. The project of the Polish Government does not foresee the liquidation of the tax card. The tax card will continue to function for 100,000. those who now account for themselves in the most simplified way, and no new person will be able to enter this clearing system from January next year. This is a tax treatment which does not in any way relate either to the income or to the income of the person who benefits from this arrangement. In this way, it does not refer to its actual payment capacity either. So that this is a way of taxation that is worth walking away from, but from which it is necessary to move away in an evolutionary way, with the rights acquired on the part of those who benefit from this solution. As regards local authorities, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again that not further than yesterday, the High Chamber was discussing changes concerning the financing of local government units with a positive budgetary effect for them, compensating for the loss that could result from the provisions of the Polish Government. The provisions of the Polish Government cause a decrease between PLN 11 and 12 billion in the budgets of local government units, while the changes already under discussion by the High Chamber will lead to the average revenue of local government units growing by around 4,3% year by year. This is a new promotional investment subsidy and, on the other hand, a departure from the close link between the income of local government units and the state of the entities, and the income tax paid by these entities in a specific year. It's about putting it together for three years. It cannot also be that local government units are hostage to the current situation of entities operating in their territory. When a large enterprise operating in a given municipality makes significant investment expenditure, this immediately affects the finances of local government units. He doesn't have to be in any financial trouble. All you have to do is make a completely rational, necessary and constructive business decision. The changes that we are proposing will address this problem and will make shaping the budgets of local government units much simpler and safer. Finally, I would like to thank you very much for your question about the investment agreement. This is a solution dedicated to both Polish and foreign investors, who would like to know all the tax consequences of their investment in Poland. This is one decision that combines five tools that already function: binding price agreement, individual interpretation, binding joint information, binding excise information and a protective opinion. Starting a large business project, you will not have to ask for five different types of interpretations, while they can be of any kind several, so that in total such documents, such materials may need even a dozen. One investment agreement is enough. Here the limit is only and only the amount of the planned investment, i.e. PLN 100 million. We also want this solution to be more and more accessible. So that this limit will also be reduced in the coming years. In three years' time, it'll be reduced by half to 50 million. We very much want as many entrepreneurs as possible to benefit from this tool, because it is practically a new standard, not only in our region, but also across Europe. This service is already offered by investors and domestic, and foreign Italy, Hungary, Slovakia. I am very pleased that from January next year Poland will also join the catalogue of countries that comprehensively support investors and foreign investors and those whose economic situation is so complicated that they need one such solution, one interpretation. If I haven't answered any questions, we will, of course, answer them in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u147	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u148	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The economy is a connected vessel system. If power increases taxes, people will surely pay more for goods in shops, services, electricity, heat, housing. People will pay more because taxes are part of the price. Today, the PiS government is implementing a program: expensive in every house. For six years, Law and Justice have increased taxes, introduced new tributes. The result of these actions is a crazy expensive one. Moreover, today Poles and Poles' income is consumed by crazy inflation. Today, the Law and Justice increase the health contribution. For some by 8%, for others by almost 5%. This means that from the pockets of Poles the PiS government will draw about 80 billion PLN. That's a lot of money. It will lose everyone, because even this small group of people, who will gain PLN 100 on the increase of the tax-free amount, can pay up to PLN 200 more for monthly purchases. The authorities will take their commission and make it their own. The PiS does not respect hardworking, active and entrepreneurial citizens. He's charging another middle class tribute. It hits people. The place of this bill is in the basket, and I hope it lands there. Finally, I only have one question for PiS politicians. Aren't you ashamed that you're cheating citizens like that?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u149	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on guaranteed housing credit and on the repayment of this credit made in connection with the enlargement of the household (Print No 1541). I will ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology of Mr Piotr Uściński to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u150	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today, on behalf of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, I have the honour to present to the High House a draft law introducing the financial instruments announced in the Polish Order to support families in improving housing conditions. The Government's draft law on guaranteed housing credit submitted in print No. 1541 and on the repayment of this credit in connection with household enlargement is part of the package of regulatory and financial solutions of the scheme. The proposed arrangements set out the terms and conditions under which the mortgage loan covered by the guarantee replacing the borrower's own shares will be granted and repaid. This project combines the objectives of housing policy and family-friendly policy. At the stage of the repayment of the loan, there will be such a dedicated financial support system for borrowers paid in connection with the birth of the child. Such assistance will be provided by the proposed family payments, one-off payments. BGK will pay for the borrower part of the guaranteed loan capital after the birth of the second and every subsequent child. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law states that the guaranteed part of the loan cannot be higher than 100,000. zł and that it can not be more than 20% the value of the property financed. The project provides for the non-ownership of another residential or single-family residence when granting credit. There is an exception to this condition. If there is a family with children who raise these children on a small scale, then we abandon this condition. This will be for families who raise two children. If they have an apartment less than 50 m Of course, there's a condition here. In order to benefit from family payments, i.e. paying off part of the credit by BGK - this is proposed in our law: in the case of the second child 20,000. zł repayment, for the third and every subsequent child 60,000. zł - you have to get rid of this first apartment. The purchase and increase of the meter will certainly be combined with the proposed family payments... We are counting on the demographic effect, not only on solving the housing problem, but also on the impact of this on demography in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Please, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, on behalf of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, for the adoption by the High House of this bill. We are very happy to listen to the voices in the debate and to any questions we may have and to answer them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u151	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Anna Milczanowska on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government's draft law on guaranteed housing credit and on the repayment of this credit made in connection with the enlargement of the household, print No. 1541. The Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, is comprehensively faced with adverse demographic trends, reflecting effective support for families with children. These are the programs of the family of 500+, the good start, the baby+. The current project is part of the Polish Ład, a holistic socio-economic programme that responds to the current needs of Poles caused, among others. the crisis related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Polish Load is more than a reconstruction plan, it is a strategy of civilizational change. One of its elements is the Act of the High Sejm to improve the ability to meet housing needs by eliminating the barriers to the lack of own resources required by the bank's own contribution to the granting of mortgage credit and preventing negative demographic trends related to low levels of childhood, including the need to provide support to larger families also at the stage of payment of housing loans in the event of birth in the family of further children. The final report from the study of conditions for improving the demographic condition of Poland carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy for the development of the demographic strategy 2040 clearly indicates that the first barrier they see is the lack of their own home or inadequate housing conditions. When building a guaranteed housing loan instrument, the bill assumes that solving the lack of own resources when applying for mortgage credit should not increase the risk of excessive relaxation of credit standards and that the mechanisms adopted eliminate the barrier of lack of own contribution required to borrow a mortgage. They should promote the maintenance of high-quality credit portfolios in the banking sector and should not risk stimulating speculative activities and social attitudes resulting in unjustified increases in housing prices. They should not lead to excessive debt opportunities for households. In view of the above, the provisions of the proposed law lay down the terms and conditions for the granting and repayment of a guaranteed residential loan, including the conditions to be met by a mortgage which is a loan without an own contribution, the scope of the objectives for which a guaranteed residential loan may be granted - the purchase of a dwelling or a single-family house, the construction contribution or the financing of the construction costs of a single-family house - the minimum repayment period of a guaranteed residential loan of 15 years, the conditions to be met by the property to be financed, the maximum price limit, including the building contribution per 1 m With a view to further consistent improvement of the living rate of Polish families in response to demographic challenges, the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice will support the draft law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Housing for Law and Justice is an obstacle course. Not only did the President Jarosław Kaczyński admit that the goal that Law and Justice set for themselves was not achieved. Prime Minister Morawiecki also admitted it. He's been in public recently, punching himself in the chest. We're all still hearing that rumbling. And you're right, because there's no success. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk admitted this this morning in his interview at RMF. The Living+ program didn't work out, but it wasn't the only program. You started with a big pump. You predicted that 6,000 would be created by 2018 under the "Accommodation+" programme. apartments. There wasn't one. A further communication appeared in 2018. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, at the Law and Justice Convention, announced that by the end of the year 100,000 would be under construction. apartments. We checked, the reporters checked that the promise wasn't kept. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The fact that you are unable to build also confirms the list of victims involved in the housing process. Who today remembers that Minister Andrzej Adamczyk started the implementation of the program? Who remembers? I can't see. Who remembers that Kazimierz Smolinski, one of the vice ministers, was responsible for these programs? No one remembers. Who remembers that Minister Soboń was responsible for these programs? There's nobody here again. He's dealing with completely different things today. Prime Minister Emilevich? There's no one here either. Minister Kwieciński no longer deals with gas industry. Minister Kornecka? I don't see anyone. Nobody's confessing to her anymore today, but it's been so recent. Today Minister Uściński takes over the baton in this relay of the victims. I wish you would succeed because there is a housing problem in Poland. This bill is a step in the right direction. Why? Because the platform program, living for young people, is 109 thousand. apartments. More than half of them began construction during the Civil Platform's term of office. Until you extinguished this programme, it was also implemented during the term of law and justice. You finally put it out. We said it was a mistake. Today you're actually doing this program again with some other doors, but you've picked a terrible time. The inflation goes crazy, the construction materials go from day to day, for some the increase reaches 100, 200, and sometimes 300%. You didn't take that into account when you were making a demand offer. It's a good thing she showed up, 'cause she completes the program palette. I mean, the Housing Council... Who knows who is at the head of the Housing Council set up by Law and Justice today? I ask Members of the Law and Justice. I can't hear the answer. I'll give you a hint - Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Report to him with interventions regarding the fact that this program is not working. Who today remembers the National Housing Program? No one remembers. Who remembers the National Property Resources? Not many people. We've already summarized the apartment - fatal. It's a good thing there's a new solution. We are declaring work on these proposals in the committee, because we need to see if the situation in the housing market is going to get worse, because this proposal comes in a bad time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u155	Mr Robert Obaz, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u156	The Act on Guaranteed Housing Credit and the repayment of this credit made in connection with the enlargement of the household is another unfavorable proposal from the government. For 6 years the Law and Justice were unable to see the housing crisis in which thousands of Poles and Poles were found. This problem did not exist until the power in the hands of the PiS was sure, and the majority of the Seym was stable. I'm not talking about the non-burning program, which was the apartment+ programme. From the set-up of 100,000 apartments during the program's operation, little more than 1 000 apartments were put into service. When we pointed out that more than 1 million apartments were missing on the market and another 1.5 million were in poor technical condition, we were silenced. The left said openly that millions of young Poles and Poles could not afford to meet this basic needs of life, because not everyone is a son or daughter of politicians from PiS sitting in companies of the State Treasury. [[Applause]] Not everyone has a rich parent and not everyone has an inheritance. The six years of the PiS governments are giving us the continuation of a handicapped housing policy that has effectively contributed to the fact that today young people who enter the labour market have a huge problem to move away from their parents. Not because they don't want to, but because they just can't afford to buy their own apartment. [[Voice from the room: Thanks to you.]] Whether they work in official positions, in large corporations, or, as the Confederation wants, they paint walls or work on tirach. In today's socio-economic situation and with widespread inflation, which PiS does not intend to fight, this is extremely difficult. Medical paramedics, nurses, and teachers - young people who depend on the future of our nation - were deprived of opportunities for their own homes. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that the only answer of the government is once again echoes the words of the Platform politicians: just change your job and take credit. Ladies and gentlemen, housing prices have increased by up to 11% in the second quarter of 2021. The housing availability index is currently the lowest since 2015. The Left has been saying for years: We need a return to social construction, we cannot give the whole of this extremely important problem to millions of Poles and Poles only in the hands of developers. The lack of active involvement of the state in this area has led to the situation that the housing boom and prices are being turned on by those who see only a deposit of capital in their homes, leaving the rest without a chance to buy it and a decent life. It cannot be that the solutions proposed by the government are to feed the banks at the expense of Polish families. Expensive mortgage even without own contribution will not be an alternative, but another pathology on the housing market. The left in the National Reconstruction Plan took care of PLN 5 billion for the construction of 75 thousand. apartments. We speak here, among others. about houses with moderate rent, i.e. the so-called. social housing rentals. This is only a small step, ladies and gentlemen, towards normalization of the situation. The state should appoint a state developer responsible for building cheap apartments for rent. It cannot be that the rent itself consumes half the salary of Polish families. The country that will undertake to build the apartments will not sell them for more than the cost of building them. In this way, you can buy apartments on installments with low interest rates or rent them for real costs. We would also like these solutions to be accompanied by the creation of an agency to supervise the acquisition of land for social construction. Only in this way will new settlements start to be established in Poland. Otherwise, banks and developers will earn again on these fundamental problems for young people and their families. We're not gonna fight the pathology on the housing market, but we're gonna bring in new ones. The proposals of the PiS contained in this bill are nothing more than a return to the old liberal practices of the Civic Platform. The solution that will feed on this one of the most important needs of millions of Poles and Poles. Today, a house or apartment is an impossible dream for young people. And the only thing that can fight for this dream is the Left, which is against the state's support for commercial banks, developers and working for a bowl of rice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u157	Thank you. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is impossible not to refer to this earlier statement, because if someone is opposed to companies that build apartments on the housing market, so-called. developers or banks that finance it are de facto opposed to any housing policy. It's hard to understand that logic at all. High Izbo! I have the pleasure to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL on the draft law on guaranteed housing credit and on the repayment of this loan due to the enlargement of the household. The stated objective of the proposed solutions is to improve the state of housing needs by eliminating the barriers to the lack of own resources required by the bank's own contribution to mortgage lending and to halt negative demographic trends related to low fertility, addressed to the situation of families paying out mortgage credit in relation to meeting their own housing needs. Thus, the bill combines the objectives of housing policy and pro-family policy. At the level of targets, we appreciate the project and give the green light for further work on it. As we know, however, the devil is in the details and it is worth making sure that in such an important bill these details are properly refined. Today, the problem for young people is that when they have a job and pay for housing, they cannot afford to postpone their own contribution to housing, which today is about 20%. Guaranteeing own contribution is therefore a good idea, because at least some young people will not run away from us abroad because they can't afford to put off this 20% own contribution. This element of regulation therefore deserves clear support. Unfortunately, the whole programme can be called the poorer version of the The Poles received subsidies from the state. Remember, it's a platform program and a PSL program. Now the PiS government will only be able to lend more money to young people by the bank and there is not the possibility that MdM gave, that is to say, to finance its own contribution, which reduced the value of the liabilities paid by the family. So the interesting thing about this situation is that PiS, which destroyed MdM, destroyed the best program dedicated to Polish families - let's remember that many families could get a contribution of around 30% - today he implements the same program, only slightly differently named, in a more poor version. This he admitted to the failure of all his housing programs that he had implemented. In fact, he copied the solution introduced, which worked well and which many Poles, young Polish families, allowed to buy an apartment. It's a good thing you learn from your mistakes, you draw the consequences from them. It's just a waste of lost time. It is also fair to say that the own contribution guarantee scheme will also put pressure on property prices. If there is no increase in competition among developers, we will not build any more single-family homes, reducing supply will mean higher prices. As a result of the change of housing owners alone, no apartment will arrive, and only intermediaries will make money. We need to build new apartments, we need to remember that today one of the key tasks of the government is to help and change the rules so that the supply of land increases, because let's not hide that today the price of land is a key problem for entrepreneurs later and shapes the price of the subway apartment. Real estate prices continue to rise in Poland. For 5 years the prices of second-hand apartments have increased by 50% and the apartments built by developers - about 30%. In addition to supporting demand, the government must primarily increase the supply of housing. If we want cheaper housing, there must be more land prepared for housing investments. Today it is the main problem of the housing market. Meanwhile, the government of the PiS blocked thousands of hectares of land in the program "Accommodation+', which turned out to be a de facto farce. From 2015 1.5 thousand were put into service. apartments under the scheme. Accommodation+. Yes, ladies and gentlemen - 1.5 thousands. At the same time, entrepreneurs (the bell), so-called. Bad developers, gave 700,000 to use Polish families. apartments. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation. Thank you, sir. I'm just gonna finish one sentence. Okay, Marshal? Meanwhile, the management bodies set up by the State Treasury by the PiS blocked hundreds of hectares of land for housing investments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of Poles is this political class, which sits from left to right and believes that from transferring from one pocket to another, society will become richer, and it will be easier for us to apply the following regulations. This is not the case and this shows the problem of housing. Let's see: a huge price increase of 38% since 2014, 5.5% per year. What's responsible for that? Of course, the increase in prices due to the increase in prices of building materials. But it is the country that is responsible for this through general inflation, through the effect of monetary policy, the printing of money, by a number of introduced taxes, such as the power charge, the issue fee, such as the waste of PLN 1.3 billion per block in Ostrołęka, as well as the increase in labour costs by constantly increasing the minimum wage, the taxation of labour. Moreover, you have not yet introduced additional requirements and so-called requirements. a fee for a development fund, which experts believe will increase the prices of new apartments by 5%, and this development guarantee fund will be able to spend, as usual, on its election campaign, as was the case with other such funds. Moreover, maintaining interest rates at a very low level is supposed to help, but on the other hand artificially drives the economic boom, with a negative investment climate in a more secure segment, which is the capital intensive housing market. What did you consider to be a prescription? Accommodation+. You have found that with a huge advantage like the possibility of avoiding local land development plans, a lot of properties from the National Property Resources will build cheaper than developers. So? In the case of investments in Katowice it turned out that the rent is PLN 2,400 plus the media at the average rent of PLN 2,200 from other private developers. So you've been building 200 zlotys a month more expensive, and that shows your inefficiency. Ladies and gentlemen! An example of Hungary. You put a dot into a dot of solutions such as in Hungary. Hungary introduced such solutions in 2013 and 2015. What's the effect? The increase in housing prices across Europe - by 91% since 2013, i.e. 13% annually, more than twice as much as in Poland. What will be the rise in housing prices after the introduction of this programme? You can only expect to see what was happening in Hungary. If you want cheaper and better housing, you need to plow all state housing programs, chase down inflationists, keynesists from the NBP and the Monetary Policy Council, lower taxes and simplify building law. That's the recipe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u161	Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u162	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It's gonna be a liberation program, because mortgage loans to buy an apartment are slavery. We want to limit this slavery in Poland. Whose words are those? Who said that? Jarosław Kaczyński said that about the apartment+. So? There are still no cheap apartments for rent and still half of the 30-year-olds live in Poland with their parents. Young Poles, in order to get an apartment, still need to take loans for long years, sometimes for three decades. It's money that will fund not the local market, not consumption, not domestic demand, and inflate banks and developers' pockets. The price of apartments by your solutions will not decrease, but will increase, because these payments of developers are calculated in the price of apartments as a profit. How do we know that? How do we know that? From the times you often refer to, the government of PO-PSL, when there was no idea for a European standard housing policy. [[Oh, no, Mrs MdM.]] Today you do what the Platform does. You serve your backs and run away from your problems. You often use the adjective "neoliberal" in a pejorative context. And what is that, I'm sorry? It's neoliberalism in its pure form, in addition to a public grant. About 2050 will wait for the government to sober up and some systemic proposal regarding housing, whose payment system may be in some form. But it's not today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u163	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Sroka, Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In principle, the agreement supports and supports the government's activities in the field of housing. We support these actions, which were initiated and prepared at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, when Jarosław Gowin led it, and Anna Kornecka was responsible for housing. On this occasion, it is worth paying attention to the problems in the market that have still not been resolved, and the government does not want to deal with them now. Apartment prices haven't been that high in a long time. Demand is far greater than supply and construction materials are expensive at a rapid pace. If you don't take the right steps, soon no one will be able to afford an apartment. There's an even bigger problem. About 40% of Poles today cannot afford a bank loan, especially in the face of expensive apartments. Nor can they afford to raise their own contribution, but they cannot afford to buy an apartment or rent on the commercial market. They're in the so-called. The rent gap. For these people as an Agreement we have created a program with moderate rent, with the possibility of access to property, a program of Social Housing Initiatives, but we have also worked on the reform of spatial planning or the Housing Boning Act for families, which was to form part of the bill that was being processed today. Unfortunately, for some reason, this part was removed from this project. At present, this law only helps to take credit. Today we have a situation related to galloping prices on the housing market. Demand exceeds supply, but recently there have been some additional negative factors, such as rising prices of construction products and materials, above all steel and wood, rising labour costs and low unemployment, i.e. lack of hands to work. There are also financial considerations. The very low rate of bank deposits makes Poles decide to invest in apartments. Acquisition of real estate is not only about meeting your own needs, but it is also an investment market. Today's situation is bad. The government should fight this, but it wants to do so, creating only half-way solutions that banks will benefit mostly. This project in essence was to be combined with an attractive financial housing bon. And this was supposed to give Polish families the opportunity to buy apartments. Unfortunately, that's not gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u165	Thank you. We've got people reporting to ask questions. I'm closing the list of people I've been reporting. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We've had many years of demographic winter. This process that started in the '90s, when there was a violent breakdown of childhood, we had for many years because of massive unemployment. This element has been eliminated by the Government of the United Right, we have virtually no unemployment. There is another very important brake, which is having your own apartment. And it's one that would guarantee a decent life for a family that has or wants to have more than one child. Therefore, I have a question: What solutions in this law are prepared for families, which have e.g. Two children and they want more, and today they own the apartment, but small, and they want bigger ones that would allow them to have more children? And wouldn't it (the bell) lead to the so-called... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u167	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! New proposals are being presented for housing policy, and really the state's policies supporting the purchase of housing. I would like to recall the following facts. Between 2014 and 2018, the total amount spent in the programme is PLN 19 billion for young people. 110,000. Real estate. Then there was a promise. You've completed the program, the apartment for young people, which was the programme of the Civic Platform and PSL, and you've proposed the apartment+. It was supposed to be 100,000. apartments. I'd like to ask the government a question. What are the results of the Living+? How many apartments were really built and how many apartments were really devoted? And wouldn't it require that you (the bell) take stock of that programme by presenting further proposals? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u169	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. No, I'm sorry. For now, Mr Jan Szopiński from the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u170	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We have another project calculated for the result, but for the election result, not created for people. The Prime Minister proposes to grant a housing loan guaranteed by the bank, and that is all the voters will remember. Period. Unfortunately, the minute I have at my disposal prevents me from disarming myself, dealing with this whole project, but I'm just going to try with a few elements. First repayment of the share of the loan... They are to be credited to the part of the loan covered by the guarantee. In a word, when we build a house, it will be covered by a bank guarantee, up to 20% of its value, but only in the first or second year of its repayment. After this period, we are left to ourselves and no guarantees include us. Therefore, the new order gives us a guarantee when we are young, energetic and active, [[The bell, the applause.]] And as we become older and less resourceful, we may lose the source of income, the government and the Prime Minister, dear fellow countrymen, will leave you on ice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u171	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think it is not surprising for anyone who is watching the housing market that the Law and Justice Government's housing policy policy is a major disaster. Despite six years of different programs, buckwheats, increasingly complicated mechanisms, nothing works. I don't think there's another one more showing the inability of the government of the area than housing policy. One thing I'm going to say is that if the world were building housing at the rate that all these government-created Law and Justice agendas are doing, then the world would still be living in stickies. And this bill isn't gonna make it any better either. This bill will give further impetus to the increase in housing prices and will make them even more distant for Poles. And I have a question: Why does the Government of Law and Justice support large groups buying thousands of apartments (The Bell), which makes them more expensive and distance the prospect of their own housing from young people? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u173	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u174	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! You are briefly in parliament, and you do not remember that PiS promised 3 million apartments between 2005 and 2007. [[Applause]] You do not remember that during the 8 years of the rule of the Civic Platform there was a residence for young people. It was real financial support for families, credit additions. A measurable effect? Nearly every year, about 1 billion PLN came to support. And there was a segment of help for families depending on the number of children. Today I'd like to say yes. You're doing business for Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. [[Applause]] See: Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, guaranteeing, issues bonds for which banks pay 0.8%. [[Applause]] Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, And for a clean guarantee (the bell) he'll take 1%. That's not even what a citizen earns, it's a bank. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u175	Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to start by saying hello to all the young people who believe they're going to have cheap apartments to rent, and President Duda, in particular, from the franchise he helped and didn't leave them to himself. I just wanted to say one thing. This is the first time I've crossed my fingers so that this program in no dimension will work, even though I don't believe you will. And I'll tell you why. [[Honest.]] Yeah, honest. You couldn't handle 500+ demographics, and now you've figured out that you can handle it at the worst possible moment in the market, at so fast prices. [[Applause]] bring such a risk on young people who are about to risk their lives, and so... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please don't disturb me. Mr. Marshal, give me a little more time, because for the third time, two people are talking to me when I'm talking. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, ladies and gentlemen, this is the worst possible moment in the market where young people can borrow and take credit today. And one thing I want to draw your attention to. You've calculated the averages per square meter for people who are going to be in debt for life. I just wanted to tell you that it's small. [[♪ The bell ♪]] apartments per meter cost a lot, and only a few large apartments, and this average will only lead people to go into this credit trap and have to buy big apartments, [[Applause]] whose price, the value of the whole apartment is enormous. You want to borrow people for 30 years with apartments for several hundred thousand zlotys on the market, when in history, thanks to you, they are the most expensive apartments. This is your idea. [[Applause]] [[Well done, Member!]] [[Nobody tells me to take credit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u177	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you some specific questions because the justification is vague. Unfortunately, and this is about money, about budget. But first, tell me how many apartments will be made out of this program. What's the respect? Why is this programme only foreseen until 2030? And then what? It should be a longer period. And how much money is booked in this bill... What part of them will be just a guarantee and remain in the budget, so to speak, looking in the long term, and what part will be given to the families who have children? Because this will give us specific information (the bell) about how childhood will improve in connection with this program. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u179	Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A guaranteed housing loan is intended to be a solution for those who do not have the required own contribution, but this solution will not become a panacea for the housing problems of our citizens. This programme promotes small subways, which, in connection with the current housing boom, have been so noticeably reduced in recent years. As a result, instead of getting closer to the EU average in terms of the size of the housing area per person, we are moving further and further away from it. Concerns about the law we are looking at are the fact that the availability of apartments for people in need of a mortgage loan will be minimally reduced, while prices for 1 m
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u181	Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The worst failure of the PiS on housing policy was not the failure of the housing+ programme at all, but the liquidation of the housing programme for young people. By introducing the bill under discussion today, you copy to a large extent the assumptions of a well-functioning and highly popular scheme of living for young people, prepared by the government of PO-PSL. A total of PLN 19 billion was allocated under this programme for 110 000. Real estate. These measures mostly covered their own contribution to the purchase of the apartment. This program was a real support for Poles and Poles. For 6 years since the liquidation of the programme by the PiS government, living for young people, millions of Poles and millions of Poles were deprived of any support in this regard. You've eliminated a well-functioning program, giving nothing in return except the higher cost of buying an apartment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u183	Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask questions. First of all, who will choose those banks that will cooperate with BGK? It's about the 1%. the commission that you wrote down in the Act for BGK, or the sum of those commissions of the bank that will grant the loan, when BGK significantly exceeds the amount that the State will reimburse - the 20,000. or 60,000. - to those who take this loan. The second question concerns the matter of limitation of ownership, because the law does not say who will decide if after 20 or 30 years, because of such periods we are talking about, someone will want to replace or sell this apartment. Who's gonna decide if it can be done? In the bill, state forbid it. And one last thing, too, very important. In the purchased apartment you will not be able to conduct business activity. How can we predict today in the case of a young man (The Bell) that in 30 years he will not conduct a one-man business at home? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u185	Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as housing policy is concerned, the PiS simply couldn't handle it. This is your embarrassment, and you should say it. You talked about cheap apartments, and you made them $1.5,000. When you want to fight something, you actually have the opposite effect. We talked about cheap apartments, and we have the most expensive apartments in history. The fastest price increases especially in small towns. In my snowflakes 2 years ago 1 m Are you guys talking about pro-family politics? Last year, the least children in 17 years were born. Why? Because young Poles don't have apartments. And as they look at the prices of those apartments that (the bell) are right now, it's a disaster. You're not doing anything about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u187	Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u188	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You haven't built 100,000 in the last six years. apartments, and you promised. Over the past six years, your government's housing prices have increased by up to 50%. Over the past six years, the prices of construction materials have increased by up to 100%. And today you remember the young people, the families. You're running pro-family politics. At the worst possible moment, when it comes to housing prices, you get people to lend, giving them a guarantee. Today, when housing prices are soaring, you guys are calling for loans. This is not a programme to meet the needs and expectations of residents, it is a programme to meet the political and banking expectations of BGK. Because the terms you represent are the worst possible. The contribution you are proposing is not adequate to (the bell) housing prices. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u189	Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u190	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think before you make another promise, you should settle for what you promised before. I don't want to ask you about those big ferries, drones, fast railroads, but I just want to ask you about your flagship project, living plus. I will quote the Prime Minister, who said this: In 2019 - this is my commitment, which I make here before you - there will be 100,000 in construction. apartments. These are the words of Prime Minister Morawiecki of 2018. So? Nothing. You've wasted five years of government. The first thing you did after you came to power was to liquidate the program, the apartment for the young, which was used by more than 100,000. young Poles. [[Applause]] It was helping them buy an apartment. You haven't done anything in five years. You've deleted this program. You promised to move in plus, and what did it turn out to be? By 2020, by the end of that year [[♪ The bell ♪]] There wasn't even a fifth of what you promised. This is your shame. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u191	Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The latest CUS data show that construction and assembly production in the first 7 months of this year is over 1% less than in the same months of the pandemic year. For an industry that accumulates more than 7% Polish GDP, that's a lot. The construction industry is sinking in debt. The National Debt Register states that the debt of construction companies, especially these small, finishing, family companies, exceeded PLN 2 billion. If we add to this the cost of construction materials, the lack of hands to work and of course the worst, this huge, 5.5 percent inflation, we have a picture of Polish construction. Ladies and gentlemen, the apartments, you can see right now, will be more expensive than your surcharges. If you really want to indebt young Poles for life, this is the way to do it. But if you care about their fate and you don't want them to indebt, there's only one way. First, lower your taxes, and not raise them, second, do not take money from local governments and finally get along with local governments because they are building cheaper ones from you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u193	Mr Maciej Gdula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! They were supposed to be cheap apartments for rent, that was the idea of an apartment plus. What are you offering us today? Expensive and small flats on credit. This is the truth about this project. Its assumptions are very questionable. The State has entered into the Act that the maximum price with surcharges in Warsaw is 9600, with transaction prices being 10 thousand. In Cracow similar data: 6800 is included in the bill, transaction prices are 8300. Is it that you are soaping our eyes and are about to raise these prices, and then, of course, you will want to keep up with this price increase that you are going to raise, or do you want to make young people have to buy apartments far in the suburbs, where there is no public transport, where there is no public service, where there is no bad living? I ask you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u195	Mr Marek Kwitek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u196	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is a good project, but the opposition, as usual, criticizes everything in the campus. In terms of the proposed solutions, the project combines the objectives of housing policy and family-friendly policies. Many families can afford to borrow a flat or build a house, but the problem is getting it because they don't have their own contribution. Therefore, the government in the framework of the Polish Government is proposing to use the state-funded housing loan. There's also a possibility. so-called. family repayment, because if the household grows by one child, it will be 20,000. And 60,000. with the third and the next child. I have a question to the Minister: Are there any estimates, how many Poles can take advantage of these proposals resulting from the procedated bill and what funds will the government allocate to implement this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u197	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u198	It's true that for the last six years, you've been promising to live up to your promise. But you made another promise - in the spring, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced an apartment voucher. This apartment voucher has already been presented to the public, and we are all anxiously waiting, asking where it is. A social housing voucher could be used to cover rent increases. After all, you've been pushing housing projects for rent. And where's that? There isn't. It was supposed to be a family housing voucher. Where's the family housing voucher? [[Applause]] [[There isn't.]] Minister, come and explain what happened to this flagship housing bill project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u199	Mr Jacek Tomczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u200	Mr. Marshal! It is good that Law and Justice learn from their mistakes, you can also look at it this way, and introduce de facto, in a poorer version, MdM, based on a good program that created Platform and PSL. This program worked well and delivered hundreds of thousands of apartments to Polish families. However, we are in a situation where prices actually gallop, demand is much ahead of supply. And now the question is what to do to bring these prices down in today's housing market. Does the Minister have an idea? One of the key elements that are causing price increases today is simply the lack of access to land prepared for housing investments. Investment funds often buy thousands of apartments from developers, they disappear from the market, and demand therefore results in a huge price increase. How would the Minister like to prevent this from happening, how would he like to increase the supply of land prepared for housing investments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u201	Ms Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There were many reservations about solving construction problems, it was said that the government of the Republic of Poland could not cope with it, although, as you know, we have been working with some of the members of the Committee on Infrastructure, we have adopted a lot of laws. Recently, the Housing Construction Act has been revised, which gives the possibility to build social and municipal buildings to municipalities, local government units, which are generally the owners of companies such as social housing associations. And we know well that since 5 March there are new rules that municipalities can get as much as 80% financing non-refundable for the construction of such apartments. Finally, there is great interest from the municipalities in this aid, because they can still do financial engineering here, use other sources. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So let's not worry about it. Let us also cooperate with the local government, so that less wealthy Poles can apply for apartments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u203	Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS doesn't seem to distinguish between housing and credit. People in Poland today do not care about having an apartment loan. People in Poland care about having an apartment. And in 2021, the most important thing is that the apartment becomes a law, not a commodity, so that people who want to live in Poland can live a decent life. Through the project you're proposing, you're going to throw desperate people into the credit network and force them to plan their lives today for another 30 and 50 years ahead. It's just inhuman. I have a question: Was it in any way consulted with young people? Have you asked anyone, any group of young people, a question about this? Do they want a lifetime loan? Or would they rather have a cheap apartment where they could live, where they could feel free? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u205	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology, Mr Piotr Uściński, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u206	Dear Marshal, I have listened to this debate and to the questions that have been raised here. I wanted to address them, although perhaps not each of you by name, because many questions were about the same matter. There have been questions related to comparing what is happening now with the comparison of the apartment+ programme to the apartment for young people, or the MdM Civic Platform. You pointed out that 100,000 were built as part of the implementation of the MdM programme. Apartments, but... [[109.]] Yeah, 109,000. apartments. It's just that they weren't built apartments. They weren't built with the state, they were bought from developers. You supported your families so they could buy them. I see nothing wrong with that, but please note that we are actually building apartments. [[Where?]] The Government of Law and Justice has led people to become more and more able to buy housing. [[Where?]] [[In self-government.]] Mrs Skowronska! Please don't disturb me. Please don't disturb me. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Please note how the number of apartments put into service increases. This number increases from year to year. Last year more than 220 thousand were put into service in Poland. apartments. The 500+ programme, rising wages, all this makes more and more Poles more and more able to afford their own apartment. But not everyone can afford to buy their own apartment because of the question of their own contribution. They don't have the money, but they have better wages. This bill is intended to help those who can afford to pay their credit, but do not have their own contribution and do not want to wait another year or 2?3 years to buy an apartment because they want to start a family more quickly, they want more children to be born. We want to help them with this program. You have asked about the results of the apartment+. So let me get this straight. Please note that there was not only a market part in this programme but also a social part. It was the one that was subjected to a thorough reform in 2020 and is now developing quite well. I'll give you the numbers. Since the start of the implementation of the scheme, the construction of about 35 thousand people has been built or started. apartments. More items will be added to this list any day now. [[We're up to 100,000 short.]] I'm gonna break it down into the market and the social part. Please note that by the end of August, 14 400 apartments have already been put into service. [[What's the price per meter?]] [[Market.]] [[Voice from the room: Yeah.]] 1839 apartments were created as part of the market part. 4687 premises were built as part of a preferential reverse financing scheme, i.e. social rent construction, carried out by TBS, housing cooperatives. And there are 7880 apartments, 297 beds built in social and municipal buildings. [[Voice from the hall: Under construction how much?]] How many apartments do we have under construction? At the end of August this year, 2677 apartments were built under the market part of the programme, 8794 as part of a section covering social rent construction and 8990 premises as part of the section covering social and municipal construction. These are the specific numbers that translate into the apartments that we built, we build. And remember, you didn't build it. In 2008, you withdrew from supporting TBS. You've shut down the National Housing Fund. You didn't want to support social housing. You focused on financing the purchase of apartments from developers. That was your policy. Ours is very different in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen! Many questions referred to the conditions under which the housing market is currently operating. In fact, the last few years have been marked by exceptionally good housing performance. Like I said in 2020 it's 222,000. apartments. [[Without you.]] Mrs... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: And it was another year with better results. There was not in the whole history of the Third Republic such a high result when it comes to built apartments. In relation to 2015 the number of... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[It means that Poles can afford apartments.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I may ask you to listen... If we compare the results of 2020 with the results of 2015, we see a 45% increase in the number of apartments returned. Data from this year confirm this trend, although it has not yet ended. The next year's very good economic situation is also linked to negative developments, such as rising housing prices, increasing construction costs in housing construction, including building materials, labour shortages, rising labour costs in the construction sector. These are the actual problems we notice. The record low interest rates have driven this prosperity in the housing market in recent years. Of course, there is a certain risk in the future of changing interest rates for those who are taking loans today. We're trying to make people realize that. People, taking loans, receive adequate information and are adequately informed, financially educated, so that they know what risks they are taking. We've taken all this into account. The draft submitted by the government assumes that addressing the lack of own resources when applying for a mortgage should not increase the risk of excessive relaxation of credit standards, should not lead to a risk of stimulating speculative activities and should not unduly affect the rise in housing prices. In this context, the conditions and restrictions on the provision of guaranteed housing loans, as set out in the Government proposal, should be considered. That's where it's written. There were questions about price limits. Indeed, the price limit at product level of a factor of 1,3 on the primary market and 1,2 on the secondary market and the average replacement price of 1 m Ladies and gentlemen! I'll see your notes again. Anna April asked about a specific case, what are the solutions for families with two children who have a small apartment, but want more children to be born. It's a specific situation. Family, two parents, two kids. They have a small apartment, let's say 45 m From such further detailed questions, Ms Zofia Czernow, who asked about the costs, about the distribution of these costs as regards the cost of family payments and guarantees. Of course, most of these costs are foreseen, and another Member has also asked this question. A total of 12 billion by 2030. The vast majority, a percentage of these costs will be family payments. We're counting on the babies to be born. The cost of the guarantee, of course, will be too. Let us remember that this law provides for such a commission. Those who will benefit from the guarantee will pay 1% commissions. This money will be used mainly to handle these guarantees. We hope that this amount of 12 billion will actually increase fertility in Poland. There was also a question of how many families would benefit from this. In the first years, we think about 45 thousand will benefit from this loan. families per year, and in the following years - 70,000. families a year. Of course, these are just estimates. Let us hope that Poles will benefit as much as possible, especially from these family payments, because this program will affect children in those families who take this credit. It was Mr Tomczak's question about how to increase the availability of land, because this is also the key to increasing housing supply. It's something that's missing. We actually see the problem. At the Ministry of Development and Technology we are preparing a revision of the law on spatial planning and development. We want the municipalities to be able to prepare local plans in an easier way so that it is simply easier so that it can be done faster and cheaper. [[Applause]] We also want municipalities with plans to be able to change them in a simpler way, adapt them to the current situation, so that they can manage spatial planning. Now it's often that the communes... Why have some municipalities not implemented plans throughout their territory since 2003? Because they're afraid to make plans because these plans are inflexible because they can't be managed. We want it to be all the more manageable so that it is flexible so that this competence of the municipality in terms of planning and spatial planning can be implemented effectively by the municipality. I hope that this will be a good answer to this question, to this need. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll be out of time soon. I guess I didn't miss any of the questions that were... [[What about the apartment voucher?]] Oh, the apartment voucher. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, our project is, as I said at the beginning, an element of the announcements of the Polish Order. We have a second piece that we're working on all the time and that's gonna show up. It's an apartment voucher. We need to correct what has already been prepared a little bit, and we will present this solution to you, I think, in a short time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u207	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the government draft law amending the law... Oh, that's not it. I'm sorry. I seem to have moved one... No, it's okay. After consulting the Sejm, he proposes that the Government draft a law amending the law on the operation of stone mining and some other laws... Yeah, that's not it. We've got some commotion. Excuse me, just a minute. This is the next one. [[Voice from the room: More fuel and...]] Yeah, yeah, just a minute. We don't have it here. We're not taking this to the committee anymore. We need to announce a few minutes 'cause one document is missing. Two minutes off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min 48 hours 13 min 50]] I'm reopening the session. Sorry for the interruption. We closed the discussion, and the Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on guaranteed housing credit and on the repayment of this credit in connection with the enlargement of the household, namely print No 1541, to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 26. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on countering unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products (Print No 1502). I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Richard Bartosik, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a law against unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products. The draft law aims to implement into the national legal order Directive 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices between traders in the supply chain of agricultural and food products. It should be noted that since 12 July 2017 there have been provisions in force in Poland to prevent unfair exploitation of the advantage of contracts in the marketing of agricultural and food products. Poland as one of the first Member States introduced such legislation before regulations were adopted at EU level. Since Directive 2019/633 introduces provisions beyond the scope of our existing law, it has been decided to draw up a new law, but with the same title. The draft law sets out the principles and procedures for countering unfair practices using the contractual advantage and the principles and manner taken in the interest of the public to protect the interests of suppliers and buyers. In relation to the existing provisions, the draft law introduces a wider scope of competence of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. The extension of the definition of agricultural and food products will also allow for an examination of the accounts relating to buying-in, inter alia. feed, live animals, seeds, oil fruits produced by farmers. The buyer definition has also changed. In the proposed law, the purchaser is an entrepreneur but also a public body which directly or indirectly acquires agricultural or food products from the supplier. According to the draft law, the competent authority for practices involving unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage is, as so far, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. The tasks arising from the Act will be carried out by the President of the UOKiK using the provisions of the Act of 16 February 2007 on the protection of competition and consumers. The President of the Office shall initiate proceedings in cases of unfair practices using the contractual advantage of the applicant, which shall give protection against the applicant's identification of the notification. The Act thus ensures the anonymity of the applicant party. The provisions of the proposed law allow proceedings to be conducted by the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection not only in the case of unfair practices indicated directly in the Act, but also in situations where an identified practice which has a bearing on the use of a contractual advantage is contrary to good practices and threatens or infringes the essential interests of the other party. High Seym! The draft law lays down penalties for unfair practices using a contractual advantage, for obstructing proceedings and for not making a decision imposing a penalty. The Directive introduces a common minimum framework within the European Union to combat unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. The proposed law introduces provisions beyond the scope of the Directive. An additional prohibited, unfair practice is the unjustified reduction of claims on the delivery of products after their adoption, in particular as a result of the request for a discount, protection shall also apply to purchasers, as is already the case in the current national legislation, by virtue of the Act in force so far, and unfair commercial practice shall also be contrary to or adversely affecting the legitimate interest of the other party. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed law is one of a number of initiatives aimed at increasing transparency and improving the functioning of the market chain in the agri-food sector and strengthening the bargaining position of farmers in the context of a rapid concentration of trade and processing so as to ensure a fair sharing of the benefits associated, inter alia. with growing exports of Polish products. I would also like to stress that the law is, as in few countries, separate and applies to unfair practices in the agri-food sector. These unfair practices, as I said before, are 16, including 10 completely banned. That's so-called. Black practices. Besides, there's six so-called. grey practices which are permitted but provided that they are clearly and unambiguously agreed in the contract between the buyer and the supplier prior to their application. Ladies and gentlemen! The Directive provided for the adoption of national measures by 1 May of this year and required that the provisions of the proposed law should apply from 1 November of that year. If the High Sejm decides to adopt this law, so will it, these regulations will enter into force on 1 November. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u209	Thank you very much, Minister. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Teresa Nolas, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u210	Thank you kindly, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, it is my pleasure to present to you the position regarding the Government's draft law against unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products, print No 1502. The proposal is intended to implement in the national legal order Directive (EU) of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices between traders in the supply chain of agricultural and food products. The structure of the agri-food and food market highlights unfair commercial practices between suppliers and buyers of agricultural and food products throughout the food supply chain. Such practices are observed in almost all countries of the European Union. In view of the presence of strong and economically consolidated distribution sector entities, and often even processing against weaker and fragmented operators producing agricultural raw materials and foodstuffs on the market, there are unfair commercial practices applied by these operators, which often leads to the exclusion of weaker operators from the market. Good relations between all actors are essential for the proper functioning of the food supply chain. Directive 2019/633 of 17 April 2019 provides a specific framework for the application of a uniform approach to unfair practices in the food chain. The recommended solution is the adoption of a law to counter unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products. On the other hand, the implementation significantly changes the scope of the 2016 Act on countering the unjustified exploitation of the contractual advantage in trade in agricultural and food products. In relation to the existing provisions, the draft law introduces new amendments to extend the competences of the UOKiK as well as to extend the definition of agricultural and food products, to change the definition of the buyer, to define unfair practices, to identify disparities in economic potential or to introduce a voluntary penalty procedure. The proposed law is intended to ensure more transparent conditions for operators in the marketing of agricultural and food products. Suppliers, including farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises producing agricultural and food products, will have greater certainty on the functioning of the Community market, including on the domestic market, which should translate into promotional measures, including investment and innovation in relation to these socio-professional groups. The proposed law assumes many positive solutions. The law goes beyond the EU directive and is a solution that we recommend to adopt. Nor is the proposed law intended to increase expenditure from the state budget or budgets of local government units. Since implementation into the national legal order of Directive (EU) 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council is not possible by other means, the PiS Parliamentary Club supports the draft Government Print Act No 1502. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir. Dear Peter, the platform is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u212	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Civic Coalition, I would like to present a position on the adoption of a law against unfair exploitation of the advantage of contracts in trade in agricultural and food products. It so happens that this problem is a pan-European problem and not only concerns the Polish sphere, so the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union adopted the Directive of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices between traders in the supply chain for agricultural and food products. It can be seen that very often the concentration of capital in the case of entities that negotiate from a position of force with suppliers, such as farmers or other agricultural producers, disturbs really normal competition in the single market, disturbs it also in Poland, and therefore it is necessary to regulate at European level so that a common framework, a common minimum, is treated in a similar way in all countries. It so happens that this directive sets a minimum for certain restrictions and a catalogue of unfair practices, but, as we know, this law also introduces additionally protective elements for farmers, of which we are pleased. It has been well consulted and will replace the existing 2016 law. We will support the extension of the definition of agricultural and food products as regards enlargement issues, feedingstuffs, live animals, seeds and oil fruits, which are and will be the subject of farmers' production, as well as the regulation of issues related to the change in the definition of buyers, as well as the extension of matters relating to traders or public authorities in the area of public procurement, which are purchasers, in order to reduce the risk of unfair practices in these relations as well. The proposed law defines 17 categories of unfair practices, including 11 strictly prohibited and six, which are permitted, provided that they are clearly presented and clearly agreed in the contract between the buyer and the supplier. The Act also specifies what is a significant imbalance in economic potential in the case of unfair practices, the exploitation of the buyer's contractual advantage vis-à-vis the supplier, and vice versa. There are also issues of monetary penalties. In fact, we would like to discuss the proposed law and the directive, because we know that a list of unfair behaviour, mainly linked to an unjustified termination or a threat of termination, has been established in the current - still existing - rules. The parties often granted one-sided right to terminate the contract, often made the conclusion of the contract subject to acceptance or fulfilment of additional benefits which were outside the scope of the contract. There was also an excessive extension of payment deadlines. Surely the bill is needed. This would not be a directive if there were no specific abuse. In the end, it is primarily the interest of the farmer and the producer to protect the interests of farmers throughout the supply chain and to reduce this supply chain as much as possible. After all, all this has already been defined, also in the strategy from field to table. As the Civic Coalition, we will support these solutions, but above all we will hope that this law will be well promoted among contractors, buyers, suppliers. The aim is also to create a catalogue of good practice and have good practice in the application of this law and good information about tools that are used to protect especially farmers throughout the supply process. We can count on our full support, because the interests of farmers and producers are the most important in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u213	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska from the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left Parliamentary Club supports the draft law on countering unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products. On the other hand, we are amazed at the legislative process. Namely, this law is the implementation in the national legal order of Directive 633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices between traders in the agricultural and food supply chain. According to the Directive, it should cover the widest possible range of food supply chain players, in particular the interests of individual farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises in the agri-food sector. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been entrusted with preparing this project and presenting it during parliamentary work. According to Art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Member States were to adopt, publish and communicate to the Commission the provisions implementing the Directive before 1 May 2021. However, Minister Grzegorz Puda ignored this and did not do so for two years, risking the interest of more than 1 million Polish agricultural producers, their recipients and indirectly all of us, consumers. I ask: Why the Ministry of Agriculture ignored the vital interests of 940,000 for more than two years. Polish farmers - food producers and 160 thousand. processors who are waiting for the elimination of unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage by large commercial networks on the Polish market? The Directive imposed an obligation to implement this by 1 May this year. Why, then, didn't Minister Puda Poland do so because of his fault? I quote what the opposition does not write about, but the Minister of this Government, the Minister for European Union Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Puda. I quote: In view of the failure to comply with the obligation within the time limit indicated, the European Commission on 23 July this year. initiated infringement proceedings against Poland. The deadline for replying to the Commission's formal allegations is 27 September - i.e., in 10 days' time. I quote further: the infringement procedure is conducted on the basis of an article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It is therefore to be expected, the Minister warns, that if an action is brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Commission will ask for a lump sum or periodic penalty payment on Poland. I ask: Are two years of delay with the implementation of the directive merely laziness and dylanism of the Minister, or deliberate action in the interests of large commercial networks? This is all the more incomprehensible because the preparation of these regulations was simple. As already mentioned here today, the same title has been in force in Poland for 5 years. The directive introduces rules that go beyond its scope and should simply have been implemented into the existing law several simple but important points for farmers. All the more amazing is the delay of the Ministry and the financial penalties threatening Poland for this. Last night we listened to a long list of nonchalant negligence and defaults by Minister Puda. His management of the Ministry of Agriculture has so far been associated only with Byzantine expectations about the exclusivity of hotels and limousines and the willingness to release the spirit of the responsible officials to God, so as to get back at his own lateness and negligence. In this case, the Minister is two years late. I am afraid that the European Union will not be willing to accept that this delay is due to the lack of VIP treatment of the Minister, and the consequences of these joyful negligence will be borne by Polish taxpayers when we pay salty penalties, and farmers - because of the sloppyness in the last minute and on the cap-pop bill. In the course of the public consultation of the project 253 comments were submitted to it, of which 150 were not taken into account and the majority of the adopted projects were only partially taken into account. Among those not included are the comments of Polish food producers indicating the impreciseness of the proposed entries. They want to avoid ambiguities and difficulties with interpretation, which, as we know, is a common nightmare of Polish legislation. In addition, a number of comments from the Competition and Consumer Protection Office, which is the body to implement this law, were not taken into account. Rejected comments are bloomed with a laconic official formula of practice, not included in the directive, or a repetition of the provisions of the law. These are illogical answers, because the directive allows for an extension of the provisions, and the new law is supposed to improve the existing (The Bell). The impression of the minister's sloppy work on the bill remains. The left-wing parliamentary club will examine the rejected comments during the second reading and may be presented in the form of amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u215	Thank you, madam. I invite Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u216	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, at the headquarters of one of the largest retail chains in Poland, there was a protest of farmers under the slogan "Stop of a bully in the apple trade." This word "crusher," which at the time was very frequent, refers to practices that today are applied both to those who supply fruit to the retail chain and to all other producers who trade their food products through these networks. The practice is that the supplier is in principle not a partner in the process of agreeing delivery conditions and networks, using its contractual advantage on the market, i.e. their great monopolistic or paramonopolistic power, forcing the suppliers to adverse conditions primarily in the form of low delivery prices. The low delivery prices then translate into farmers who, as the last link of this chain, the weakest link, bear the costs of the rogue operation of many commercial networks in Poland. This phenomenon applies not only to our country but also to other countries of the European Union. Indeed, in 2019. The European Parliament and the Council adopted a directive imposing an obligation on Member States to adopt provisions to prevent or eliminate this practice. What happened that the European Commission and the European Parliament adopted such legislation, such solutions? Well, many of the analyses that were carried out at the time say that in the long term the prices obtained by the manufacturer are stable - on the chart we can imagine this as a horizontal line - or slightly falling. On the other hand, the prices that the consumer pays for the products purchased from a farmer at low prices are rising rapidly, i.e. the line is a rising line. The whole space between the price line for the producer and the price line paid by the consumer shall be filled by the margin of large commercial networks. This, of course, raised huge opposition from European officials, European politicians, which also raises huge opposition from us in Poland, because it is, in our opinion, an unfair use of the contractual advantage to impose low prices on suppliers, and to offer high prices to consumers and raise huge capital. The facts show that this is particularly the case for agricultural, agri-food products due to the specific nature of trade in these products. They reach the market on a seasonal basis, because this is the most common production of agricultural products, e.g. fruits, and even especially fruits, because they are broken at a certain time, e.g. right now. This shop policy leads to price formation for the following months in which the products in question will be sold at low prices. This protest of the Sadists under one of the largest commercial networks in Poland, perhaps the biggest, was intended to prevent this and to draw attention to the public, but also to the government, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, that this phenomenon must be countered because it wants to develop permanently, it wants to dominate the market. Secondly, these are products that break easily, so it is easy to force suppliers to set a delivery schedule, and it is easy to force prices, because there is virtually no way to store and dispose of this product at longer intervals. And finally, the most important thing that is crucial in this case is the imbalance of partners. Large players, with strong capital, but above all with strong market power, force those smaller, small, weak capital entities which have a small market share and which are dispersed, which are very large, to supply at low prices. These entities absolutely cannot resist such practice because they depend on the recipient, which is a large network. Indeed, the Law is an attempt to organize or prevent this system. This can, of course, be done in two stages. One stage in this law is included, i.e. Certain practices which cannot appear in the contract between the supplier and the recipient of the product shall be prohibited and, when such practices take place, the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection shall intervene at its request or at the request of the entity which is being used. Let us assume that this entity will never submit such a proposal under threat of being expelled from the supplier group. So, in fact, there is another step that unfortunately is not included in this law and which needs to be taken into account. The position of this weak player at the price negotiation stage must be strengthened, i.e. it must be stronger at the price negotiation stage. It is not possible for small, small, fragmented entities, of which there are dozens or dozens, to reach an agreement, because there are too many to reach an agreement, and the law forbids such an agreement (the Bell), so that further work on this project must take account of this specificity, identify or increase the catalogue of prohibited acts at the negotiation stage of the agreement, and at the negotiation stage the conditions for the delivery of products will support those who will negotiate with large commercial networks. Our club in this consultation will actively participate in this work by submitting amendments, because it is a hugely important and huge problem which is of great importance for the income of Polish farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u217	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation. Do you have any amendments? No? I see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u218	There's something left of the Left. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Stopping the continued use of the contractual advantage in trade in agricultural and food goods should be one of our country's priorities for commercial practices. There must not be situations where large economic operators, such as: international trade networks, using their advantage over much weaker ones, it must be said directly, Polish food producers - weaker, often even disorganized. Polish farmers in this supply chain are severely undervalued. Big traders can do whatever they want today. In that case, the direction of this law, it must be said, is quite right and can be accepted due to the potential improvement of food security in Poland. However, I think that this is not the final, target solution to the problem, which is the weakness of the Polish farmer in relation to those piers with which he often has to cooperate. Let us remember that a farmer must be promoted as a supplier, a host and an economic operator, an entrepreneur. Apart from the positive direction, the fact that we have 17 unfair catalogued practices is also, I think, the issue of supporting producer groups, because recently we see the problem of soft fruit producers, who have prices in their purchases in principle below cost-effectiveness. The issue also concerns our daily shopping, our daily consumer choices. Why am I talking about this? 'Cause we're also consumers. We often decide what we choose, what products we choose and where we buy them. So I think it's worth paying attention to the fact that the action that was carried out by the Ministry under the name "Buy consciously" - the Polish product, could be carried out a little more actively. Besides, the Minister of Agriculture, also starting the action of the Solidars with farmers, could first apologize to them for later solidarity with them. The problem is also foreign capital, which is flooding our market. Clear communication from the minister, from the Polish government and support of Polish producers, so that our consumers, i.e. all of us, choose Polish products, are necessary here, because without it, even if the unfair practices themselves are eliminated, this will not change the whole situation of Polish agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Maximowicz, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u220	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This proposal aims to implement the European Parliament and Council Directive of April 2019 in the national legal order. This regulation is needed as unfair commercial practices are applied throughout the food supply chain. Quite often, powerful food processing and distribution operators use their advantage over producers, Polish farmers. The European Parliament and the Council, i.e. the fundamental legislative decision-makers of the European Union, have decided to introduce rules to eliminate unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage by the largest market players. The project makes it possible to introduce the right solutions of the European Union. It's hard not to support him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u221	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Mr Jan Szopiński, Member of the Left Parliamentary Club. You're welcome. I'll set a minute for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have half of September 2021. The provisions of the EU Directive should be implemented and applied, as stated in the justification for this project, from 1 November 2021. The EU Directive was published in April 2019, more than two years ago. I would like to ask the head of government, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki: How does the Prime Minister imagine implementing these rules for less than 2 weeks? Over the last four years, we've been watching a government show, fighting for influence, positions. By resuming votes, the Sejm votes to the end, as many times as it takes, in order to achieve the result desired by the camp of power. How is it possible, Prime Minister, that you haven't found time to vote on such an important bill for the citizens? Prime Minister, first bread and then the power games. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u223	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u224	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the project presented will not solve the biggest problem of Polish farmers, which is the powerlessness resulting from the lack of payment. The most common reason for this is the dishonesty of purchasing companies, which consists in not paying for agricultural products delivered in a deferred payment system. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 286 The Penal Code states that, I quote, who in advance intended to bring another person to an adverse regulation by property in order to benefit the perpetrator or another person, is liable for criminal liability. However, the problem is that it is necessary to prove that someone in advance assumes that he will not meet his obligation, and that is often impossible because of the translation of frauds who claim to know the state of his company, but did not assume that the farmer would not be paid. So I have a question about that. Should not the introduction of a regulation aimed at protecting the farmer as a weaker entity (the bell) introduce an additional safeguard instrument in the form of a penal standard which introduces a criminal liability for undertaking obligations to agricultural producers in the financial situation of an undertaking which does not allow the undertaking to be entered into and paid back on an agreed date with the farmer? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u225	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u226	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law against unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products, the implementation of the European Parliament's directive, is needed as much as possible, expected by farmers, producers and fruiters. I wanted to ask: How will this law affect the supply chain process and the final price of the product on the shelf in relation to the fact that the farmer pays the customer the price below the cost of production, and in fact on the shelf the product is several dozen and sometimes several hundred percent more expensive? I would also like you to respond to me, as the previous law, which was passed in 2016, has affected unfair competition. There's one more thing. How will this system act on competitiveness for small Polish shops, which do not have a competitive advantage and such purchasing potential as large commercial networks? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Kwitek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 17 unfair practices are defined in detail in the Act, including 11 strictly prohibited practices and 6 practices which are permitted provided that they have been clearly and unambiguously agreed upon in the contract between the buyer and the supplier before application. A completely new solution is the procedure for voluntary submission to a monetary penalty. If the party expresses such a will, the penalty may be reduced by no more than 50% in relation to the amount of the penalty imposed in the event of non-use of the procedure. Minister! How will these new provisions affect the low prices imposed on farmers by large companies or processing establishments that are economically unjustified and burdensome in terms of buying fruit, especially soft fruit? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Often the reasons for low buying-in prices are the collusive price used by traders involved in buying or processing. Will there be success in this matter when it comes to proving a price conspiracy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u229	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u230	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The pure essence of yesterday's vote of distrust towards the Minister of Agriculture Puda is the speech of my previous speaker. 17 unfair practices, which you define here in terms of unfair competitive practices, and show what the agricultural minister failed to do. For the past six years, the country has not helped farmers, among others. on the elimination of the effects of the ASF. In addition to this practice, this implementation of the EU Directive makes use of this and I will continue to use it until the end of today. On appeal to the Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Puda, his deputies: take care of the fight (the bell) with the ASF in Podkarpacie. There are more than 30 ASF fires in the Mielecki district. We need money, support at every stage, we need to help farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u231	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u232	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I confirm what Mrs Skowrońska said: money to help farmers from the Mielecki district and other victims. But I'm getting back to the subject. It's been going on for a long time. The subject was supposed to be dealt with. It was supposed to be solved. We've been hearing about this for years. This is a difficult subject. We need to be aware that this is a difficult subject. But I can see that nothing has changed because looking at how much the farmer is selling and what he sees on the shelf in the store, farmers are shocked and pay attention to it. I still hear at the harvest festivals at various celebrations: how we're going to shorten the supply chain, how it's going to be good, because it's unfair. They say what farmers want to hear, but nothing's changed. The agricultural holding company was promised. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I said, when will it be? It was supposed to be that farmers produce, they have their processing network, they have their trading network. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Consumers and producers are happy. That's one thing. Repacking goods - this is also used. Minister, is there any way to do this? Foreign goods, especially vegetables, novelties, are being repacked in Polish packaging, sold as Polish. If it's halfway through the world, is it healthy, is it good? Who's losing it? And consumers, and our farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u234	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Speaking of this law, it is worth mentioning the Polish Lada and the Law on subcontractors in agriculture, because these unfair practices, as Mrs Kozłowska mentioned, concern not only the contractual advantage, but above all the unpaid invoices for farmers who have often contracted their goods. In 2014, farmers across Poland injured by tobacco companies did not receive PLN 15 million and it was the government of the united right that led to 70% those amounts have been paid. So don't tell me that when you had power, you did something about securing the farmers' interests. Minister! How are the works in connection with the Agricultural Subcontractors Act going? Please tell us what the details of this work are and how farmers can be protected by this law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u235	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u236	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This regulation is expected especially by agricultural producers, but not only. And not only in Poland, but throughout Europe, also by consumers. Large trading networks dominated our market, and even though this bill will come in, I'm afraid of a psychological barrier. A farmer who is to compete and who is to enter into an almost legal dispute with a large network is afraid of it. I have this question and this proposal: Do you think about legal support, about creating an institution that would support and help farmers from the legal side, so that they can develop this courage in the fight against those who apply these practices? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more question about organising a large information campaign, which would inform all parties about what rights they have after the entry into force of this law and what threats they face. This large information campaign, in my opinion, is needed for all sides of the agricultural market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u237	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said in the club speech, during the public consultation a lot of comments were made on this project. 150 comments submitted by industry associations, mainly by industry associations of Polish food producers, as well as by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, were not taken into account. As I said, their failure to take account of them is reflected in such a very laconic formula that this practice is not included in the directive or that it would be a repetition of the provisions of the law, which does not really correspond to the substance of these comments, which mostly seem very legitimate. Therefore, my question is that the Minister should answer in writing and in substance why these comments were rejected (the bell). This concerns in particular the comments of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which will be responsible for the implementation of this law. It is also about many comments made by Polish farmers, which really seem justified. It is also about avoiding ambiguity.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u239	Thank you very much, madam. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will almost repeat Mrs April's question. It is so that large entities due to their position and negotiating power They often impose on farmers one-sidedly very unfavourable conditions for cooperation and, of course, that these unfair practices undermine the position of farmers or distort competition but, above all, hinder the development of agriculture. My question will almost repeat itself. I wanted to ask, Minister, what is the idea of informing Polish farmers and producers about this law defending their interests when implementing this? The problem is that large companies have great legal support, the facilities of large firms, etc. My question is what is the idea of an information, promotional campaign and, above all, whether there is any idea of how Polish farmers in this unequal fight support from the legal, financial side so that this project can be implemented effectively. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u242	Last year, Jeronimo Martins, owner of the Biedronka network, was punished by the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection by over PLN 700 million for the use of the so-called. retrospective discounts. What are these retrospective discounts? These are discounts at the end of the delivery period, e.g. at the end of the year or after a few, several months, because the company, the network, traded the products in question from the supplier concerned. The worst part is that the supplier of these discounts knew nothing and finally had to pay them, to include them in his financial balance sheet. Many people were threatened with a fall, and many people even fell because of it. Question: "Is this punishment enforced by the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection and has it been formally paid?" Information from various sources says that absolutely no, that the network appealed against it and did not pay that penalty. Second thing. Whether the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and the Minister for Agriculture know (the bell) about information that is repeated among suppliers, that they have said explicitly that this penalty will be passed on to suppliers in the new season and will force low prices - in order to earn more money to get funds to pay this penalty. Is such knowledge in the possession of officials of this government? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, one of the most important tasks of the State is to ensure that the conditions for market share are equal for all, so that they do not reward one organisation at the expense of another. This law is moving in this direction and this is an important area for the tasks of the State. And there's another side to the coin. All these large global companies provide the possibility of our agricultural products on different world markets and this is extremely important for our farmers, for agricultural producers, because they can increase their production volume, thus increasing their economy, increasing their potential. The question is: Is the Ministry planning support in this area? [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that our agricultural producers can be even more present in foreign markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I speak on behalf of individual farmers from the Opole Voivodeship, from Głubczycki County, who are mainly affected by the unfavourable patterns of contracts from German sugar factories. This is the area where, together with Norbert Kaczmarczyk, president of the parliamentary agricultural team, we are preparing an intervention to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. This law, which goes against the expectations of the Polish farmer to combat such competitive advantages and unfair practices, is a very good idea and I ask very much for great determination, as well as attention to the standards of contracts from German sugar factories, which are used in relations with Polish individual farmers, especially from the Głubczyc district. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u247	Thank you, sir. Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, will try to answer all these questions in a brilliant manner. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u248	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The question of the directive. I would like to inform you that in Poland since July 2017 the provisions of the Act of 15 December 2016 on the prevention of unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in trade in agricultural and food products have already been in force. According to them, unfair exploitation of the buyer's contractual advantage vis-à-vis the supplier and supplier vis-à-vis the buyer is prohibited. The competent authority for unfair practices using the contractual advantage shall be the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. I would like to point out that this law operates in Poland, has not so far functioned in other countries of the European Union, largely uses and duplicates the provisions of the directive. Our delay was also due to the fact that at the stage of interministerial agreements, opinions and public consultations, many comments were submitted which required careful analysis and amendments to the draft law. Public consultation has also been extended due to the wide interest of entrepreneurs in the proposed rules. System solutions adopted in our country, i.e. separate provisions relating to the supply chain of agri-food products and separate competition rules have also delayed the implementation of the Directive. It was necessary to coordinate the work on the draft law with the draft amendment of the Act of 16 February 2007 on the protection of competition and consumers transposing Directive 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018, with a view to giving Member States' competition authorities powers in order to enforce law more effectively and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. The provisions of the proposed law are in line with the directive, and I stress that, they will apply from 1 July - and so will be. Regulations on unfair commercial practices are known to Polish entities, and until the entry into force of the provisions of the draft law, the suppliers of agricultural or food products are protected by the law in force today, the provisions prohibiting unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage. I stress that the directive obliges us to have the law come into force on 1 November. Ladies and gentlemen! There's been a lot of questions. There was a lot about this issue that I had just said. There were also questions about the lack of payment. What I want to say here is that the bill we are discussing is that agricultural products that are easily spoiled must be paid for by the recipient within 30 days and for the non-breaking one within 60 days. The bill we're presenting to the High Sejm is the law. Questions about prices and the impact of the bill on prices. Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely this penalty referred to here, which relates to one commercial network, that the existing law has been implemented and that the price should be freely negotiated. This issue concerned discounts. One of the commercial networks has been punished, so the law is functioning in this respect and this is the best proof of its positive action. Price collusive issues are within the functioning and functioning of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. And only in this way, under the law in force, should the price agreement be notified. The Authority, if it finds a basis for this, will respond accordingly. There were also questions about repacking the goods. This is also one of the practices that are unfair, but this does not apply to the scope of this law. This is under the supervision of the Inspection of Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles and there are penalties for such practices. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to point out that our legislation has introduced the obligation of written agreements, which is very important, the provisions of another law. As a result, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection has the opportunity to verify these contracts and verify them. It is not a duty in all countries. This is also controlled by the National Agricultural Support Centre. This is also an important step forward, that already in 2006 such a law entered into force. The obligation to draw up an agreement in writing enables the examination of contracts and the elimination of such practices. Of course, we will keep farmers widely informed of the new law introduced. There is already some knowledge about this, because we are still talking about the fact that our national law was in force and farmers know about it, but through government agendas we will talk about this law, we will inform about its records. There was also a question not concerning this law, about foreign markets, ladies and gentlemen, and about the sale of our goods outside the borders of our country. The situation in this area is improving from year to year. Companies operate on foreign markets, we export our dairy products, our beef, other goods and the trade balance of our country is in our favor. I would also like to say that agricultural sales advisors operate in many countries of the world and through their operation the Ministry of Agriculture promotes good Polish food. We also promote it at various trade fairs. As you know, there have been problems recently due to the COVID pandemic, but this pandemic has also led to a significant increase in exports of our goods to EU and non-EU markets. There was a question about punishing one commercial network, also about whether this punishment was affected. From the information I have, it appears that the decision is not yet valid, at the stage of the trial. When this trial is over, this punishment will have to affect. It also referred to contracts which are concluded by certain sugar factories, German sugar factories. As the Ministry, we will raise this problem so that the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection looks at this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! Those unfair practices we've been talking about are 16. As I said, 10 are completely prohibited practices, six are allowed, but provided that they are clearly agreed in a contract between the buyer and the supplier before they are applied. And this is one of the most important entries in this bill. We will keep farmers informed of this, but also traders. Thanks to the fact that contracts in Poland must be drawn up in writing, as I said before, we have the opportunity to verify them, as well as to enter from the office where these irregularities are visible. I count on the substantive work on this law and thank you for all your questions and comments. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u249	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm should refer a draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration on the unfair use of contractual advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, Marshal of the Sejm, on the basis of art. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committees by 28 September 2021. We proceed with the examination of item 27. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production (print No 1451). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Richard Bartosik, to present the reasons for the bill. You haven't rested, Minister. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u250	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I submit a draft law amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. This project aims to increase the limit of diesel consumption per hectare of agricultural crops from 100 l to 110 l, as well as for one large cattle conversion unit - from 30 l to 40 l. The increase in financial assistance to agricultural producers in the form of excise duty reimbursement is justified by the need to increase the competitiveness of Polish agricultural holdings on the EU market. The amendments proposed in the Act will contribute to reducing production costs on agricultural holdings by increasing financial support for fuel used in agricultural production. In recent years, agricultural production costs, including fuel use, have increased. The increase in production costs makes agricultural production less profitable. The share of fuel costs in the total costs of agricultural production increases from year to year. This is also due to technical progress, e.g. related to the breeding of bovine animals. It is also estimated that this is related to technologies, often to increased production intensity and the pursuit of better economic performance, as well as to increased fuel prices on the world market, especially during periods of the highest fuel demand in agriculture, mainly during increased field work, particularly harvest and autumn work. More protective treatments or specialized treatments involve appropriate equipment and automatically increase fuel consumption. Intensification of plant and animal production in small family farms and large-scale farms requires the use of modern technologies. The share of fuel consumption in field and transport works and fuel consumption of machinery on the farm is increasing. Increasing quality requirements and technological standards in animal production also contribute to increasing demand for energy carriers for heating and lighting purposes or for propulsion of machinery and equipment. On the other hand, for large-scale farms producing milk at a nutritional dose of cows, highly-intensive feeds, such as silage, hayseeds, have a large share. Such an animal feeding technology is directly linked to the increased cost of fuel at the total cost of maintaining cows. In view of the above, the Polish Łada was included among others. Action under the name: an even greater refund of excise duty on agricultural fuel for which an increase in the consumption limit for diesel used in agricultural production has been established. Ladies and gentlemen! In advance of any questions, I would like to stress that an increase in the rate, an increase in the limit of 1 ha is not the first increase in support for farmers, because there have already been several such increases under the rule of law and justice. I also want to make it clear that this is not the last increase, because we will respond to what is happening on the market. Luckily, the prices of these fuels haven't been so dynamic lately. We have no major crises in world markets. Therefore, we react when needed. If necessary, the government will present another project to increase this agricultural production limit for farmers, the agricultural fuel excise duty limit. This law supports farmers, this law makes it possible to reduce production costs. I therefore ask the High House to take a favourable approach to the proposed bill and adopt it during further parliamentary work. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u251	Minister, thank you very much, too. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Małecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u252	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a statement on the draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, print No 1451. The proposed rules are one of the elements of the Polish Order addressed to farmers, previously presented by the government of Mon.: Even more excise duty on agricultural fuel. The main objective of the project is to increase the limit of diesel consumption per hectare of agricultural crops from 100 to 110 l and the consumption of diesel to one large conversion unit of bovine animals from 30 to 40 l in the case of an agricultural producer holding or rearing bovine animals to which part of the excise duty included in the price of the fuel purchased for that production is refunded. The entry into force of the proposed rules will support farmers facing high costs of agricultural production, which are an essential component of fuel costs. It is indicated that these costs are increasing and will increase with, among others. increasing production, developing new technologies, increasing quality requirements for fuel demand. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It should be agreed with the projector that the current situation of Polish agriculture requires action to minimise production costs. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the draft Law on the amendment of the Act on excise duty drawback contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. In this respect, it is in favour of directing this project to further process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u253	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Coalition's position on amending the Act of 10 March 2006 on the refund of excise duty included in the price of gas oil used for agricultural production, which aims to increase the limit on the consumption of gas oil per hectare of agricultural crops and the limit on the consumption of gas oil for one large conversion unit of bovine animals in the case of a farmer's holding or rearing of bovine animals to which part of the excise duty included in the price of fuel purchased for this production is to be reimbursed. The amendments proposed in the Act aim to reduce production costs on agricultural holdings by increasing financial support for fuel used in agricultural production. Indeed, in recent years the costs of agricultural production have increased significantly, including those related to the use of fuel, which significantly reduces its profitability. The amendment introduced is to increase the consumption limit for diesel used for farm work from 100 to 110 l per hectare per agricultural area - in the case of an annual limit for agricultural area it is 10 l more per hectare - and from 30 to 40 l per average of the large annual conversion unit of bovine animals - that is also 10 l more. Well, that's 10%. more or on the surface or per unit of conversion of bovine animals. According to the expert reports sent by the units, the average fuel consumption of diesel used for livestock farming or rearing is between 53 and 105 l of fuel. The draft law adopted the consumption of diesel used for agricultural production at only 40 l. The changes proposed in the draft law will also contribute to an increase in government budget expenditure of 160.6 million per year since 2022. The Minister for Rural Development will monitor the overrun of excise duty reimbursement expenditure and, if necessary, implement an adjustment mechanism to reduce the rate of excise duty refund. It means that this amount cannot increase, and I suspect it will be used faster than planned, because it is not a significant amount of money. The draft law amends the article. Paragraph 7 2 laws. At present, if the decision is amended, annulled or annulled, the refund shall be paid within 14 days and the new wording shall be replaced by two months. The project is compatible with European Union law. The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will support this project, although it is small aid, but every law that improves the interest of Polish farmers is needed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u255	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Sowińska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u256	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left in relation to the government draft law amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. Energy has a significant impact on agricultural production costs. This is due to technological progress and rising fuel prices. In the case of Polish agriculture, it is important to improve agricultural productivity, because compared to the highly developed countries of western Europe, we are still lagging behind in this respect and therefore our competitiveness is lower. In recent years, agricultural production costs have increased, including those related to the use of fuel. This law aims to increase financial assistance to agricultural producers in the form of a refund of excise duty. It will thus contribute to reducing production costs and increasing farmers' incomes. In addition, it will allow at least a partial correction of the losses suffered by farmers, e.g. as a result of frequent storms, droughts or the spread of infectious diseases such as ASF. Farmers have long demanded an increase in the excise duty limit on agricultural fuels. This solution is needed and the Left will support it. However, I would like to point out, Minister, that agricultural policy is not just about sewing up a new patch for old clothes, because these clothes are still tearing apart in stitches. In the Polish agricultural policy there are no strategies and systemic changes aimed at achieving the intended objectives. Because did you answer the question, "What kind of farmers do you want to give priority to: small and medium-sized family farms or large-area farms?" Do you want to support Polish medium-sized farmers who operate a sustainable economy or large industrial farms? Are you focusing on organic farming and food quality, or is it just the quantity and food of low quality? I expect you to tell me that we are betting on family farms and we want to develop organic food. Except they're empty words, and they're not followed by proper financial mechanisms. Because they are financially supported by large-scale farms and large industrial farms, and they dictate legal solutions, not the Ministry. Finally, a few words about energy, but not only in this dimension of combustion of diesel, but also in the wider one. Agriculture and forestry account for around 8% greenhouse gas emissions in Poland. Certain emissions cannot be avoided, at least not today - we have technological progress, agricultural machines consume diesel, so that we produce food. However, we should strive to balance greenhouse gas emissions in agriculture. This can be done, e.g. producing clean energy from renewable energy sources, but here farmers face obstacles. They can at best invest in photovoltaic panels and consume produced energy for their needs, but they can no longer sell energy to the grid. Why don't you let farmers earn their energy from windmills and photovoltaic panels? Why are you blocking the development of windmills with the ground law of 10H? Why are you blocking the association of agricultural energy cooperatives and the sale of energy to the grid? Who are you protecting? Farmers or big corporations? Just declarations aren't enough. Whose interests you protect, the actions and streams of public money that flow to the rich. Polish agriculture dies gradually. Over the last 10 years, the number of farms has fallen by 13% to 1.3 million. I appeal to the Minister to stop this trend and to support the development of organic farms. Poland sleeps through the growth of organic farming, which they use e.g. Estonia and Austria, where organic farming accounts for 20%. What about us? 3.4%. If this goes on, in 10 years it will turn out that only large industrial farms producing low-quality bulk food have been left in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u258	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the coalition club Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives I intend to present the position of the club on the government bill amending the excise duty refund law included in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. The amendments proposed in the Act will contribute to reducing production costs on agricultural holdings by increasing financial support for fuel used in agricultural production. In recent years, agricultural production costs, including fuel consumption, have increased. The increase in production costs makes agricultural production less profitable. Year by year the cost of fuel share in the total costs of agricultural production increases. It is estimated that this is related to new production technologies and often to increased production intensity and efforts to achieve better economic results, as well as to rising fuel prices, especially during periods of the highest demand for them in agriculture, i.e. during increased field work, especially during the harvest period. More protective treatments or specialized treatments involve appropriate equipment and automatically increase fuel consumption. The draft law proposes to amend the wording of paragraph 1. Article 2 Four laws. The change introduced is to increase the consumption limit for diesel used for farm work. First, it shall be increased from 100 l to 110 l per hectare of agricultural area, in the case of an annual limit fixed for the agricultural area held or co-owned by an agricultural producer as specified in the land and building records as at 1 February of the year concerned. Secondly, the average annual large conversion unit of bovine animals held by the agricultural producer shall be increased from 30 l to 40 l in the year preceding the year in which the application for reimbursement was submitted, in the case of an annual limit fixed for the rearing or rearing of bovine animals. I would like to point out, Minister, that the Institute in Falses, the Institute of Agricultural Economics in Warsaw, the Institute of Zootechnics in Cracow calculated that the average cost per large unit of conversion is between 53 and 105 l. In this bill we accepted only 40 l. Farmers ask: If scientific institutes calculate such values, why did the government accept only 40 liters? Proposed changes: measures between 2022 and 2031 are only 160 million each year. Why will these measures not be increased every year if we have the highest inflation in 20 years? In August it amounted to 5.4 y/y. With the current monetary policy of 160 million in 2031 it will be much less valuable due to the reduction of the purchasing power of money. The amount of excise duty refund is assumed to take account of the excise duty refund rate of up to 1 l of gas oil of one zloty and the area to which agricultural producers will apply for excise duty refund. This area, which is calculated on a national scale, is 11.4 million ha and about 4.2 million DJP. In accordance with the rules in force, farmers may apply for this refund from 1 February to the end of February and from 1 August to 31 August. The decisions issued by the municipalities for agricultural producers who have applied for the refund of excise duty included in the price of diesel for agricultural production in February this year include, inter alia, information on the limit remaining to be used in August. The introduction during the year of changes in the limit would mean inter alia. the need to touch all decisions issued during the year. In view of the above, the draft proposes that the proposed legislation should enter into force on 1 January 2022. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Club of the Polish People's Party through a proposal and a draft of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u259	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u260	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Returns of excise duty for farmers are basically a good initiative, given that fuel prices in Poland are constantly rising and already reaching a horrendous level. This increase in the quantitative limits for which these refunds will be due is needed, although not only fuel prices are a problem, but also the prices of fertilisers or feed, because they also unfortunately increase. It's because of your governments in general. Increasing these limits may at least ease farmers who, as we know, are often injured in these supply chains. However, it is a drop in the sea of the needs of the Polish village. Unfortunately, the inept agricultural minister Grzegorz Puda does nothing to stop, for example. The European Green Deal, which can lead to the destruction of Polish agriculture. Nor did the Minister do anything to open trade routes for producers, he did nothing to lead to a photo embargo on products from Poland that could enter Russia. In turn, also pushed by Minister Puda already last year, the five animals, really five against farmers, could close many well-functioning channels of our exports, e.g. to countries where you use or buy products from ritual slaughter, and remember that 40% e.g. Our beef is the one from the slaughter. Government action against farmers also struck representatives of other industries, furry or even dog farmers. In fact, all of this could have led to the fact that this year there would be no one to benefit from excise refunds, e.g. with large conversion units. The farmers should also be supported, the help should be given, the most likely will be the removal of Minister Grzegorz Puda or his departure, as we are waiting for. The disgrace is what happened yesterday in this room, which is keeping him in position. And going back to the fuel issue. This excise duty is not the only thing that affects farmers. As a Confederation in our programme, Poland has made concrete proposals and concepts for solving this problem. The aim is to reduce VAT and excise duty and the emission and fuel levy. These changes could reduce the price of fuel from almost 6 PLN, which we pay today, to about 4 PLN, which we encourage in the future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u262	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the governmental bill amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. High Izbo! In recent years, agricultural production costs have increased very rapidly. There are many reasons. Some of them are objective as mechanization, but some of the increasing costs of agricultural production are borne by this government, the current authority. I am talking about imposing new taxes, which affect agriculture, about galloping fuel prices, which depend on the policy of the largest fuel company in Poland, headed by a man nominated by Law and Justice, but also about expensive and galloping inflation, to which the policy of the National Bank of Poland, which is led, and how much, a man nominated by Law and Justice, contributes significantly. It is also difficult to find any activity of the new Minister of Agriculture in this matter. All this makes prices rise and agricultural production becomes less and less profitable. The proposal submitted to the High House for amendments to the excise duty drawback law contained in the price of gas oil used for agricultural production aims to increase the limit on the consumption of gas oil per hectare of agricultural crops and the limit on the consumption of gas oil in respect of the large conversion unit of bovine animals, in the case of an agricultural producer holding or breeding of bovine animals to which the part of the excise duty included in the price of fuel purchased for that production is refunded. The amendments proposed in the Act will contribute to the temporary retention of agricultural production costs which are growing in a way that is extremely painful for farmers. But that obviously won't solve the case. There are projects in the Sejm that raise further taxes. This means that agricultural production costs will continue to increase, which will, of course, hit farmers, but also consumers, i.e. all Poles. And this is the implementation of the flagship programme of Law and Justice: expensive in every house. This is the task that the Minister of Agriculture is also carrying out today. Ladies and gentlemen! Such laws can be made and, of course, they bring temporary relief. But this is the kind of thing that someone once described when they said about socialism, that it's a system that solves problems unknown in any other system. And that's what this is. First, the Government of Law and Justice generates a significant increase in the cost of agricultural production, which hits farmers and consumers, and then you come to the Sejm and present laws to ease. Agreed, they will ease for a while, but this destructive activity of yours in relation to the Polish village is unstoppable. You will continue to increase everything (the bell), taxes, fees. It's ruining the Polish village. Therefore, Poland 2050, which supports the Polish village, will vote in favour of this bill, but at the same time I would like to say that we are very critical of all these actions which the government is taking today and which are constantly hitting the Polish village. And today we strongly demand the cessation of this destructive activity, which the government is leading towards the Polish village. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u263	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm setting a time limit for one minute. I invite Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is worth mentioning at the beginning of this statement that the state often accuses the Government of the United Right, Minister, that we have very high fuel prices. However, please note that 9 years ago, in 2012, you also struggled with high fuel prices around the amount of approx. 6 PLN for 1 l. So saying today that this is an unimaginable problem, a problem that you haven't been fighting in any way, that's hypocrisy. Nine years ago there was a different reality, and today there is a similar amount. So remember your governments. That's why I wanted to ask the Minister about these subsidies for agricultural fuel. If the refund of excise duty is up to 110 l, I wanted to ask: Is there a chance in the future for further refunds, i.e. to improve this scheme? The idea is to make a relatively additional amount (the bell) for the refund of excise duties each year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u265	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As has already been said here, the amendment is to increase the oil consumption limit used for farm work from 100 l to 110 l per hectare of agricultural land. So in the case of an annual limit fixed for agricultural area, this is 10 l more per hectare of agricultural area. And yes, it's a good direction, it's a change in the right direction, but I'm taking it a little bit like it might be an IV and it's yesterday. Hence my question: Why is the limit increase only 10 l per hectare? Here, the Member has just asked if anything can be increased later, etc. I ask: Why can't this growth be greater now? We all know what the price of diesel is today and in what range it is. This change is actually 55 zł per 1 ha and it is a small amount at a time when not only is inflation and such a fuel price, but it is also known and obvious that it will not stop, that it is not the final price. In addition, the fuel has increased by 32% in the last year. The calculations in the project (the bell) on the refund of excise duty included in the price of diesel used for production are simply unclear. I would simply ask the Minister to clarify the methodology for calculating this change. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I respect the Minister very much, but I very much regret that Mr Puda is not the Minister of Agriculture. I understand that the Minister honours the High House only when it is to be cancelled, while your marshal is so well organized by this House that it is around midnight that the farmers who have worked simply do not see what excellent results we have in agriculture and how well this business is managed by Minister Puda. But I'm going back to the bill. The Prime Minister proposes to increase the oil consumption limit to 1 ha from 100 l to 110 l. Minister, 10 l per 1 ha times 14 l in the case of the average Polish farm is 140 l of fuel. The amount of excise duty is, as I understand it, 1.1 PLN in 1 l of diesel. This reduces production costs for the statistical farmer by PLN 154 per year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Am I wrong, Minister? Fix me. Given the current fuel costs, this gives 28 l of diesel per year. Well, Minister, to my knowledge, these 28 liters of fuel have burned two farmers who will meet in between to read the justification for this increase in the limit you are offering them. Think about it. Think about raising the amount you're offering to farmers. [[Applause]] [[Between their tractors, they're out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u269	I apologize for laughing, but it is rare to hear such a brilliant and intelligent statement, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. There you go. You have a difficult role to play to beat the Member who just spoke.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u270	I'm not gonna beat you, Marshal. I'm not gonna top it. Minister! I want to thank you for this statement at the beginning of your speech that agricultural production is becoming less and less profitable because it is true. You told the truth today, but your boss said something completely different yesterday - it was a country of milk and honey flowing. How's that, Minister? You should be the head of the Ministry of Agriculture, and I think that's gonna happen soon. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] As to the price of fuel, I confirm what my previous speaker said. 10 PLN per hectare per year. If anyone has a ten-acre farm, they'll get a hundred. He'll get a hundred a year, Marshal. That's the truth. 100 zlotys a year. And it's supposed to save and improve the farm's finances. 100 PLN, imagine, 100 PLN per farm. [[Voice from the hall: How much expenditure is on the farm?]] 100 PLN, sir. Do you know what $100 is? [[Voice from the room: Yes, I know,]] One farm, 10 ha. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Here's another thing. What about the price of electricity? Because today one of the companies announced that there would be an increase of 40%. This was proposed by 40%. Aren't you considering also dealing with the electricity surcharge for farmers, for entrepreneurs? Another thing. You said you could cut the price of fuel by half, I remember the canister that was at the press conference. All this can be cut and fuel can be half cheaper. That's what you said when you wanted power. So, what's going on right now? This needs to be considered and other possibilities sought. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u271	Thank you, sir. I think that the farmer - according to what you said, the owner of a ten-acre farm - will spend 100 zlotys earned on fuel for the electricity bill simply. That's it. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the O.R.: For what?]] The electricity bill, the price of which will go up. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u272	Dear Marshal, The price of electricity is supposed to go up by 40%, so I'm pretty sure that even electricity isn't enough, let alone new taxes. After all, Polish Load or so-called. a new shaft, as some say, means another, at least a few percent increase in taxes. And that is exactly what I want to ask you, Minister, because the costs of agricultural production are rising for many different reasons, but one of the important reasons is certainly the increase in fuel prices. However, the increase in fuel prices also translates into an increase in the prices of other products that farmers use in production. It is not clear, but it affects not only farmers, but also the whole country. On the other hand, in the context of agricultural production, I would like to ask whether the Ministry of Finance is even talking to the Ministry of Finance about even lowering the level of excise duty at the price of fuel, because today these high fuel prices, which are a derivative of high taxes, destroy the economy, destroy our country (the Bell), destroy the lives of citizens and destroy agriculture. I ask the question: Are you even able to shake off and stop destroying our country, destroying agriculture, among others. Is that the high prices of energy carriers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I appeal and kindly ask representatives of all parliamentary clubs who introduced a very important topic to the debate, to consider the issue of electricity prices for Polish farmers. According to the Polish energy strategy until 2040 all households must be heated either with emission heat, system heat or heat from low-carbon or zero-emission sources. What does that mean? This means that a farmer who has a household and does not have system heat or access to gas will have to use electricity. In view of the increases that the European Union is giving us, I have tabled a draft regulation by the Minister responsible for the energy department, which concerns the creation of a special tariff for farmers, because the cost of heating a single-family house will increase even threefold. I kindly ask all clubs to familiarize themselves with this project, because it is the answer to the question of how to relieve the Polish village so that it does not bear directly the costs (the bell) of energy transformation. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say to you that, in addition to the Union that you believe is paying us energy prices, today the Regulatory Office has given us new gas prices. [[Applause]] So from now on, gas heating will cost about 100 PLN per month. [[Voice from the room: Polish coal only.]] Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on which we are proceeding has also been amended in the article. Paragraph 7 2. Currently, in accordance with that Article, in the event of an amendment, revocation or annulment of the decision referred to in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act, the payment of the tax refund amount shall take place within 14 days of the date on which the decision granting the refund has become final as a result of an amendment, revocation or annulment accordingly. In accordance with the new wording of this provision, the words "14 days' are replaced by the words "2 months'. Thus, as soon as this law enters into force, the farmer will receive a refund of excise duty after 2 months. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I guarantee you that some of you will not live to see the deadline when they can get that money. Ladies and gentlemen, if you borrow money from someone, you have to pay interest. There's another old-fashioned thought that you should think about: Who gives quickly, gives twice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, In briefing the High House on the principles of this law, you were right to talk about an increase in the cost of agricultural production, but what was mentioned just now in these two speeches on information on the rise in energy and gas prices, this increase you are presenting has already been eaten on agricultural holdings. 1381,000. agricultural holdings are receiving not only this knowledge but also knowledge of the increase in energy and gas costs. But this bill doesn't give you a lot of instruments because it even says that you have a spending limit of 160 million 600 thousand. As expenditure increases because of this, because of the launch of this mechanism, unfortunately, you cannot spend more. It makes it clear that an adjustment mechanism is being introduced to reduce the rate of excise duty refund in the following year, as mentioned in the relevant draft law. Therefore, I wanted to ask: Are there measures in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development for agricultural insurance, which have been missing since the middle of the year? This is one of the important elements of agricultural production. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u280	The refund of excise duty included in the price of diesel is certainly the right thing to do, because it will have some effect on the profitability of the farms, the weakening profitability that the Minister was talking about. On the other hand, the inclusion of this plan in the plan for Poland, a strategic plan which aims to define the far-reaching tasks facing Polish agriculture and to define its support in this amount, is at least funny, because this means that the farmer will get 10 PLN more refund of excise duty included in the price of diesel. Putting it at today's prices, that's 2 liters of diesel. It's about as much as it enters my tractor into the fuel filter before this fuel is sucked and burned during the use of the tractor. And in such tractors as some Members of the PiS have, I don't even know if it's enough to fill these 2 litres of diesel between the fuel tank and the filter. Therefore, the question to the Minister: Are you going to introduce some real solutions that will help farmers to compensate for the losses that the state monopoly of Orlen, which raises fuel prices disproportionately to the situation on the international market, actually robs Polish farmers from tens of PLN per hectare, and then the government generously gives this farmer 10 PLN in the plan for Poland at the price of this diesel? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u281	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Małecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u282	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you that the refund of excise duty contained in the fuel was introduced by the Law and Justice Government in 2006 in diesel fuel for farmers. The question is because here are the laughs from Members of the PSL that it is only 10% More. The question is: How did you rule, how much did you give to the farmers? I think that if we give you 100 zlotys, you've given less because we're increasing it again. Let me remind you, that's 10%. per area and 1/3, i.e. 33% , on one large unit of cattle. As far as the increase in electricity costs is concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, who has signed the climate package, where are the consequences of the current increases? What was Law and Justice in 2014 ruled or the Civic Platform with PSL? [[Six years.]] [[Voice from the gym: 6 years you're in charge.]] Minister! I have a question: Did you go to the harvest festivals and present this excise refund project, with what effect did farmers address you? And one more thing (the bell) because I read in the explanatory statement that it was consulted or sent to 150 agricultural organisations for consultation: What were the results of this consultation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u283	Thank you. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna say that I'm not surprised that the Minister isn't here, absolutely. I know the next vote of distrust will bring him back here, and I hope to see him again someday. Why is the bill so low in diesel consumption, only 40 l per unit? Levels 53 to 105 l give us an average of 79 l. This is the difference ok. 39 l, that's almost 100%. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u285	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. Good morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to calculations supported by scientific publications prepared by the Institute of Construction, Mechanical Engineering and Agricultural Elektrification, the average consumption of diesel used for agricultural production is 126 l/h. On the other hand, the proposed rate is 110 l/h. The rate, as you can see, is too low and should be realized for actual average consumption. Why, then, are the limits not adapted to real consumption? In addition, the public consultation raised the issue of simplifying the procedure by introducing the possibility for a farmer with land in several municipalities to submit an application for excise duty refund in one locality where its homestead is. After all, it can be done on a statement and it will be (the bell) a big convenience. Will the government consider this possibility? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u287	Thank you. Mr Piotr Boris, Member of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal of the Left, thank you. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, any help is important, but this help is not enough. If we all see how much labour costs are rising today, how much economic agricultural production is no longer viable, it is the State's duty to increase the aid, especially when subsidies per hectare do not increase. They will increase little, despite the combined and cyclical announcements that we will match subsidies with countries such as Germany and France. We have our commissioner, the subsidies don't increase. But there is something that can help at national level to make farming more profitable, which is why we do not understand that this increase is so small. I mean, it's way too small, and that's what all farmers say, because the price of a liter of diesel is rising. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Also spending limits, an average of 40 l, that is far too little. That's why we expect more, and we're gonna ask for it. We'll probably also make appropriate adjustments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u289	Thank you, sir. Thank you, dear Peter. Please, Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u290	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! This law is of course necessary, although the scope of the aid is too narrow. We forget how much in recent times the price of fertilisers has gone up. For example, fertilizer, which last year cost 1300 PLN, today costs 2,300 PLN. We're talking about energy. One of the Members of the PiS spoke about the price for diesel. Let me just remind you that between 2011 and 2014, the average price of diesel per barrel was $125, and today it is about 80. We have to look at this, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the protection of farmers, their support should be our duty. I appeal to the Minister: Minister, the opportunities offered by organic farming are still untapped in Poland. That's the trend in the world. People want to use organic products. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's do something about that. Let us support this industry because we can really enjoy it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u291	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Łośko...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u292	Moose. Yeah, that's what I said. The Civic Coalition. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the bill does not provide for a very important factor, namely the crazy fuel prices. Fuel from year to year is more expensive, while the limits provided for in the Returns Act for farmers and their farms will be the same, note, in 2031 and in 2022. Is it not better to consider introducing interest subsidies and not to indicate in advance the amount of expenditure for this purpose, but to make their amount and change in fuel prices dependent on the fact that agricultural production costs are increased very strongly? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u293	Thank you very much, Magdalena Moose. Mrs Marta Wcislo. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're not here, Minister! Today we're investigating a farm aid bill, and the minister's not here. If this bill were so good, so expected and so good, then the Minister would be sitting here with an open headlight and a breast sticking to the order. However, the Minister has nothing to boast about, because this aid to farmers, in terms of return, is only 10%. 10% the refund of excise duty. [[Voice from the room: 33.]] This means, as it has been said here, that this is 10 PLN per hectare, or 100 PLN per 10 ha. But in addition to the fuel charge, ladies and gentlemen, the farmer bears a different cost. These are energy costs, water costs, fertilizer costs. These costs today are radically increased, and additionally the aid is being received. That's what we've been talking about here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Aid was taken from farmers in the form of subsidies for agricultural insurance against elements. Today, farmers have to pay their own high insurance contributions. Why did you take this aid from the farmers? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Galemba, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u296	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This law is good for the Polish countryside and for farmers. If someone here is laughing at this bill, he doesn't know what he's talking about. Farmers need support and there's nothing to laugh about. We're increasing backup by 10%. The demand for food, mostly organic, is growing. And this growth is recorded year by year, demand increases by at least 30%. So that we have a great chance of developing organic food production. And the demand... It's also proof that all farmers... We said that the introduction of the Polish Deal will benefit all groups of society, so also farmers. And that's why this support is justified, this bill is good, because farmers are asking for it and we have to tell the truth here. This is an increase in support for Polish agriculture. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's too small.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u297	Thank you very much. Whether this increase is sufficient or too small, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development will answer Minister Ryszard Bartosik. Minister, we are looking forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u298	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At first, I have this general remark. I had the impression that the draft law was the least discussed here. All other subjects that go beyond the scope of the Act were raised and the law itself was the least discussed. I would like to point out to you that the request to express a vote of distrust to the Minister of Agriculture, Grzegorz Puda, was dealt with yesterday. I wanted to inform you if you do not remember that it was rejected. We're not investigating him today on this bill, we're investigating him yesterday and he's been rejected. I am working on this bill today, and you will also allow the Vice-Ministers of Agriculture to work, and not just the Minister himself, because you have already referred to the fact that the Minister is not here several times. If necessary, there is a minister as needed, there are vice-ministers. We have a mandate and authority to represent the Ministry of Agriculture in the Sejm, and that is what we are doing. Ladies and gentlemen! Another roll call. I urge you not to joke about those amounts that are raised, because first of all, everyone, I think about all Poles, that's what we work for. This support is from the state budget and results from hard work of Poles, from nothing else. Every penny, every penny, every penny is very important. It is a good thing that they go to farmers' budgets, and this is possible because the Government of Law and Justice has taken effective action to seal our budget. This enables us to manage such measures, not other means. Farmers are, of course, satisfied with this increase, with each increase being satisfied, and this will reduce their costs. We're wondering if it's a lot or not. You claim that these are small measures, but I would like to inform you that these are not the only measures for agriculture, because we are proposing PLN 58 billion next year. This is the largest of the amounts that have been spent on agriculture recently. Let me repeat: PLN 58 billion. This includes support such as subsidies for agricultural fuels. All those who said that support for cattle producers is too small, mostly opposition representatives... I would like to inform you that there was no fuel support for cattle producers in your governments at all. Those are the facts. As far as support for producers so far is concerned, it was much, much smaller. We gradually raise these rates every year, and if necessary, we will raise them in this respect. There was false information about insurance here. It is claimed that farmers cannot be insured. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to face another round of agricultural insurance. For this purpose we spend annually, for this year, 900 million PLN. It is in the Sejm that work is being done to increase these amounts. I think the money for this fall round is enough. But that's not all. As far as next year is concerned, we are spending PLN 1420 million on this - I am talking about insurance. We believe that these measures will also be sufficient for all farmers who wish to be insured. The premium on the insurance premium shall be 65%. This is the maximum amount that European Union legislation allows us to do. Such a surcharge will be applied. It's about insurance. Excuse me, Marshal, High Izbo, that I am also talking about other subjects, but as I said at the outset, the issue of excise duty refund for fuel was the least of the questions here. Therefore, I try to answer those questions that have been raised. Of course, the law was consulted with agricultural organisations and agricultural chambers. We've received positive feedback everywhere. I have already said in my introductory speech that this is not the first increase in the rule of law and justice in this respect and probably not the last. We respond to the needs of farmers. 58 billion support for various agricultural production departments, for various actions is a huge, substantial amount. To all of you who joked about this money, I suggest you think about it before the words come out. If it happens that a Member or someone else is having conversations with the tractor on, I would like to inform you that this is a very non-organic action. You shouldn't do that. You should save fuel and think about ecology, but I would ask you not to joke about this support, because it is very necessary and necessary for many farmers. One of your fellow Members mentioned an extended period. We are trying to ensure that these payments are implemented as soon as possible. However, we have a lot of such requests - from refunds of PLN 50 to refunds of PLN 200, 300 or 400. This is due to the size of the holding. Simply these holdings are smaller and the return due is less. At the request of the Ministry of Finance, we extended this period, but only so that the invoices could be accumulated and paid not after the deadline but within the deadline. Ladies and gentlemen! I think this bill is expected by farmers. We're gonna do backup. 58 billion PLN is a substantial amount. As far as I know, we can expect additional resources next year. Do not worry about insurance, because insurance funds and for the current year, and for the next year are guaranteed. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u299	Thank you very much. [[30 seconds. The Minister was talking to me.]] There you go. The Minister spoke to all of us. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u300	Dear Minister, In my speech, I said, first of all, that I respect you very much, that you are here and that you want to talk to us about this. The master in my speech focused on the engine running, while I presented some calculations. I would ask you to concentrate on these calculations rather than on the engine of this tractor. On the other hand, from the point of view of this debate today, I ask you very kindly to answer me in writing whether my calculations here were correct or not. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u301	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, contained in print No 1451, to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and some other laws (print No 1503). In the meantime, thank you very much to the Minister. Hello, new Minister. Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets, Mr. Arthur Soboń, to present the justification for the bill. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a law on amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws, a law which is a continuation of this process, which we started as the Government of the United Right, taking responsibility for systemic changes in hard coal mining, changes of a management and legislative nature, which result in the European Commission's agreement to help the mining industry in 2016. In 2017, we adopted a programme for the hard coal mining sector in Poland, a programme that defined government policy in this area. I would like to say that both this programme in 2016 and what I have had the privilege of having over the last year, i.e. both the September talks with the social side and then the work in individual companies, and finally the social agreement concluded on 28 May this year between the government, the social side and the management boards of mining companies, has always been carried out in social dialogue, respecting each other's reasoning, which was on the one hand concerned, but on the other hand, understanding of the conditions that have recently been extremely unfavourable to mining. I don't need to convince the High House of this. In short, the directions of these actions, which we are undertaking, have been developed in social harmony, including with the participation of local governments, also with the participation of the local government of the Silesian Voivodeship. During this time, in the years 2015-2020, 9797 people, so many employees of mining companies benefited from cover services, almost 10,000. people, of which from mining holidays - 6123 miners, from processing holidays - 610 workers from processing and one-off cash checks - more than 3000. employees. During this period, PLN 1400 million have been allocated to the state budget for this purpose. Also an important moment was the Law on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal. As a result of this amendment, more than 2 billion compensation grants were launched and, what is important, these compensations were received by pensioners, pensioners, widows and orphans after them, including those who should receive such compensation - a total of almost 8 000. persons. Also the issue of households, the amendment of the Law on the monitoring and control of fuel quality, the regulation on quality requirements for fuels is an example of how, while also caring for workers, we take care of the economic situation, care for the environment and clean up the market for individual customers. The restructuring company of mines, which has its role in this process, simultaneously conducts the process of decommissioning inactive mining plants, remediation, drainage, thus saving and the environment, and those urbanized areas where the extraction took place. From the security point of view of underground workers - this is always the most important issue - in 2016 and 2017 legal acts were issued, which, by regulating this issue, reduced the operating costs of companies by nearly PLN 0.5 billion per year. Today's amendment of the Act is part of the continuation of these processes, which I have said here, because it extends the possibility to dispose of mines for SRK by the end of 2023 and thus extends this aid instrument, notified to the public aid instrument in the form of extraordinary costs, and to the liquidation of assets, and to cover, until the end of 2023. On the other hand, it is already part of the implementation of the social contract. These solutions, which we propose in this law, are very beneficial for miners, are agreed with them and I think that the whole House will today acknowledge that they are worth it in this socially agreed form of miners handed over or launched for the currently decommissioned individuals. In practice, this means that we finance mining holidays, holidays for employees of the coal processing plant and one-off cash checks as part of extraordinary costs. One-off cash check - and that's the part of the social contract - that's the amount of 120 thousand. zł. That's exactly what the miner's gonna get on his hand, by the way. As far as mining leave is concerned, those previous mining leave, the workers who are going on this holiday, will receive 80% monthly salary calculated as salary for vacation leave. Yeah, well, in short, it looks like it's in this bill. It's not an extensive act. This, of course, has an impact on the budget and increases the expenditure limit, which has been entered in the State budget, to the amount of 8245 million. These tasks, which we are proposing today, related to the liquidation of assets and shields for exactly 3719 workers who will leave the mining industry with the units being liquidated, are the amount of just over PLN 2 billion: employee leave for 1371 people - approx. 1 billion, one-off cash checks for 2348 people - approx. PLN 164 million, physical liquidation of the mining assets - PLN 669 million, repair of mining damages - PLN 194 million, compensatory pensions - approx. PLN 1 million. The remaining amount of this limit I was talking about is the continuation of the decommissioning tasks that SRK is carrying out. Continuation of these tasks. We know that these are long-term processes and these processes should continue. I don't think there's any doubt about that. Within this limit there are, of course, holidays, and physical liquidation, to the greatest extent, because it is about 4.5 billion PLN, another 0.5 billion is mining damage, and finally the coal equivalent I was talking about is almost 1 billion PLN. That requires notification. We'll make this notification after the arrangements. We are already after the agreement on the government and the approval of the president of NFOŚ, we needed to update the program. The UOKiK currently translates all documents. They are about to be sent to the European Commission. I do not see any reason to be concerned about the notification of this law, i.e. this solution extending the aid instrument in the form of exceptional costs. At the same time, this will probably be discussed and questions will be raised. With the European Commission, we are prenoticed before the new law, which will change the rules on state aid by adding a new instrument - that is, after negotiations with the social side of the European Commission - a subsidy to reduce production, introducing operational programmes for individual individuals and degressive production decreasing in time by 2049. We are at a prenotification stage, i.e. such an informal stage of discussions with the European Commission on the proposal that we have tabled. We are now moving on to technical dialogue in this process. We're going to be discussing specific areas. The proposal from Poland itself is specific in the sense that the situation of Poland is specific in the European Union and requires a separate solution. We are talking with the European Commission about the legal basis, the eligible costs, the support period, the instruments, how to solve debt issues, the investment issues, and finally the scale of the degressivity of this production. I would like these talks to allow us to draw up and notify this large law as soon as possible, which would address in a systematic manner the issue of support for the public aid of the coal mining sector that has been wound up. I want it to sound like it's here, too. Today, we are not talking about the restructuring of this sector, we are just talking about the liquidation of this sector, giving generous conditions for moving away from the hard mining work of mining workers. Therefore, I firmly believe that the Polish state, which coordinates Poland's energy policy, which is also responsible for the social issues of this process, should be generous here, should ensure that the workers who leave should be given adequate resources, and should finally provide a sufficient period of time to invest in new manufacturing units, no longer coal, and on the other hand to ensure the energy security of Poland. Because today, with regard to the basis, stability of the system, it is based on coal production blocks, and we have been in a situation in the last few weeks in a completely specific situation where these blocks work at a level that we haven't known for a long time. We also know that we are in a situation of completely absurd prices in Europe, absurdly high wholesale energy prices. Against this background Poland is also quite well due to the fact that the process which we have been pursuing as a government of the United Right since the end of 2015, we are trying to implement in social harmony and in accordance with the state's energy security, but also, of course, taking into account the climate challenges that Poland is undertaking as a loyal member of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u303	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mrs Ewa Malik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u304	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft law amending the law on the functioning of hard coal mining and certain other laws in parliamentary printing No 1503. The amendments to this Act are forced to further restructure the Polish hard coal mining sector for several reasons. For a long time, the stable functioning of the mining industry has been hindered by the difficult situation in the international coal market. From the fourth quarter of 2019 to April 2020, energy coal prices have steadily decreased. The main causes of price falls are high supply, low natural gas prices, a decline in the profitability of European coal-based energy, a long-standing SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, which is a decline in global economic activity and thus a decrease in demand for electricity. In addition, as a Member State of the European Union, we have commitments to adapt to the European Union's climate and energy policy, which is based on achieving the objectives set for decarbonising the energy sector, increasing the share of renewable sources in production and energy consumption, establishing and harmonising regional, trans-state energy markets. So here it is important to focus on the systematic increase in energy efficiency. I wanted to say that technological factors are also very important. We are also dealing with a situation where the increasing availability of gas fuel is important as an alternative to solid fuel, a reduction in investment and operating costs of RES, as well as the development of energy storage technologies. All of this causes coal energy to go into liquidation. According to the assumptions of Poland's energy policy until 2040. Poland has entered a state of energy transformation and is moving towards a zero-carbon economy through fair energy transformation, the development of RES, energy efficiency improvements, as I have already mentioned, and air quality. During the evolutionary transformation of the Polish energy sector it is necessary for the mining sector to ensure continuous supply of hard coal at competitive prices, and this means that the reduction of the mining industry must be carried out with a guarantee of the profitability of the sector, rational exploitation and distribution of the planned raw material. The bill is to some extent the implementation of the agreement concluded on 25 September 2020 between government representatives and the Inter-Union Protest and Strajkow Committee of the Silesian-Dąbrowski Region on the future functioning of the coal mining sector in Poland. It concerns the possibility to benefit from cover benefits, which is implemented in the draft law by extending the time limit within which employees of mining plants can benefit from them. The amendment of the Act is intended to allow for further acquisition of mines by SRK SA and their liquidation and restructuring of employment. The acquisition of minerals from existing companies of JSW SA and PGG SA and the financing of their liquidation from a budget grant will constitute authorised public aid, the scope of which is defined in the decision of the Council of the European Union of 10 December 2010. The costs of decommissioning of mines put into liquidation in 20212023 amount to PLN 2 billion 29 million. The Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice recommends that the High Sejm adopt an amendment to the law in parliamentary print No 1503. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u305	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the pleasure of presenting its position to the bill under review. Minister! We are colliding with the next stage of mine decommissioning, mining restructuring. You made it clear in your speech that mining was being abolished. This is probably the right direction, but it is also the time for the Minister to present in his speech the previous liquidation period, from 2015 to 2018, when you were about to heal mining, when you spoke very positively about mining. You were talking about healing the industry. I would like to quote, because everyone remembers these sentences, Prime Minister Szydło: We will not close the mines, and the Polish economy will be based on coal, on Polish coal. And that's our goal. Mr Kaczyński spoke of a good spirit, and he also said that we should demand a duty from the European Union on exported coal, which we then imported to Poland. And finally, the first person in the country, Mr. President Duda: as long as I am acting as President in Poland, I will not allow anyone to murder Polish mining. That's what happened, Minister. You do not present today the situation of Polish mining, in which you leave it between 2015 and 2020. But we all know that in those years Polish mining generated 6.5 billion losses, that we were bringing... Former Himalayas imported coal. This was done by both State Treasury companies and private companies. In 2018, almost 20 million tons of coal were imported from abroad, including 13 million tons of coal from Russia. You have made Poland dependent on Russian coal during that time. Today we're talking about another liquidation. The Polish Górnicza Group, a powerful project, strongly emphasized by you, has spread out, has fallen apart. It turns out that billions of zlotys for this purpose, to build this company, went to waste. Treasury companies, energy companies that have allocated funds for this purpose, today value their assets at 0 PLN. Maybe an example of the Jastrzębska Coal Company, maybe an example: Tauron Extraction. It's a similar situation. You change CEOs like gloves, they collect million-dollar cash withdrawals. Not much, since they come every now and then, there's more and more of them. They still have their losses. Jastrzębska company, since it's so cool, has 1.5 billion losses for last year. In this six months, another hundred million zlotys, another loss. They feed on loans that were granted under the COVID Act. Just because you can't fix it, you can't creatively approach it, we know that. But the fact that you can't eliminate the mines effectively is what we're learning today from your materials you've presented. Well, the Company for Restructuring of Mine from 2015 to 2018 took over 17 mines for liquidation. How many did she take out? Six. The others are waiting for liquidation and will be eliminated... She had 7 billion zlotys for this purpose, she used only 4 billion zlotys. That's your business, that's your economy. And then there's the D.A.'s office, which, in the context of corruption, is sitting with a few presidents who worked there today. Project, today's project. Anything new? Nothing new. We in 2015 wrote the whole chapter 3 on social assistance for those who will lose their wages. We talked about it being necessary and necessary. It's a pity you guys are so late for these decisions. 'Cause I remember it in 2015. - and I myself referred to this issue - 130 Members of the Law and Justice voted against this chapter. And you guys, with your hands open today, you say, "We give, we give, we help, we fold..." It wasn't your fault. Today you're just changing the numbers and dates that are there. In fact, some of your records from this project, in our opinion, raises doubts. You're talking about 120,000. for each employee, for each employee after a year of working in the mine. Is that how it was supposed to be? Is that how it's supposed to be? Anyone who receives the lowest wage will receive 120,000.? Compared to the guy who worked for 5, 10, 20 years? Is that the bill? You're talking about a social contract. And in this social agreement (the bell) you wrote down that the miners would have a place to work. And today you tell them no, burner phone, you can take it. That's how you negotiated with the trade unions. This is clearly stated in the social contract. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition declares its work on this bill. We will not only demand specific provisions in this act relating to social protection, but we will also demand information from the Minister on what jobs he will build in Silesia. What kind of money is he gonna transfer there? Because the fact that we're closing down is one side. And the fact that people, our children, our grandchildren will be unemployed is another topic. We would also like to speak with the Minister about this. The Minister says: this is one chapter, we have 2021, it will be 2023, but I am preparing another bill. Minister, haven't you thought this through? You're about to bring the second bill. Where's the comprehensive operation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u307	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Necessary, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is clear that the extension of the regulation on the disposal of mines and restructuring of employment, allowing the use of shielding mechanisms, mining leave, processing leave and one-off cash checks, and, above all, guaranteeing all the necessary measures, are necessary for the inevitable departure from coal in Polish energy. It is therefore also clear that the Left will vote in favour of further work on this law. In the explanatory memorandum of the Act we can read about many reasons why restructuring is necessary. We are talking about falling prices of coal, about changes in the energy market, finally about European climate objectives and the Polish policy adopted in this regard. It's all true, of course. What we cannot read is that the prospect of a climate disaster, the need to move away from coal, and thus also that the production of coal will be only more expensive from year to year, but less cost-effective, is something that has been known for decades. Yet, the rule of law and justice, but also earlier, preferred to close their eyes to facts. When I watched Mr Kowalski and Minister Sobony laugh so sincerely at the European Union's climate objectives, I see that you are still closing your eyes on these facts. These facts make you laugh. After all, this is the perspective in which future generations will live, but this is also the reality of Polish mining and Polish energy, the Polish economy. You can't close your eyes on them. The Government of Law and Justice lied to the miners, promised coal for 100 years, and all this to the detriment of the miners, the workers of the mining companies, the inhabitants of the mining regions, because it was because of your lies, by your omissions, that we now have accelerated, moderately controlled restructuring under enormous economic and political pressure. And this is not a European Union conspiracy. This is exactly the result of the negligence and the delay that accompanies us. Therefore, when we work on this law, but also in the wider field of Polish mining, we will always have one fundamental and most important goal: that for your lies, for your negligence the prices should not be paid by ordinary people, so that this price does not fall on miners, on their families, on the inhabitants of mining regions. Therefore, by listening to the voice of the trade unions, we will be asking for the government to keep the agreement with the miners. We do not accept any changes to the detriment of mining. That is why, as part of the work on this particular law, we will encourage ourselves, among others. for guarantees of employment for retirement, equal treatment regardless of the date on which the entitlement to mining leave was acquired. We will also make sure that no group is left out of the bill, including also administrative staff. We must also not forget that mining does not work in a vacuum. The key challenge is to support mining companies and to think about transformation in the category of transformation of mining regions and plan to replace extinct mining sites with new ones, and this is still missing. There's no specifics here, no plan, we've been accompanied by moss stories and ferns all the time. If someone thinks that mining can be eliminated in Silesia without the support of the mining industry and everything will work out, because low unemployment and economy are moving forward, they are wrong, because nothing is going to work itself out. We need a restructuring plan for mining regions. But there's another key issue. If we are talking about the implementation of the social agreement, then the consent of the European Union is a prerequisite for its implementation. Similarly, when we talk about the transformation of regions, money from Europe for this purpose is a prerequisite for an effective transformation. Neither is so sure. And what does the government do? Does the government throw all its forces at this episode, climb to the heights of diplomacy? No, not at all. The government is starting more idiotic wars with Europe: about the Disciplinar Chamber because Mr. Ziobro doesn't like judges, about lex TVN, because there they talk ugly about government and then you're sorry. Instead of fighting for the Polish industry, for Polish workers, you are engaged in some non-violent disputes, and certainly not around employees. 'Cause how do you imagine that? That a miner, a steel mill worker, who's gonna lose his job because of your troubles, what's he gonna think? [[The voice from the room: What does it have...]] The money from Europe didn't come, it couldn't be transported, there's no work. What's he thinking? [['Cause that's where you guys talk nonsense. You're lying, you want the judges to...]] That he doesn't have a job, his family doesn't have bills, but he's happy. Or what? 'Cause TVN's on the heels? Is he happy because Minister Ziobro showed someone? These are your priorities, and for this (the bell), your political mistakes can cost a great deal to ordinary people. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] But you don't care because power feeds, we know that. So we will work on this bill, we will make sure that the terms of the social contract are respected, but we also appeal to you while there is time: come to your senses, take care of what is really important, take care of the protection of the Polish industry... [[Voice from the room: In Brussels...]] ...Polish jobs, not some idiotic adventure at European level. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Brussels.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Tell this to the European Members.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u309	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. We made it. [[We did it.]] Great.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u310	It's gonna work out, as some people say. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is a serious topic that we are discussing today, serious for society, serious for a large professional group, but it shows how to think and look forward to serious issues, because the fact that there will be a problem with mining, everyone knew long ago, for many years it has been said that these tasks need to be resolved in time and gradually. There were proposals to look for shortcuts for some solutions, connection with energy, for a while we will quiet it down, energy is well, it can raise bills for Poles, companies, more pay, money will move into mining and somehow it will even out. But this has already begun to narrow down, because the galloping rise in electricity prices... Today we already have information that one of the energy producers, specifically Enea, has announced, has requested an increase of 40% in the URE. This is a shock. Shock? It was known because the electricity exchange prices have been very high for a long time - there is still an increase - and they will increase. That shows what we're dealing with today. Making a good impression that we can manage and for 200 years this coal will serve us... He can serve, but not for energy purposes. Blocking these solutions. It is also here today in this Chamber that we have heard that it is because of the Union, because the Union dictates the price of electricity to us. To a large extent, we dictate our own electricity prices. Of course, we have commitments because we signed off on this, more prime ministers and more, and others sign up on this, come and announce success, while in the country there was little or nothing going on. You can't eliminate mines from day to day, month to month, year to year, because it's a difficult process, it's a process that requires a certain amount of spending on multiple stretches. We're all aware of that here, and nobody's gonna say it can be done next week or next month, but that's what you have to tell people. People had to be told the truth. After all, there were many possibilities to retrain miners or all these professional groups related to mining, to spread it over time. Today, to a large extent, this price increase is also due to the fact that we could not, you could not take decisive action. If we hadn't blocked that renewable energy... Look at the windmills. They've grown beautifully. You didn't have to radically eliminate windmills, shut it down, but you had to sit down with those who had grudges and protested, and somehow try to solve this problem because the social problem was. The social problem was, of course, only that the total blockage harmed the local governments, and the inhabitants, and energy, above all, energy. Everyone in this regard is suffering losses. You were supposed to fix it. You didn't fix it, you didn't fix it. [[Voice from the room: What do you mean no?]] We hear the 10 h rule will be changed all the time. Nothing's changed, nothing's done. Photovoltaics began to develop well, and it had to be blocked. We are not looking for good solutions that will improve our functioning. E.g. the construction of the network. If we had a more efficient network to take this power, we could manage it better. It is about finding technical solutions that will allow better management in time of this energy. The sun doesn't always shine, the wind doesn't always blow. We also put it on Russian coal. I don't know how much coal is coming down today. Energy has benefited from this to a large extent. You were supposed to put an end to this, but you increased the import of Russian coal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[But you know the government doesn't bring coal.]] The government doesn't bring in coal, but somebody makes decisions about it, somebody creates conditions. [[PSL.]] [[The European Union.]] Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party will work on this project because it needs to be done. We will make concrete proposals and solutions that will move forward, because it is not only in money to pass money and deal with the subject, because it is just a time solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u311	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What has happened to Polish mining for the last 30 years is one great shame and shame, for which all parliamentary clubs sitting in this Chamber are responsible because there are politicians in them or they are a direct continuation of all governments after 1991. Ladies and gentlemen! There were slogans about restructuring, i.e. liquidation, because there was no meaningful restructuring for 30 years. There was either liquidation, or there was loosening, loosening political factors, unfortunately the loosening of trade unions, which first blocked a sensible transformation, and then put their hands to liquidation, capitulating totally on mining last year. Yes, trade union gentlemen, not all of them, but those who have decided and decided for the past 30 years in the case of mining, what happened to mining is also your fault and your responsibility. It was you with subsequent governments who introduced policies: assault, policies to increase personal profits instead of policies of meaningful transformation and restructuring. Finally, all formations, Left, PSL, Platform and PiS, are co-responsible for the surrender within the European Union and the final burial of our mining, our energy. A few dozen percent will increase accounts this year by European Union policy. Whoever says otherwise is lying. It was the policy of successive governments that did not build a nuclear power plant that did not prepare Poland and did not carry out this transformation, which simply capitulated before the EU's climate policy, instead of negotiating a transformation at a reasonable pace for the specific Polish energy economy. This is an indictment against all of you. The second Republic was able to build Gdynia, was able to build a coal bus, was able to do much more for 20 years. You guys couldn't even reorganize what was inherited from the Ministry of Mining, all of you who were sitting in this room. Minister! What you are doing today, what the PiS government is doing, is racing the European Union to liquidate Polish mines. The social agreement assumed that by 2049 mines would be liquidated (the bell), and now with taxpayers' money you are trying to bribe miners and mines when it comes to even faster decommissioning. The cost of this liquidation is over PLN 8 billion. Unfortunately, you're not a good change. You're a terrible continuation of this 30th century.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u313	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u314	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The European Union is discussing details of the implementation of the new level of greenhouse gas reduction by 55% by 2030. The legislation approved the objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050. Measures under national recovery plans are separated, of which at least 37% to invest in pro-climate, transformation projects. Meanwhile, in Poland the government defends Poland's energy policy until 2040, which is inadequate for new challenges, and together with the new goals of the reduction of the European Union has become a historic story. PiS escalates conflicts between the government and the European Commission, putting us at risk of losing money from the National Plan for Reconstruction. At the same time, it grants concessions to new mines, putting us at risk of losing money from the energy transformation programme. Today we learn that one of the energy producers in Poland has requested a 40% increase in prices for households. The question is, when are you really gonna wake up? When you read the justification, you can get the impression that the legislators want to cheat everyone at all costs: actually nothing happens and with a headache pill we are able to cure gangrene, you just have to take more pills, for a few more years, because one tablet is not enough. Restructuring of mining in Poland is only by name. We still have a huge mining sector that is consistently sucking money out of the budget. For future generations, but also for us, this does not give hope that eventually we will go through this transformation process and build energy stability based on new, clean energy sources. Between 1990 and 2016, we threw almost a quarter of a trillion zlotys into mining. If you think about what you could've done with that money, your hair goes crazy. Under the PiS, there are billions more in the mines, inefficiently. It's not about not talking about restructuring, not talking about the future of mining regions. I come from a circle like this. We need to talk about energy transformation, about moving away from coal. We also want to work on this bill, but we really are tired of taking part in some spectacles where the king is naked, Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We expect a serious and sincere debate from the government on restructuring mining. Finally, we want you to stop lying to citizens about the current state and boast about the report by the Climate Ministry, which states that after 2030 we will have a huge decline in production capacity and, therefore, even greater problems with the stability of energy prices in Poland. Thank you very much. Poland 2050, of course, assumes that we will join in further work on this bill... Thank you very much, Member. ...but we really expect, as I said, to finally have a serious discussion about energy transformation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u315	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm looking at the clock. About an hour. 18.30 we have a vote, and it is my duty to steer this discussion so that we can get there. Well, that's the first thing. If any of you want to sign up for questions, do it right now, please, because I'm gonna close the list and I'm not gonna open it again. This is the first case. Sorry about the discipline. Second of all, one minute at a time, I'm gonna interrupt. Politely, but I'll interrupt. Third, I kindly ask the Minister... If you speak a little less than 15 minutes - if you can - I'd appreciate it. If not, of course not. I'm opening questions. A minute is a time limit for questioning. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I defend Polish coal, because only Polish coal gives Poland energy sovereignty. The alternative is only gas, and gas is the raw material imported in almost 90%. In a minute, we're going to have 40 billion meters. [[A voice from the room: No!]] This is the result of decisions that have taken place within the European Council. In order to reject this anti-social policy of the European Union, we need to defend Polish coal. Minister! I am clear: the fight for Polish coal is just beginning. I would like to thank those trade unionists who have the courage to defend Polish coal - with OPZZ, with Thank you to Bogdan Tkocz, thank you to Adam Olejnik, thank you to all those who, like Artur Wolf, defend Polish coal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The left should defend Polish coal today, and you are not there. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u317	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Gas is not an alternative to coal. You're gonna need to learn a little bit. It is also fossil fuel and is not a target fuel under climate policy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We'll see.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Secondly, this law is not a law on energy transformation, it is not even a law on mine decommissioning. She's the bill on the possible pacification of the miners' objections. There's not a word here about real, planned energy transformation, there's nothing about energy. So what if we eliminate the coal extraction? What are we gonna sunbathe our outdated power plants with? Like now, Russian coal? Is that what this is about? [[Voice from the room: We have Polish.]] Secondly, a transformation of mining regions is needed, a real transformation, not writing a ticket to an EU ATM, inefficiently and for small money, disproportionate (the Bell) to what is needed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u319	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u320	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, Because you're signed under this project. Quite recently I heard from you that the Polish economy is moving forward, one of the MEPs announced to him the truth revealed that Poland does not need the European Union's resources at all, and your colleagues compare the European Union with the Third Reich and call for the fight against the occupier. However, among these grubby statements, you are referring to the justification of this project for a recession that threatens the entire mining industry. You are talking about low prices of natural gas, while at the same time giving Poles two increases at very small intervals. Today we hear three o'clock. You are talking about lower energy prices in Germany, while at the same time giving Poles huge increases in electricity charges. You talked about the deteriorating mining economy, while at the same time combing one of the biggest projects that cost Poles PLN 2 billion. How is it possible that, in view of the popular (Bell) trend of lowering energy prices, about which you write in the explanatory memorandum, the Polish citizen hears about further increases in charges every day? Dear Prime Minister, Minister! I'm gonna ask you kindly to answer in writing. My constituents are waiting for this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u322	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! For many years we have heard about the big money that has been used to support mining. It's support for different needs and in different forms. I wonder if there's such a balanced combination of how much money has been pumped into the mining industry over the last few years. Because we've heard all the time that black energy is the cheapest energy, and we're not talking about it anymore. Questions. For years, the state has been buying coal, making its supplies. It was handled by the Material Reserve Agency, which was called back then. Is this coal used, or is it still behind? Because it's quiet, and then there's a lot of money going for it. And go on. What about prosumer energy? Any citizen could produce it, but right now you're not taking organisational action to secure it, you're just taking action to cut production. Prosumers produce 1% solar energy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It can be managed and used, and the state is blocking it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u323	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. [[The applause was gone, the room's asleep.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u324	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 40%. I am not talking about alcohol content in popular liquor, I am talking about what increases will affect Poles in terms of energy prices and what punishment they will punish. Poles will pay for this government's irresponsible policy. You poison Poles with Russian and Colombian coal, although you could have taken a long time to move forward and move on to a completely different policy, to a policy that will ensure a fair energy transformation. It is about a transformation that will result in energy from renewable sources: from the sun, from the water, from the wind. This is the energy that will give us real sovereignty. Because today this sovereignty is based on Russian and Colombian coal. Minister! I have one question: What proposals will you have for miners who work in private mines (the bell)? Because this is a big group that also needs to be taken care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u325	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Żuk, Kukiz.15. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll start with the question. One threat I see is the current energy policy of the State 2040. The second element is what you are negotiating now: an energy policy by 2049. In my view, it should be that this policy should be in force by 2050, then these planned processes would be consistent. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as prices are concerned, in Germany actually 30%, sometimes 40% energy is renewable energy. Has anyone asked themselves why this energy is twice as expensive as in Poland when it comes to wholesale prices? The truth is: the technical cost of producing 1 MWh is between 150 PLN and 200 PLN, but the second 250 PLN we pay for CO emissions penalties [[Half the truth, you're not talking about two.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u327	Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Gosek, Law and Justice. There isn't. If there isn't, it's Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Greens.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u328	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A fair transformation is one where people are in the first place, and I see too often that machines and wealth are in the first place, and people are in the last. People are fucked up - told me in June Mr. Marcin, a miner from Zabrze. Minister! This new bill doesn't exactly treat people fairly either. Let me give you one example. Mine workers, which have been in liquidation since 2015, who did not want or could not leave work until 2018, because e.g. The director of the mine didn't agree to this, and today they work without the right to check in. These are whole groups of surface workers, including administrative staff. They are often women of 50+ age who have no right to check in today or to any of the bridge holidays. I met some of these women, and they asked me not to leave them without backup. Minister! Will you allow hard-working people to be cocked in the Polish transformation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] If not, will you be open to the amendments at first reading? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u329	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Fair energy transformation is constitutional, equal treatment of hard coal and lignite. Fired miners, workers from the Konin-Turkish region demand similar solutions and shields financed from the state budget, as in the case of hard coal mining workers. They demand, among others. mining holidays, bridge pensions, social benefits, one-off checks or loans on a preferential basis when conducting business activities. And this problem will not be solved by a fair transformation programme funded by the KPO. In view of the above, I kindly ask you to answer how the government will support or support the restructuring of the brown coal (Bell) industry from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u331	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u332	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At the moment it is planned to switch to energy from gas combustion. This is a dangerous action, because today we know that almost 70% is the energy from coal combustion, 17% is renewable energy sources, and only 10% Gas. Why are you planning to invest again in the gas we're going to be addicted to? You do not invest in renewable energy sources, and investment in Ostrołęka will cost billions more. Farmers are waiting for the possibility of building biogas plants, photovoltaic installations, windmills, and you are still talking about gas, which has been to be treated as coal since 2030, and at the moment the European Investment Bank will no longer provide loans (the bell) for gas-related investments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u333	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Malik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? [[Voice from the room: Yes, it is.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u334	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the fact that we are discussing the issue of energy transformation today, because mine decommissioning is one of such transformations, I would like to ask the Minister about the government's opinion on Commissioner Timmermans' proposal to the Member States of the European Union called It is about speeding up the arrival of Member States to meet the climate targets by 2030. I ask you to answer how the government wants to meet this next, very unrealistic challenge without sinking the Polish economy into recession, without sinking Polish society into energy poverty. Will the government take up this challenge without promising a really fair amount from the EU budget to the so-called. A fair transformation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u335	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm going to go back to that bill we're talking about today. If you'd said bravely and honestly, that's the kind of mine we want to take out. That's what we have so much money for. - you already told me, but you didn't name the mine we're trying to liquidate. If you say clearly that so many and so many employees will, of course, be affected - we know - but by groups. That they'd be workers from a mine like this or a mine like this. That the presidents of these coal companies within a year, knowing that these mines would be liquidated, would accept new employees. How many situations were there? Is this the director, the president, who's gonna pay for taking him into a given mine, or are they gonna be workers pulled from the entire mining plant into one move and everyone's gonna go out, let's just say to themselves, into these cover contracts? And second question: How will you implement Chapter 5 of the Social Agreement in this Act, which was signed by you and your colleagues, by representatives of the government and the social side in May this year.? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u337	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u338	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Minister's calming us down that everything's okay. Everything would have been okay if it hadn't been for the tariff proposals and the rise in energy prices: Enea already 40%, and in a moment it would have been the same in Tauron and PGE. So this is simply the effect of omissions and I know that what did not happen in 2015, today, in sweat, the Minister must pursue. Like your mistakes in 2019 and completely idiotic - I am not afraid to say in this room - the concept of adding to energy prices. So you've just sold CO2 certificates to big companies and you've paid off to big companies. And unfortunately, today we all suffer for it. My question, on the other hand, is this. In parallel, talks are taking place about the NABE uprising. In this situation, did not the government analyze the merger of these two institutions, because there all coal assets, mines and producers (the bell) are to move to NABE. Perhaps it is worth having one such entity where this process of liquidation will take place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u339	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Merry, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start by asking you a question so I can ask you something, because I have a few thoughts. Minister! You mentioned it briefly. It is about mining damage and whether, in the entire restructuring process, both local governments and residents of mining regions can feel safe when it comes to eliminating mining damage? I took part in several meetings and these questions are alive. And a few reflections. I'm heartbroken when we're talking about moving away from coal. I am a Silesian and I believe that there is too much price for both Silesia and Poland to pay for EU policy, [[Applause]] the European Union's climate policy. I cannot listen to the politicians of the Civic Platform's peaceful exit from coal when in 2015 thousands of miners could lose their salaries because you led to a situation where mining was in decline and we were saving them. I can't hear it because (The bell) these are facts. Ladies and gentlemen, before you say anything about this, we should speak with one voice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u341	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u342	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I insist on the bill on coal for brown coal. I insist on the horse pit, the Bełchatów, the Turoszów, because there are also living people there, miners who will participate in the transformation process. I know, you're working on the National Energy Safety Agency, and there's also going to be a question of brown coal miners. Coverage schemes, pensions, etc. are also to be included. But the question arises: Will these miners be treated equally? Or, for example, Miners from the Koninsky Basin, who work in a private mine, will be as able to count on public aid as miners from state mines? How are they really different? The fact that the funding is on the other hand? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Public aid on this side, Minister, is very important. And one more question. You promised to take care of mining pensions in the Koninsk Basin. Thank you very much. The miners are handling their cases in court. I'm asking for it, and I'm reminding myself of it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u343	I invite Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u344	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These mining reforms should be brought back to the years of the Citizen Platform and PSL governments. Let me remind you that thanks to your actions mining disappeared from the map of the Polish economy. 2015, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, a very large crisis. What's going on? Nothing, literally nothing's going on. Only the rule of law and justice rebuilt this mining and Jastrzębska Coal Company. Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform and the PSL destroyed mining under their rule. They're doing it in Brussels today. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: Can the Minister count on representatives of the Civic Platform, the PSL, the Left in Brussels? Thank you very much. [[More than yours.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u345	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u346	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The world, including the European Union. He has long decided that he is going away from fossil fuels, including coal, Mr President. [[Voice from the hall: Especially the world.]] And what do your government do? He arrives in Silesia, especially during Barbórka, and delusions of miners that Polish coal is still Polish gold. That's what other prime ministers say. You build a coal plant in Ostrołęka, then you strip it off, you lose billions. You don't do energy transformation, and energy prices go up. I have three questions for the Minister: Where are the expected compensations for electricity charges for citizens? How much have we paid to mining in 2020? Why, when it comes to assessing emissions trading, are you talking about this, taking into account only one side, that it is the fault of the European Union (the Bell) and not that the Polish budget has received 14.2 billion? And my question is, what are you gonna do about it? How much of this is going to go into transformation? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u347	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u348	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This speaker is often accused of importing Russian coal into Poland. I'd like to ask the Minister to explain what it's like with this Russian coal. Is it true that an embargo would have to be imposed throughout the European Union so that coal would not be imported? Which of the European Union brings the most Russian coal today? What mechanisms were introduced by the Polish government a few years ago to limit the import of the most saturated coal, just Russian? Which mechanisms allowed us to do this because we are operating in the common EU market? Unfortunately, there are countries in the European Union that do not wish to impose an embargo on Russian coal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And unfortunately, that's what we've been dealing with for a few years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u349	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum states that the current transformation of the hard coal mining sector is aimed at eliminating it and that the number of jobs in this sector will systematically decrease. The truth is, you've been cheating miners throughout your reign, saying they won't lose their jobs. The inhabitants of Silesia perfectly remember the words of the former Prime Minister Szydło and other representatives of your government that you will not eliminate mines. You've been talking about everything and everything. Unfortunately, it's different. Mr Matusiak! Don't be nervous because I'm afraid I'm telling the truth. You don't have any idea about hard coal mining. Wouldn't it be better to create an energy transition programme that could create jobs for people from mines and their surroundings in the renewable energy sector, including photovoltaic or wind energy? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can't even do that, and you're in charge for six years. Thank you very much. And where is Mr Paluchov, who did not want wind farms so much? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u351	Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Coalition. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project concerns the transformation of hard coal mining in Poland and the financing of the effects of these processes, allowing the use of protective and social resources by workers of mines. My question: What about the workers who have worked in mines in the last two years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u353	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Rosa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u354	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A little bit of your speech sounded like this: it's gonna be okay. Somehow it's going to be a transformation, somehow it's going to be a notification in the Union, somehow it's going to be with mining regions, somehow it's going to be with mining companies. Minister, what's it gonna be like with these mining companies? What is the programme and plan for these companies around the hill, and mostly for their employees? PLN 2 billion was the loss of PGG for the previous year. I wanted to ask you: How do you estimate the losses for this year, especially since from the state budget, that is, all of us, we are going to pay for the current operation? And I ask for a reply from the speaker or in writing: Is it true that despite the agreements concluded, PGE has not received coal from PGG, and therefore they are judging in the Attorney General? What is the point of paying for the current operation when companies of the State Treasury do not receive coal from PGG. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u355	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u356	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This year the Council of Ministers adopted Poland's energy policy, which assumes that in 2030 the share of coal in energy production will not exceed 56% and the end of coal mining in Poland is not due to take place until 2049. This is a joke. Experts point out that we need to move completely away from coal by 2030, because that is the only way we can reduce global warming. The new IPCC report showed that we are in the midst of a disaster, the effects of which we see at every turn. Long-lasting droughts are killing Polish forests and agriculture, and extreme cloud damage has been seen this year, among others. in Poznań. The government acts like a firefighter who pretends not to see a fire. Its fine. You are trying to buy time, but the price for it is paid by Poles and Poles in growing electricity bills and young people who will have to live on the planet you are killing. Minister! We don't have time anymore and don't pretend you don't know that. One sentence. We need a fair transition for yesterday. Stop blocking RES, start taking scientists, protesting young people, people who... Thank you very much, sir. ...suffering from drought and flooding. Minister, when are we going to see a strategy to get away from coal? Mr Aleksander Mishalski... When are you going to show the shielding programs? ... The Civic Coalition. You're welcome. When will you stop burying your head in the sand? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u357	Ladies and gentlemen... Do you want me to invite you to drive? I invited Mr. Platform yesterday. Do you want to sit here, drive? If you don't, I'm asking for peace. You're welcome, Mr. Alexander Mishalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u358	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is clear that, due to climate protection and economic rationality, we must eliminate our mining. And it's a good thing that the bill proposes some kind of cover program for miners who should go through this dry process with their feet. But let me remind you that the mining restructuring programme started already in 1998. Even then it was understood that investment in coal energy has no future. But that didn't stop you from building, for example. for 1.5 billion power plants in Ostrołęka. Why did you spend so much money on her? Why build chimneys, all the infrastructure, then tear them down? Why didn't you listen to the experts then and waste our public money? Why didn't you put that money into some reasonable cover program by then? And finally, why did you lie to the miners for so many years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u359	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment aims to extend the possibility of reporting coal mines for decommissioning. In the explanatory memorandum you admit that coal mining in Poland is no longer profitable. You're bringing more and more coal from Russia. Why don't you listen to the experts? Four years ago, you adopted a law that virtually eliminates the possibility of creating new wind power plants in Poland. I already said it was a step in the wrong direction. The electricity prices are rising very quickly. Since January Poles can pay for electricity by up to 40% More. It's the energy policy of the PiS government. It is too late for you to conclude that energy needs to be removed from coal. You've wasted six years of your government. The Poles will pay for this. [[And you're eight years old.]] What about the proposed amendment to the Law on investment in the field of wind power plant (Dawn)? It was supposed to be accepted by the government in the second quarter, we have the end of the third quarter... Thank you very much. ...and the project is still in the drawer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u361	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Today we are talking about the restructuring of mines, the decommissioning of mines, the protective measures, various forms of aid for miners. And that's what you need to talk about, because it's very important. And I ask myself: Why doesn't the government present a proposal in parallel for the inhabitants of Silesia, for miners who want to continue working? What is the proposal for Silesia? Mine decommissioning, shielding. And then what? Where's the innovative economy? Where are the proposals for those miners who want to work and further develop? There are so many people living in Silesia. What's the perspective for them? Shielding? Social Services? Does the government have a Śląska development program in place of the mines that have been destroyed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u363	Thank you very much. I invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of State Assets, Minister Arthur Sobonia. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to maintain some balance, because I do not want to disappoint your marshal by dragging this time to the maximum, but at the same time I would like to answer all the questions. I'm going to start by saying that I want to thank all the wheels and clubs for working together on this bill, and I want to say right away, answering one of the questions that she's really expected by the miners. Of course, I can tell you what units it is. It's about the Hawk and the Peace Mine. I can also present to you a waste of time here, a precise calculation of what groups of employees will be included in this bill. It is not true, and Mr Gadowski knows that we are addicted to Russian coal. Nor is it true that Polish energy uses this Russian coal. It is not true that Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa is worth zero zloty, because if you look at the ratings from investors, an objective assessment of the Stock Exchange, it has increased by 180% over the last year, 108% Sorry, from less than PLN 15 per share to over PLN 50 per share. BBG's not on the stock exchange. As far as system solutions are concerned, we are in a situation where today we are updating one aid instrument - and that is exactly what the system solution is about. You can't do that in a single bill. The second act, like I said, we need to notify. Explanation for Mr Necessary: I smiled at Janusz Kowalski because we have a discrepancy here. I mean, both of them, and it rained here in many speeches, we agree - it would be absurd if someone admitted that it was different - that over 60 euros for the right to issue influences the price of electricity. On the other hand, we do not agree on the direction in which Polish energy should go. What I'm saying is that all the union centers and all the mining unions have signed a social contract. There are no better or worse relationships. There are no more or less responsible leaders of these unions. Today we are all responsible for the future of this very important - and historically, and now - sector of the Polish economy. Today we are fighting for our interests in the European Commission. I am also involved in this process of prenotification and finally carry out notifications. I can, of course, today - I have a board here - show what prices are like today, wholesale energy prices in the European Union. You also know that these prices in Poland today, although very high, as I said, are among the lowest in Europe. Two days ago it was 120 euros in Poland, but for example 143 euros in our southern or western neighbours. In Benelux countries - 145, Spain - 146... [[But how much they make.]] ...in Italy - 153, in France - 153, and in the UK - 416 euro! So this really is not a situation today, which is a Polish specific, and you know it very well. As for the big money, because I am going to answer specific questions, Mr Kasprzak asked - there is no Member - what money is involved. Since 2015, this is 4676 million per 17 units. Mr Suchoń asked about private mines. None of the private mines I know are in the process of liquidation today. Let me remind you that this instrument is not a voluntary exit programme, it is a cover support programme for workers whose mines are being liquidated. Coal was mined in Poland. Last year it was over 54 million tonnes of coal, so in this regard Mr Suchoń should first look at the statistics. PEP, in reply to Mr Żuk, is indeed a strategy until 2040, but it also shows what is planned after 40. I agree that this perspective is longer, although the time horizon has been defined in a way, I would say rational. Being recently relatively often in Silesia - I address Mrs Zielińska - otherwise I know what the word "ciulani" means. I want you to tell Mr. Marcin that the system from the very beginning, including today, is constructed in such a way that, if an employer is needed, the workplace is maintained. It is always with the consent of the director of the mine, with the consent of the company. That means that Mr. Marcin is simply needed in this company and we wish him long years of work. Where the consent of the employer will be given and the conditions for the use of the law will be met, the employees of this law will be able to benefit from it. To answer the questions and Mr Tomaszewski and Mr Nowak, I will explain that indeed brown coal will be present in the social agreement for electricity and lignite mining. On 1 September, we started a conversation with the social side in this area. I hope that in the coming months they will be concluded by reaching a common agreement and that we will be able to make it clear... I do not want to prejudice today how precisely these protective solutions for brown coal miners will look, but I can assure you that if they are statutory, they will of course be universal. If they are part of NABE, they will be in the form of support for those companies which are today companies of the Treasury. As for my promise to solve the ZUS issue, I'd like to keep it. In the coming days, weeks will be passed to you a draft law which will define it accordingly - so that the Social Security Office has no doubt. I reply to Mrs Malik, how the government is preparing for the European Commission's proposal, Fit for 55. We comprehensively assess the scale of this strategy's impact on the Polish market and the need to adapt Polish laws to it. Let me remind you that this is a proposal from the Commission so far, so we remain here in dialogue. I agree in one with Mr Gadowski - that the pathology is that the employee receives checks and returns to the sector, again as an employee. This should not be the case and we will discuss this in committee on the occasion of this law. We've prepared the right mechanisms. I do not agree with Mr Wieczorek, although I respect his experience in the field of energy, that it would be a good idea to include, let's call it, carbonate plants to the National Energy Safety Agency, i.e. de facto to the entity in which all coal-producing assets, hard coal mines, will be grouped together, and which will carry out its manufacturing activities - due to the specificities and type of public aid that we can mobilise. In my opinion, it will be more beneficial if it is a separate entity. Mining damages, I address Mr Happy, this is a total limit of over PLN 600 million, so please assure the residents that for this purpose there will be no shortage of funds from the state budget. Mr Matusiak asks me if I can count on the opposition. Although I would disappoint the Member, I would like to count on the opposition, and I would like us to adopt this law unanimously. But we'll see what happens. Indeed, very often, in particular in the European Parliament, we can only hope that the opposition closes its eyes to the market situation that is in Poland, because it is unfortunately different than in other European Union countries, because we still produce 3/4 of the energy from coal. I address Mrs Nykiel. I wouldn't want to step into the competence of other resorts either, but I can, of course, confirm that the climate ministry is working on solutions for vulnerable users. We want no citizen, a Pole who is in a difficult material situation, to feel the rise in energy prices. Of course, the Modernization Fund will allow the use of ETS funds, and the losses in the sector by mid-year are over PLN 1900 million. Mrs April asked me how coal imports should be regulated. Agreed, not only is it a question of the common market, because this is of course the border of the European Union and not only the border of Poland, but there is also the issue of the World Trade Organisation and other trade rules in which Poland is included, although this import is of course decreasing. Let me repeat: this is directed to heating and to individual customers, not to Polish energy. I would like you, at least here, not to repeat this in this House. Mrs Płępek asked me about the Silesian transformation programme. This is not the subject of the law today, but at the same time we are working on local and national plans for a fair transition. We want to implement projects that will support this transformation process. The Ministry of Development prepared, I prepared partly in the social contract together with the Industrial Development Agency a program for the mining industry. You can read the framework directions. On the other hand, the Ministry of Development prepares such a programme and agrees that it is of course necessary for us to talk about the whole sector, all the more so because the potential in the mining sector is a potential that I think can be used for energy, for example. the area or other projects which may be carried out by these companies. Mrs Krzywonos spoke about 2 years, year and so on. If the condition of the year of internship is met and the assets are liquidated, of course you can use this law. As for the Polish Energy Group and the Polish Mining Group - here I address Mrs Rosa - it is not so much a court as it is a good tool to work out an agreement. And such an agreement between PGE and PGG was developed just before the Attorney General. I find Mr Sterczewski's statement of 2030 irresponsible because it is completely separate from the social and energy security issues of Poland. On the other hand, it is completely untrue to suggest that we do not support renewable energy sources. The whole energy policy of the state is precisely that at the end of this period, which we have programmed, nuclear energy is the basis, and renewable energy sources are the main source of energy, which will be powered by Polish energy. Mrs Chmiel asked me about wind energy. This is part of the state's energy policy today. I think that as a Member of Pomerania, she particularly supports the success of wind energy in the Baltic, where there is enormous potential in this area, but agrees that onshore should also be part of the state's energy policy. The Ministry of Development's thoughts on solutions that would facilitate such investments. And I would like to say to Mrs Czernow, confirming that this is a parallel issue - and that is one time I have said this - the transformation of the region itself and the question of reducing coal production, because there are places where these effects of reducing coal production will be particularly social. Hence, there are chapters in the social agreement that point to future developments and certain instruments. Here the social side shows great responsibility by passing us a draft law on the Silesian Transformation Fund. Thank you, President Dominik Colorz, for preparing such a project. Today, as a government, we are working on this project so that this project can go to the High House as one of the support instruments that we are working on together as a social side, local governments, mining communities, organizations that support us in this area, and finally, I also hope, as a whole Chamber, because it is not a question of this or another political option, but it is a question of the future of the Polish state, the future of the Polish energy sector, and at the end of the future of building a competitive Polish economy, and I think it should be something that connects us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u365	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws contained in print 1503, to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and some other laws (Print No 1547). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski to present the justification for the bill. And thank you, Minister. Thank you so much for being here. Thank you very much. Goodbye. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u366	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The project provides for the implementation of e-invoices in Poland from January next year in voluntary form. How exactly will the e-invoice work? Invoices will be generated in the business accounting system and sent to counterparties via the Ministry's database. Both the supplier and the buyer will see an e-invoice in their free account in the National e-Factur System, which is our application. What does it look like in other countries of the European Union? E-invoice is a complete technological novelty. Poland will be the fourth country in the European Union to implement the e-invoice. In 2017, Italy implemented it, a year later it implemented Spain, in 2019 - Portugal. Thanks to the betting on technologies, thanks to the Big Data analyses that concern the trading of goods and flows between companies, the period of activities of tax offenders and, above all, the period associated with the detection of their activities by the State has been significantly reduced: from the few years we have seen before 2015 to only a few months. Now thanks to e-invoice we will analyze invoices not in the amplitude of time 1.5 months from the date of their issue, as it is now, but practically in real time. Is the e-invoice safe? We are in a very comfortable position because - although we are not a pioneer - we are not an experimenter. On the contrary, we are based on the experiences of other countries. During the process of creating new regulations, we were in contact with them and based directly on the technological regulations and solutions implemented in them. The main reference point for Polish regulations was the Italian solutions and the process followed by Italy in its contacts with the European Commission in connection with the need to confirm the safety of this tool and its implementation. New e-government services and new technologies are a key issue in the implementation of e-invoices. This is, you can say, a global trend, but certainly a trend visible in the European Union. France has just recognised the implementation of e-invoices as a sine qua non condition for maintaining a low level of VAT gap, in Poland it wants to implement e-invoices in a voluntary formula from January next year. We want the e-invoice to start working as of 2023. Yes, France is two more years behind us. Germany is just debating the implementation of this solution. The German equivalent of NIK recommended the implementation of e-invoices in the Federal Republic of Germany. Germany, if they implement it, it's more like a five-year perspective. So we're half a decade ahead of our Western neighbours. E-invoice is a very good tool for sealing the tax system for the National Tax Administration, but above all it introduces a very large simplification in the field of business activities. One might ask what exactly the e-invoice provides for companies. First of all, and most importantly, it's safe. The invoice issued in the Entrepreneur's system, sent and recorded in the Ministry of Finance system will remain in the MF database, so the Entrepreneur will not have to store it himself. The invoice will never be destroyed, it will not be lost, there will be no need to issue duplicates, and you will not have to wait for confirmation of receipt of the invoice by the counterparty, because both parties of the transaction will immediately see it in the system. Secondly, it provides comfort. Now each invoice looks different, the key information for companies is contained in different locations. The e-invoice will be a structured document. What does that mean? This means it will be very comfortable, because it will always have the same format. You will not have to look on the invoice of important data, e.g. commodity prices or the VAT rates, because always the information will be in the same place. Finally, it allows for a faster return of VAT. Using the e-invoice will allow you to obtain a VAT refund more quickly. Thanks to e-invoice, the entrepreneur is transparent, becomes a trusted taxpayer, and that is why we want him to start treating him like that right away. Taxpayers who choose an e-invoice will receive a refund of VAT within a period of 1/3 shorter than the statutory provisions. The deadline will therefore be reduced by 20 days, not 60 days, but 40 days. In view of the above, I kindly ask the High House to accept the project and give it a further run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u367	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Sylvester Tulayev, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws contained in print No 1547. The club's position is as positive as possible. The bill is very much needed, which I deeply believe. Reading into the provisions of this law, we see that this is a continuation of good changes. What was adopted in 2015, as announced by Prime Minister Beata Szydło in 2015 regarding the fact that we are sealing the tax system, simplifying its rules, was consistently implemented by Prime Minister Beata Szydło and today very effectively implemented by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Indeed, we are dealing with simplifications and, above all, with the sealing of the VAT system. The proposed bill provides for the introduction of the National e-Factur System. The proposed solutions are aimed, as I mentioned, at further simplifying the tax system for taxable persons for goods and services. The amendments introduced concern the simplification of the billing system, including a reduction in the number of elements contained in the invoice, advance invoices and the optional use of duplicate invoices. KSeF is an IT system under which they will, of course, apply, with certain exceptions, the current rules for issuing invoices. Receiving invoices structured using KSeF will require acceptance of the recipient of such an invoice. The consent should be given on an identical basis as in the case of electronic invoices. The system will not support the acceptance process of the buyer as to how to receive structured invoices. The proposed solution and the provisions contained in this Act are aimed, once again, at sealing the tax system. At the same time, they are designed to reduce irregularities in VAT clearance and to improve the conditions for taxable persons' business by easier and much faster access to documents. The introduction of an electronic, standardised invoice formula should lead to increased safety of commercial transactions. The ability to automate accounting processes will significantly reduce the number of errors caused by the human factor. This draft also includes an amendment to the Article. 25 of the Law of 30 March 2021 amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act and certain other laws. This is primarily aimed at extending the vacathio legis from 6 to 10 months. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I ask you to accept the provisions of this law, support these solutions and vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u369	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u370	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the act on value added tax and certain other laws. I'm gonna start by taking a little historical look at what you're proposing today. I would like to remind you that in 2015 work on the Central Register of Invoices was started in the Ministry of Finance, still under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL. We thought that the introduction of a single control file, and we introduced it, was an important but insufficient instrument to combat tax fraud, not only VAT, by the way, but also income taxes, where the gap was not smaller than VAT. In May 2015, the Central Register of Invoices was ready to set up: the introduction of an obligation of electronic invoices, the authentication of each invoice on the MF server - on the market only certified invoices - and the ongoing monitoring of all transactions. Those were the initial assumptions. In December 2015, after the change of power in Poland, the Minister of Finance declared the continuation of this project and the introduction of the Central Register of Invoices by the end of 2016. It's 2021, and it's a little bit more modest than the formula that was announced at the time. In March 2016, the Council adopted PiS established the company Critical Applications, whose main task was to create this Central Register of Invoices. The rush in her appointment was due to an estimate of the benefits that this Central Register of Invoices would bring. This was supposed to be PLN 3 billion a month, PLN 36 billion a year. And that amount was, by the way, repeated several times by the finance minister and his representatives. For two years, still in 2017, you claimed that the work was ongoing. Then you changed the rhetoric a little bit and found that the work was ongoing, but the Central Registry of Invoices is based on JPK, that the sufficient source of information to type suspicious transactions is this invoice register based on JPK. I said it was an invoice museum, not an online invoice register. Incidentally, I wonder how much you spent over the last five years, how much you spent on this task, i.e. construction of the Central Register of Invoices, company AK. As for this project, it is in fact a return to these proposals six years ago. I'm not gonna ask you what you've done in the last six years. In fact, as I read the justification for this project, you agree with me in this discussion that has been going on over the last few years, because you clearly write that it allows us to analyze economic events even before the deadline for submitting tax returns. You admit that you actually had an invoice museum, not an invoice register. The analytical processes related to the combination of payments by invoice will be improved, making it possible to make optimal use of solutions related to the application of measures to secure budget claims. Incidentally, I have also spoken many times during the parliamentary debates about the fact that the link between the Central Register of Invoices and STIR is a gigantic possibility when it comes to reducing VAT fraud. On the other hand, what I would like to say is that I am concerned about this momentum, in the quotes that you assume when it comes to implementing this project. Optional participation and only 10% participation of entrepreneurs in this project in the first year. This is mainly due to the lack of attractiveness of this project, because if you really want to implement it, you have to take care of its attractiveness (the bell), if this optional form is to be introduced. It's a question of this 40-day payback date. This is ridiculous. Today we have a 25-day deadline, and in New Deal you propose even a 15-day return date, although with ten conditions, it would probably have to be verified a little bit. This deadline needs to be shortened, and I have no doubt about it. In addition, quota limits, issuing invoices to foreign entities, corrective notes, blocking for such solutions. These are solutions that need to be improved in this project, so that this project is alive and dynamically developing, because it is in the interest of Polish public finances. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u371	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Trela, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u372	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present the direction and preliminary position of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left as regards the government draft law amending the Act on the Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws, print No 1547. This proposal proposes amendments to the Act of 11 March 2004 on VAT on goods and services, hereinafter referred to as the VAT Act, as regards the introduction of the National e-Factur System and solutions aimed at further simplifying the taxation of goods and services by taxable persons. These changes concern simplifications in the issuing of corrective invoices, including a reduction in the number of elements of such invoices, advance invoices and the optional use of duplicate invoices. The draft also provides for amendments to the Act of 29 August 1997 - Tax Order and the Act of 16 November 2016 on National Tax Administration. The solution introduced, the National e-Factur System, is optional. The proposed law regulates the possibility of issuing invoices structured as one of the authorised forms of documenting transactions alongside paper invoices and current electronic invoices. The solution adopted will allow the issuer of invoices to exercise the right to tax preferences provided for in this draft law - i.e. The 40-day tax refund deadline and the settlement of the in-minus adjustment for the period of issue of the correction invoice - also in the absence of the consent of the recipient of the structured invoice to receive it in the National e-Factur System. In addition, the National e-Factur System will not be able to issue invoices for which separate provisions provide for a lack of obligation to include the number by which the seller is identified for tax purposes or data enabling the buyer to be identified unambiguously. Similarly, the term "pro forma invoice' is customary and does not appear in the provisions of the VAT Act. The issuing of a pro forma invoice does not have any effect on VAT, i.e. the obligation to pay the tax shown in this document, nor does it constitute a basis for the counterparty to deduct the VAT shown in that document. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the Left Coalition Parliamentary Club expresses its willingness and willingness to work on this document. This is the first reading of this project. The project has been addressed, it will be addressed to the finance committee. There are specific questions to be asked. Perhaps this project should be clarified or detailed. However, undoubtedly the introduction of such an e-invoice system is a step in the right direction. I am, of course, concerned when I hear that the Minister is saying that we are one of the precursors, whether you will be able to deal with the introduction of this system, whether it will operate from 1 January. But I hope that our doubts will be resolved to some extent in the finance committee. Because when I hear the Minister say that such a great savior for sealing the VAT system was Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who is not Prime Minister, and who is not aware of the reasons for her resignation, and when I recall how the Minister here a few months ago was unable to answer the question of how much we really did the VAT tax on the VAT mafia get out, I have doubts whether the words you have said today are appropriate to this project that you have prepared and presented. Nevertheless, you need to be given a directional opportunity and work on this project at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances. And it is on behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left that I declare. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u373	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz from the Confederate circle. Come on in. [[Isn't Mr. Pasha first?]] Mr Paszyk made a written statement, which was welcomed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u374	I am pleased that there are such debates as the one where you can see that all the main parties of this Sejm do not differ from each other. Only the Confederation stands on the taxpayer's side, and here we just have four greedy hyenas arguing only about who first came up with this idea to better pluck the taxpayer, who better to do it, who would do it more effectively. The reason for this is that the government wants to know everything about what is happening in the economy. And I just don't want you to know everything. The gray area is the healthiest part of the economy. Gray and black zone is what saves us from your greedy hands. These are the holes in that commercial you're putting on our neck so we can still breathe, because in many situations, your greed and your overregulation would make it impossible to live in a country like this. But you notoriously want to reap where you haven't sown, you want to reap where you haven't scattered. And that's what it's all about. The fact that you want to know about all transactions in the economy is because you want to make a commission from them. And what gives you the right to take a commission from someone selling something to someone? Why does the government even claim the right, some strangers in Warsaw believe that they have a right to a commission from someone selling something to someone or doing something for someone? Keep your hands in your pockets, look everyone in your plate, stop being greedy hyenas. We're building Big Brother's land like this. The government is trying to know everything about everyone just to get as much money out of us as possible. Here the Member from the Platform was worried that if we had introduced it, 3 billion PLN more could have been drawn from taxpayers. No 3 billion more for you is 3 billion less for us, for citizens, for taxpayers. That's the money you lost on your stupid projects, your handout, your overeating. No, it's not 3 billion, more, it's a much bigger loss, because apart from what we're taking from people directly, we're destroying the motivation to work in them, many people just stop paying to do the things they do, because you want to have a commission from it, you want to collect money from everything. So that I repeat my appeal, which I already said here yesterday: everyone look in your plate, keep your hands in your pockets, and keep your hands off the taxpayers' money. Long live the gray zone.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u375	That was interesting, I'll be honest. Thank you, sir. [[Where's it coming from for Braun's salary?]] Mr Mirosław Suchoń, I invite you, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u376	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the governmental draft law amending the Act on the Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws included in the print no. 1547. High Izbo! The draft law introduces the possibility of issuing structured invoices as one of the acceptable forms of documenting transactions alongside traditional, paper and current electronic invoices. These invoices will be structured and received via the IT system, the National e-Factur System. The proposed solution is to be optional in accordance with the provisions of the Act. Of course, it could be said that this is a solution, which is like the next stage of computerization in the field of documenting economic turnover and it is somehow moving forward the issue of sealing the system, but of course this solution also has some drawbacks that are worth remembering. Firstly, the efficiency of this system, the reliability of the system will be linked to how this system, colloquially speaking, will be handled by officials of the Ministry of Finance. From our experience in implementing other systems, the experience of the economy shows that it is unfortunately not 100% reliable and generates some problems. And here the question to the ministry, the legitimate question is exactly what the efficiency of this system will be, because it directly affects the ability of the company to operate in the economy. Of course, due to the implementation of this system and the philosophy it presents, probably in many organizations there will be a need to change processes, and this will generate quite a large volume of internal work to carry out precisely the change of these procedures. It is also a question of integration, i.e. the costs that will have to be incurred in adapting the systems to those requirements which the Ministry presents. And summa summarum this benefit, let's say, isn't very stunning, because it's just a short return of VAT to 40 days. It's not something that would in some way stun this direction. We therefore request that the project be transferred to the committee and we will continue to work on it, and here we will try to reach an agreement with the Ministry on these benefits for companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u377	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. I'm gonna ask for the same thing I did at the previous point because we made up our time, and thank you very much. There are eight people to ask questions. If anyone else wants to sign up, you're welcome to sign up right now. If not, I'm closing this list. I'm gonna set the time for a minute, and I'm gonna keep an eye on it. And I will ask the Minister very kindly: if you can do it a little less, we will be very pleased because we have a vote and we would like the last people from the Sejm not to leave at 1 a.m. Please, Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We talk a lot about this bill, about sealing the tax system. Today, it is worth mentioning these figures again. Minister! I ask you to remind me how much money for leaky VAT did not go to the state budget and important investments could not be implemented, important social programs could not be implemented, as it was in the days of the Civic Platform, as it was in the times of the Polish People's Party. I would also like to ask about the exact numbers of the rule of law and justice and those effective actions taken by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. How much money have we recovered from VAT sealing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u379	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition. Is it? There isn't. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. There isn't any either. Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. [[There it is.]] You're welcome. Jan, it's so good to have you with us. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u380	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, I kindly ask the Minister to answer in writing: What was the purpose of all the recent changes in this tax? Why did Polish taxpayers implement hundreds of millions of zlotys and several times modify the mechanisms used to create JPK files? Why, for example, in the previous year, were changes in the submission of VAT returns that were combined with JPK files forced to be made? For what purpose was the remote transmission of invoices to tax offices carried out in a huge amount of costs? This shows chaos in Polish legislation and lack of any concept for creating a healthy clearing system. I count on it, Minister, to receive an exhaustive written answer to my questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u381	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u382	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to congratulate you on this idea. This is a very good step on the road to digitization of further aspects, further elements of public life. I wanted to ask the question: will the system that you are planning to create honor all ways of confirming identity contained in the regulation of the European Parliament setting out the electronic confirmation of identity, so-called. the eIDAS Regulation? I mean electronic signature, qualified electronic signature, trusted profile. Will this system identify itself with such confirmations? Since I have 18 seconds left, I also wanted to address the question to your marshal: When will it be possible to enter electronic correspondence with the Sejm Chancellery in such a way that the other party also responds electronically to the questions asked and the letters sent? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u383	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I am always happy to welcome any project that would make life easier not only for entrepreneurs but for citizens at all. All the more so because we are very late when it comes to digitalisation, against the background of Europe. The Seym itself is the best example of this. I was a pioneer in this regard. I just wanted to file a trusted report through the profile, and it turned out that the IT guys who worked it didn't know what I was talking about. But they did, they learned. [[The voice from the hall: something like that.]] Please? Something like that. [[Game in the O.R.]] You see, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna have trouble finishing up on time. I've got some bad luck. [[Voice from the room: Excuse me.]] Thank you very much. Something like the Sejm's IT guys don't know what ePUAP is, which was announced on your Marshal's website. You bet your ass it is. On the other hand, I have experience in how you implement different types of IT systems in the judicial dimension. Each subsequent system is another problem of the actors who have to handle it. And in connection with these experiences, I have a specific question (The Bell): What is the work on this system today? Because we have three months until the bill comes into force. What did some kind of, I don't know, implementation tests look like? What was the practical consultation like? So how and what do you want to convince those stakeholders to use this system to participate in a system they don't know? That's why I'm asking for consultations and your predictions in this respect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u385	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Gaża, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u386	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Two sides win in this solution: an entrepreneur who has a facilitated activation of his documents, and a country that is gaining employment in the Tax Chamber. But that's not all. Those who unfairly issue invoices that are not covered by other means lose. Therefore, Minister, I ask: Where is the next step? Will it be possible to issue invoices using an app on your phone on your computer only and only using the software you propose? What's the next step to inform the invoice circuit? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u387	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u388	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll start with something a little different. As I am close to the pharmaceutical market and the pharmacies market, I will remind you that Poland has introduced e-prescriptions as one of the first countries. Our European partners like Germany, the French pay attention to the exemplary mode and speed of introducing this service in Polish pharmacies. The e-prescription has simply become common in Polish pharmacy. Now it's time for the e-invoices. I heard from the Minister: we are back in the European vanguard for e-services. Since 2015 fiscal policy of the Government of Law and Justice has been based on sealing and simplifying fiscal policies. Hence my question: How will the e-invoice affect the limitation (the bell) of the activities of tax fraudsters specializing in VAT extortion, who in the days of the Civic Platform and PSL had an eldorado? How will the e-invoice contribute to simplifying business activity? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u389	Thank you very much, sir. Although the club did not report you, but we are good people, I invite you to speak with me, my fellow Member. Mrs. Zofia Czernow. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u390	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! National e-invoice system, structured invoice and technological novelty, as the Minister said. The main objective from the taxpayer's point of view is to accelerate VAT reimbursement to 40 days. But this system also simplifies procedures and brings many benefits to the Ministry of Finance as a tax financial institution. At first I thought that these were new solutions, new technologies, but when I looked at the results of the consultation, which are included in the explanatory memorandum, I pointed out the raised reservations. My question is just for the Minister. Why are so strict requirements for a structured invoice to give 40 days (the bell) when you can already have 25 days today, Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u391	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'd like to invite the Minister. Minister, you're welcome. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Minister Jan Sarnowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u392	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will start by asking about the security of the system and preparing entrepreneurs. The project was consulted with them as early as February last year. In February and March, consultations were ongoing. Indeed, many comments were received by the Ministry of Finance and they were also taken into account during the next months of work on the project. In August, the invoice scheme was made available to entrepreneurs. Since October, i.e. almost two weeks from now, tests will begin with entrepreneurs concerning the transmission of invoices and the transparency of the system. As of January, regulations will be introduced to allow the optional transmission of invoices and this functionality will also be opened. Since January 2023, i.e. after 12 months of voluntary operation of this solution, this will become a mandatory solution for all market players. It is also a procedure which results from consultations with the European Commission, which also recommends voluntary piloting and subsequently widespread implementation. Exactly the same way this project was carried out in Italy, which also first bet on voluntaryity and at least one year of piloting directly with entrepreneurs. So this is where we're going through the pavement. We are in current technical contact with the countries that have already implemented this solution, and with the European Commission, with which legal regulations and technical issues are also consulted. As far as authorisation is concerned, here we provide for broad forms of authorisation, both a trusted profile and a qualified signature or a qualified stamp. With regard to the purpose of e-invoice, I would like to stress that the most important thing is not 40 days to return. The most important issue is the comfort and security of the taxpayer and, above all, the speed of trading. Quick access to information that the invoice was received by the other party, that it was accepted, and, finally, the security against VAT carousels and this danger that still threatens taxpayers, namely being dragged into criminal activity by entities that are merely pretending to be entrepreneurs, and in fact turn goods only on paper. With regard to the question of sealing the tax system, once again I would like to stress that in the last 5 years the VAT gap has decreased in Poland as soon as possible in the European Union. She fell almost three times from 25%. in 2015 to just over 9% in 2019. Let us remember that in 2015 25% of the VAT gap meant that every fourth of the zloty, which should be paid by VAT-people to the state budget, was either in the grey zone or in the pocket of the VAT-based mafia. In 2019 it was already every 10 zlotys. On the other hand, we also noticed a very interesting pattern. In the pandemic year 2020, despite the closure of the economy, despite the difficulties in the operation of tax offices and the National Tax Administration, the VAT gap has decreased again. According to CASE data, the report prepared for the European Commission decreased year to year 1/5 to 8.2% , i.e. 1/4 lower than the EU average, twice lower than the VAT gap in Slovakia, four times smaller than e.g. Romania. According to the calculations of the Ministry of Finance, the state budget gains about PLN 25 billion each year on VAT sealing. These are measures that wouldn't have been budgeted otherwise if it hadn't been for sealing tools to fight tax mobs. It is also 25 billion PLN, it is huge money that would go into the pockets of criminals as a result of VAT fraud, if not for the steps taken in recent years by the Ministry of Finance. You could ask yourself how this success has been achieved. Here you spoke very much about the 2015 plans, but what else are the plans, and what else is the implementation. We are talking about very concrete steps here. Poland is the first country of the European Union to implement a very coherent plan to fight tax crime. The plan actually consists of four basic steps and four functionalities. Firstly, it is now more difficult to organise tax merry-go-rounds, VAT fraud. It is practically not possible to register at the office of the company a post office, a company with only and only a mailbox, because each application is verified by the tax administration on the spot and by telephone. Secondly, the duration of the VAT carousel is getting shorter. Minister, let me remind you that we're talking about invoices. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: The company artificially rotates invoices not for several years, but for a few months at most, and after the implementation of the e-invoice it will only be a few weeks. In conclusion, the e-invoice will lead to the fact that the analyst carried out in the Ministry of Finance will rapidly accelerate again. Just as the revolution was the implementation of the analysis of JPK files, and not just collecting them - this has allowed us to accelerate the detection of VAT carousels from years to months, and that is a few months, not a dozen - so now by analysing invoices, we will be able to detect tax offenders on an ongoing basis in just a few weeks. The result will be that we will still be able to reduce the VAT gap. As is now the VAT gap - according to preliminary figures for 2020 - about 8.2% , so in the next 3 or 4 years we will be able to reach the level of France, i.e. one of the leaders of the fair VAT system in the European Union, namely the level of 5%. If I haven't answered any of the questions, we'll answer them in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u393	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u394	I have the honour to present on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club our position on the government draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws, print No 1547. This draft law concerns the introduction of the National e-Factur System, KSeF, and solutions aimed at simplifying tax treatment for goods and services by taxpayers. These changes concern simplifications in the issuing of corrective invoices, including a reduction in the number of elements of such invoices, advance invoices and the optional use of duplicate invoices. The solutions will contribute to strengthening checks on the regularity of VAT clearance and simplifying the billing process for traders by remote monitoring of the turnover of invoices by tax authorities and will enable the revenue of the State budget to be increased as a result of the assumed increase in VAT collection at each stage of trade in goods and services to be increased. The e-invoice will be voluntary at first and will become mandatory from 2023. High Izbo! The implementation of e-invoices is another example of the digitalisation of fiscal services. It will have two very positive effects on the Polish economy. Firstly, it will make it much easier to account for business-to-business transactions. Secondly, it will speed up the detection of attempts to extort tax, thereby increasing the security of honest companies and reducing the VAT gap. You cannot ignore the advantages of the proposed solutions, such as: speed - taxpayers choosing an e-invoice will receive a refund of VAT in a period of 1/3 shorter, the return date will be reduced for them by 20 days, from 60 days to 40 days; security - invoice will remain in the MF database and will never be destroyed or lost, there will be no need to issue duplicates; acceleration of turnover - thanks to operation through the Ministry base we will always be sure that the invoice has been delivered to the contractor; convenience - e-invoices will be issued according to a single pattern, so that it will be very easy to use; standardisation - mutual settlement and booking of invoices in FK systems will become much easier; less obligations - the taxpayer will not have to store invoices issued in KSeF because they will be kept by the administration for a period of 10 years, and thus as a rule in the period during which most tax obligations are made a statute; less data to be sent - the taxpayer issuing invoices in KSeF will not have to send invoices to the tax authorities on demand of the Single Control File structure for invoices, JPK FA. These data will be available to tax authorities in KSeF and therefore their additional transmission would not be justified. E-invoice is a lot of business benefits. This is not only a quicker refund of VAT, but also an acceleration and standardization of the invoicing process proposed by entrepreneurs. In addition, it is the elimination of many tax obligations, including in particular the need for the taxpayer to store invoices and make them available when checking or transferring the bodies of the JPK FA structure on request. Poland is the fourth country in the European Union to introduce an e-invoice. Spain, Portugal and Italy have introduced such a solution, France has set a deadline for 2023. Polish regulations were mainly based on the Italian model, where e-invoices were made available already in 2017, and after a transitional period it is mandatory since 2019. The objectives of introducing e-invoices are legitimate, but it is hard to resist the impression that e-invoices will be another tool of the Ministry of Finance to control tax settlements. Tax authorities will have more accurate information on the circulation of invoices in the economy, and this brings many unknowns. It is therefore impossible, High Izbo, not to ask questions on matters that experts report indicating doubts about the project: How will data be transferred between the Central National e-Factur System, KSeF and taxpayers' billing systems? Who will be responsible for archiving documents and possible loss of documents? Who will be responsible for the technical problems of the system or for the mistakes of people issuing invoices? In addition, e-invoicers will have to use an IT system that they do not have control over, e.g. They can't protect him from data leaks or hacker attacks on their own. This, too, is an important problem that should sound in committee work. High Izbo! On behalf of the Koalicja Polska Club, I request further work on this draft law in the parliamentary committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u395	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm should refer the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and certain other laws contained in print No 1547 to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, at the hour. 18.25 Senior Convention. Okay, we're adjourned until 6:30. Keep that in mind, because there will be votes. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 12 h 18 min 35]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is September 17th. The date, which for us Poles, is very painful. 1 September 1939 Germany started World War II by attacking Poland. On September 17th, the Red Army entered the east, punching us in the back. We weren't able to fight two enemies at the same time, but we did. It lasted long, not only until the end of the war, but also several decades later. Victims of the Soviet assault of September 17, 1939 suffered not only persecution, death, but also on inhuman soil. It's also Sibirak's World Day today. Let us celebrate the silence of the memory of all those who, as a result of this aggression, suffered losses on Poland, including above all the victim of life. [[A moment of silence]] [[Voice from the hall: Eternal rest give them, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Voice from the hall: Eternal rest give them, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Voice from the hall: Eternal rest give them, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] Thank you very much. At its 36th meeting, the Sejm did not vote on: - Information from the Minister of Health on the organisation of the National Vaccination Programme with an increased number of vaccine supplies and information on the use of doses, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the final wording of the National Reconstruction Plan, including public consultations and proposals from the European Commission. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering these votes. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 1577. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Law on the remuneration of managers of state positions and certain other laws, - amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, - amending the Payment Services Act, - amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws, - amending the Law on specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and crisis situations. The reports shall be printed in no. 1574, 1581, 1575, 1554 and 1542 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. I propose that, in cases relating to prints No 1574, 1581, 1575 and 1554, the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible submitted a report on the parliamentary draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the death of Jarogniew Drwaski, President of Poznań in 1919 and 1921, print No 1583. May I ask your fellow Members on the right to calm down the talks? Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the death of Jarogniew Drwaski President of Poznań in 1919 and 1921 (prints No 1573 and 1583). Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka. Ladies and gentlemen, I will absolutely respect the order that I myself have signed. Anyone who doesn't have a medical discharge - and I know who they have and who doesn't - I'm asking you to wear masks. Let's respect each other, ladies and gentlemen, everyone. Mrs Siarkowska, I ask you very much to put on a mask. [[Applause]] [[Rapporteur Mirosław Stachowiak-Rózecka: Marshal, and on the speaker, can I not?]] We could, of course, be without a mask on the platform. That's what I said at the last session of the Sejm. [[Ms Anna Maria Siarkowska leaves the room, a stir in the room, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[Voice from the room: These are anti-vaccines.]] [[Voice from the room: So there is no majority.]] Please, Mrs Mirosław Stachowiak-Różecka. [[Rapporteur Mirosław Stachowiak-Rózecka: Report or the whole project?]] So is the draft resolution. [[Rapporteur Mirosław Stachowiak-Różecka: Read the whole project? Do you want me to read it?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u396	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you the report of the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the death of Jarogniew Drwaski, President of Poznań in 1919 and 1921, print No 1573. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 40... Excuse me, Member. The State of the Confederation, either you put on your masks or I'll ask you to leave the room. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Let's really not play dickhead, 'cause this is ridiculous. I know you can't, all right, but the other gentlemen don't have medical leave. You're welcome, my fellow Member. On 15 September 2021, the Marshal addressed this draft resolution to the Committee on Culture and Media for first reading. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering this draft resolution at its meeting on 17 September 2021, adds: The High Sejm shall adopt the attached draft resolution. If you don't mind, I'll read it. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm of 17 September 2021 on the celebration of Jarogniew Drwaski - President of Poznań in 1919 and 1921 on the 100th anniversary of death. On 14 September 2021 the 100th anniversary of the death of Jarogniew Drwaski - a lawyer, social activist, swordsman of the idea of independence of Poland and Polishness of Wielkopolska, the first Polish president of Poznań during the Second Polish Republic. Jarogniew Drzęski, born on December 6, 1875 in Glinno near Wągrowiec in the land family, has been associated with Poznan his whole life. He was a graduate of the Poznań Junior High School. Mary Magdalene. After law studies in Berlin, he opened a law firm in Poznań. It belonged to the last generation of great organics. He was the President of the Association of Legal and Economics in Poznań and the Association of Singing Circles, as well as co-founded Polish sports organizations in Wielkopolska. He was politically involved, he was a member of the conservative National Union, he was on the benches of the Poznań City Council. During World War I he was one of the organizers of secret civil committees which prepared a plan to take over power in Wielkopolska by Poles. After the outbreak of the revolution in Germany in November 1918, Polish environments moved Jarogniew Drwaski to the position of the commissar's chief mayor of Poznań. After the outbreak of the Wielkopolska Uprising and the mastery of Wielkopolska by the insurgents Jarogniew Drzewski was elected president of the city of Poznań in elections to local authorities. As the President of Poznań Jarogniew Drzewski, he deserved especially in the fields of effective approximation of the city and the organisation of public works in order to counter unemployment and at the same time to colonise administration. Jarogniew Drwaski's great contribution was to support the initiative of establishing the University of Poznań in May 1919. He was at the head of the committee, which organized the I Targ Poznański - an undertaking that eventually turned into the International Poznań Fair. The nationwide recognition was that he was elected President of the Polish Towns Association in 1920. The hard work for Poland and Poznań has marked President Drewski's health. He died on 14 September 1921 in Poznań when he was less than 46 years old. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the 100th anniversary of the death of President Jarogniew Drzewski pays tribute to him and believes that he has served Poland well with his long-term work in favour of Polishness Wielkopolska. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u397	High Izbo! I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of Jarogniew Drwaski - President of Poznań in 1919 and 1921 on the 100th anniversary of death by acclamation. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Coalition, made a formal request. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u398	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition shall ask for an adjournment by tomorrow at noon. 9 a.m., with an appeal to extend the agenda for the appearance of Judge Julia Przyłębska. The judge should explain himself not only to the Sejm, but above all to the Poles from his participation in a completely unlawful, totally political procedure aimed at appointing specific persons to the Supreme Court. [[Applause]] Recently disclosed in the so-called. The e-mails from Minister Dworczyk's mailbox have once again shown what a pathological system you created at the top of your power. Prime Minister Morawiecki, Judge Przyłębska and employees of the President's Office without shame, without a shadow of shame, consult openly with the Supreme Court. Thank you very much, sir. The fiction of the Constitutional Tribunal... Thank you very much, sir. ...has been confirmed. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] [[Voice from the room: But this is a formal conclusion, not a statement.]] Mrs. Marshal! I urge you to fulfil your role as a second person in the state, not cover yours and allow... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u399	Mr President, we will not change the agenda. This does not fall within the scope of the formal application, except for the request for a break. We will vote on this proposal, sir. As a request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] And in a minute, the country that's still playing cat and mouse with me... I asked you to check who the Members are. I'll have you out of the meeting in a moment. [[Applause]] [[She's limping, put it on.]] [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] If I am able to read the vote for 2 hours, and sometimes for 4 for 5 hours, in one mask - it is really difficult for me - you can stand it too. Let us respect each other, first of all respect those who are afraid. [[Applause]] They also deserve respect and consideration. And if anyone doesn't like it, he doesn't have to sit here in the courtroom, he has a choice. [[Let's respect the law first.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: On your nose.]] Mr Krystian Kaminski, put on a mask. [[Your marshal, since you're in a mess at your office and he doesn't know I delivered your release, apologize. Please apologize.]] [[Voice from the room: Apologize.]] Okay, if you did deliver, that's fine. It's okay. That's what you should have said. [[Voice from the room: Apologize.]] I'm not gonna apologize for anything. [[Applause]] [[Enough. Marshal, please apologize.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: It's unbelievable.]] Yes, Mr Krystian Kaminski is on the list, indeed. As a request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 200 for, 239 against, five stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the urgent draft act on compensation for service providers or economic operators in connection with the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of the Podlaskie Voivodship and part of the Lublin Voivodeship in 2021. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1552-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Commission! I present an additional report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development with an urgent government bill on compensation for entities providing services or conducting economic activities in connection with the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of the Podlaskie Voivodship and part of the Lublin Voivodship in 2021, print No 1533. [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] At its 37th meeting on 15 September 2021, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1552 to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 16 September 2021, asks: nine amendments have been tabled, eight amendments have been accepted by the Committee and one amendment has been rejected, and this proposal is presented to the High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u401	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1552. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment, the applicants propose in Article. 1 after paragraph 1. 2 plus paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of the first amendment? We're gonna have to wait a while, 'cause we're gonna... Yes. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 217 - for, 227 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. Article 4 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 217 - for, 227 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 217-- for, 228-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 2 (2) 1 applicants propose to change the amount of compensation from 65% to 100%. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render the 5th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 216 - for, 228 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 2 (2) 1 applicants propose to change the amount of compensation from 65% to 80%. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 218 - for, 228 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 4 applicants propose to shorten the deadline for a compensation decision from 14 to 7 days. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 217-- for, 228-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. The applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph 3. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 171 - for, 274 - against, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The adoption of this amendment will result in the nullity of the 9th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 208 - for, 228 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, they propose to delete point 2 of Article. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 47 for, 398 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1552, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 445 - for, no one was against, no one held back. [[Applause]] [[Well, well, well. Everybody.]] The Sejm passed a Compensation Act for entities providing services or conducting business activities in connection with the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of the Podlaskie Voivodeship and part of the Lublin Voivodeship in 2021. We are returning to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Law on State aid in raising children and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1561-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Teresa Glenc to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u402	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on State Aid in Raising Children and some other laws, print No. 1530. The Sejm at its 37th meeting on 16 September, in accordance with the Rule. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1561 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the amendments at its meeting today, requests that all amendments be rejected and that the draft be fully supported. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u403	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1561. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 5 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the State aid law for raising children. In the first amendment to Article. 2 applicants propose not to repeal point 11. The consequences of the adoption of this amendment will be the corresponding amendments to the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 2. to 8. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 1, with the consequence, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 169 for, 227 against, 48 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 2 applicants propose not to repeal point 11. The consequences of the adoption of this amendment will be the corresponding amendments to the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 3 to 6. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 2, with the consequence, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 171 for, 227 against, 48 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 2 applicants propose not to repeal point 11. The consequences of the adoption of this amendment will be the corresponding amendments to the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of the amendments from 4 to 8. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 3, with the consequence, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 168 - for, 228 - against, 48 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 applicants propose a different wording of the introduction into the calculation. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 5. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 213 - for, 226 - against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 applicants propose an amendment to the calculation. The consequences of the adoption of this amendment will be the corresponding amendments to the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 5, along with the consequences, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 217 - for, 228 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 16 draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 217 - for, 228 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 26. The consequences of the adoption of this amendment will be the corresponding amendments to the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 8. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 7, along with the consequences, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 216 - for, 226 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 26. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 215 for, 229 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1561 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 236 - for, 161 - against, abstained 49. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on State aid to raise children and certain other laws. We would like to return to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law on the support of local government units in connection with the Polish Ład Programme. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1576-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Ławniczak to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit an additional report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law on the support of local government units in connection with the Polish Load Programme. This is print 1531, except that the law's title has changed in print 1576. At the moment, this law is called the Act amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units and amending other laws. At its 37th meeting on 16 September 2021, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1576 to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. After considering six amendments, the Public Finance and Local Government Commissions ask the High Sejm to reject all the amendments and to approve the whole of the Act annexed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u405	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1576. The committees present minority proposals and the additional report on amendments that we will be voting on first. Minority requests 1 to 3 and amendments 1 to 3 tabled in Article. 1 draft law containing amendments to the law on the income of local government units. In the first amendment, applicants propose that in Article. 1 of the project before point 1 add new points and changes to point 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of minority proposals 1 and 2 and Amendment 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 218 - for, 227 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the first minority application, applicants shall propose that in Article. 1 project before point 1 add new points. This proposal brings together a second minority proposal. We will vote on these proposals together. Their adoption will result in the futility of the 2nd amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 1 and 2 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 218 - for, against - 227, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the second amendment, applicants propose that in Article. 1 of the project before point 1 add new points from 1-3 and other wording from point 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 217-- for, 229-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third minority proposal to Article. 1 the draft applicants propose amendments to point 12. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 217-- for, 228-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third amendment to the article. Points 2 and 3 of the draft proposal propose the addition of new paragraphs. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 217-- for, 228-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 6 point 1 of the draft proposal proposes to add point (a) to the proposal. d. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 218 - for, 228 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 8 the draft applicant proposes a different wording of paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 6. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 218 - for, 228 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 8 the draft applicant proposes a different wording of paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 218 - for, 228 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1576 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 323 - for, no one was against, 121 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on the income of local government units and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the draft law amending the Law - Penal Code and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1368-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Piotr Sak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u406	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur, I have the privilege, but also the legal imperative, to present an additional report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law - Penal Code and some other laws, print No 1252. At its 37th meeting of 15 September 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. The 95 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1368 to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications after considering these amendments at its meeting on 16 September 2021 requests the High Sejm to approve the following amendments: 4 and 6 accept the remaining amendments, with amendments 5 and 9 voting in total. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill strikes people who have white collars, but unfortunately also dirty hands. The bill will uncompromisingly fight corruption, the disease of dirty hands. There's no place in politics for people who buy their positions. Mr President, the report. Such individuals must be faced with the fact that they will die civilianly and professionally in the sphere of public life. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know why you're so nervous. [[Voice from the Chamber: Report from the committee.]] Mr President, the committee's report. Mrs. Marshal! I know you're an outstanding sejmian. I am a beginner and novice in this area, but I would like to draw attention to the article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 and Article 6 49 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which, per analogy, allow me to present the motives which gave rise to the rejection of certain issues. I understand that your nerves are due to the fact that, instead of fighting corruption, you have unfortunately succumbed to it. [[Voice from the Chamber: Report.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that we will all vote in favour of the bill here in the courtroom, that there will be no obstacle in this courtroom that will question this bill. Everyone should vote in favour of a law that increases anti-corruption security, introduces severe sanctions for perpetrators, abolishes the information embargo. Mr President, you are a young Member, as you said. Please submit a report on what happened at the committee meeting. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Yes! Yes!]] Okay, I'm finishing up. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that anyone who is against this law is on the side of evil and villains and becomes a corruptionist. Thank you very much. I'm bringing in and running like a petitimatum report. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u407	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1368. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act - The Penal Code of the applicant proposes a new wording of point (a). and in Amendment 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 84 - for, 237 - against, 122 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. The 30th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator propose a new wording of paragraph 1. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking you to calm down. [[Voice from the room: Quiet down there.]] 443 Members voted. 207 - for, against - 236, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 3 and 4 were tabled in Article. 4 draft law containing amendments to the Political Party Act. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new version of the first amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 37 - for, 282 - against, abstained 126. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose among others. Amendment to Article paragraph 27a. 9. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 430 for, there was no one against, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose among others. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 1a 10 Law on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions. Amendment 9 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 5 and 9, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 208 - for, 229 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment, the applicants propose to add to the draft law art. 7a containing amendments to the Act - electoral code. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 427-a, no one was against, 16 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 10 draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 215-- for, 228-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 11th draft bill. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 214 - for, 228 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1368, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 286 - for, 1 - against, with 158 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the law - the Penal Code and some other laws. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence, the Act on Civil Records, the Law on Civil Status Acts and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1480-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jerzy Bielecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u408	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report to the Committee on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Personal Evidence, the Act on Civil Records, the Law on Civil Status Acts and some other laws, print No 1399. At the second reading, one amendment was tabled on 15 September. Today, the Commission has dealt with this amendment and given a positive opinion. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted and that the law be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u409	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1480. At the same time, the Commission is presenting an amendment on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 7 The Law amending the applicant proposes an amendment to point 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 434 - for, no one was against, 7. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1480, along with the amendment adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 433 - for, no one was against, 9 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the governmental draft law on the amendment of the Act on Foreigners and the Act on granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1546-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u410	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I present an additional report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the governmental draft law on amending the Act on Foreigners and the Act on granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland, print No. 1507. At its 37th meeting on 15 September this year, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1546 to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after considering 7 amendments, proposes High Izbo to reject all 7 amendments, but to vote on amendments 2 and 6. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u411	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1546. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant shall propose in point 3 in the following Article. 303b give a different wording to the paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 2, 3 and 6 futile. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 201 - for, 244 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose in point 3 in the following Article. 303b changes in the paragraph. 1. This amendment is combined with the 6th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 200 for, against 244, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Mr Kulesza, you either wear a mask or you leave the room. [[Applause]] Mr Kulesza, put on a mask or you will leave the room. [[Voice from the room: Young, move, move.]] Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the Parliament's deliberations. I would like to ask you to put on a mask, sir. Thank you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] In the third amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose in point 3 in the following Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 words: The lodging of a complaint does not stop the execution of the order. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 200 for, against 242, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose in point 3 in the following Article. 303b add paragraph. 4a and 4b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render the 5th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 201 - for, 243 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose in point 3 in the following Article. 303b add paragraph. 2a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 201 - for, 244 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 200 for, 244 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1546 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 244 - for, 178 - against, 23 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. [[Applause]] We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of St. Maximilian Kolbe on the 80th anniversary of his death. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1500. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 1500, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 394 - for, 15 - against, 19 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the commemoration of St. Maximilian Maria Kolbe on the 80th anniversary of his death. We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1543-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jerzy Paul to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u412	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure an additional report on the Government's draft law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws, prints 1508, 1543 and 1543-A. Five amendments were tabled at the second reading held on 16 September. One amendment was accepted, one amendment was withdrawn during committee proceedings, three amendments were rejected. The Commission recommends that only amendment No 1 be adopted and at the same time requests that the High House adopt the entire draft law, assuming that amendments 2 and 3 will be put to the vote together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u413	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1543. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Road Transport Act. In the first amendment, applicants propose, inter alia, not to add an article. 39gb. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 443 - for, against was no one, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 39c paragraph. 4 applicants shall propose a different wording of the joint part. This amendment is combined with the 3rd amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 2nd and 3rd amendments will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 215-- for, 228-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 33 The Act on driving vehicles of applicants proposes a different wording of the added paragraph. 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 215-- for, 227-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1543, along with the amendment adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 436 - for, 4 - against, abstained from 6. The Sejm passed a law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws. We would like to refer to item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Social Policy and Family Committee on the draft law amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1453-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u414	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days, print No 1446. At its 37th meeting of 16 September 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 1453 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the 19th amendments at its meeting on 16 September 2021, asks the Sejm to adopt five of them, i.e. 7, 9, 11, 13 and 18, rejecting the remaining amendments and adopting the entire bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u415	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1453. The Commission is also presenting amendments on which we will vote first. We're voting. In amendments 1, 2, 17, 19, the applicants propose that the Trade Reduction Act be repealed on Sundays and holidays and on certain other days. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will make amendments 3 through 16 and 18 futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 2, 17 and 19 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 136 - for, 271 - against, 39 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Amendments 3, 4, 5, 14 and 15 propose, inter alia, that workers be entitled to at least two Sundays free each month. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 6th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 3, 4, 5, 14 and 15 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 165 - for, 243 - against, 36 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. The 7th Amendment Act proposes that the trade ban should not apply every first Sunday of the month. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 169 - for, 242 - against, 32 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 point 14 of the amended Act propose amendments to the catalogue of establishments not prohibited from trading on Sundays and holidays. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will result in the futility of the 8th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 308 - for, 130 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 8 has become unobtrusive. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 The amended law proposes amendments to the definition of dominant activity. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will make the 10th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 302 - for, 129 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The 10th amendment has become unobtrusive. In the 11th amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 4 The amended law proposes to extend the catalogue of persons from whom the trader may benefit free of charge. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will result in an unobjectability of the 12th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 311 - for, against - 17, 116 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The 12th amendment has become unobtrusive. In the 13th amendment to the article. 6 of the amended law propose to add paragraph. 7 concerning the powers of the Labour Inspector. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 293 - for, 136 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th Amendment, applicants propose to add an amendment to the Law amending the Article. 1a containing a transitional provision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 70 for, 355 against, 20 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose that the amending act enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiry of 3 months from the date of publication. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 298 - for, 128 - against, abstained 16. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and some other days in print No. 1453, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 272 - for, against - 135, 37 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and some other days. [[Applause]] We return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission and the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law - Aviation Law and the Law on Border Guard. The committees are asking for the law to be passed from print no. 1499. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1499 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 393 - for, no one was against, 45 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act - Aviation Law and the Law on Border Guard. We would like to return to the discussion of item 17 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage, drawn up in Strasbourg on 8 November 2001. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 1444. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1444 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 432 - for, 1 was against, 10 stopped. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage, drawn up at Strasbourg on 8 November 2001. We would like to return to the review of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the excise duty Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1566. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the whole draft law in print No. 1566 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 441 - for, no one was against, held back 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the excise tax law. We return to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Act - Construction Law and the Law on Planning and Spatial Planning. The additional committee report is in print No 1544-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u416	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading of the government draft law amending the Act - Construction Law and the Act on Planning and Spatial Development from 1534 and 1544 prints, an application was submitted for rejection of the bill and 11 amendments. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy have today considered both the proposal and the amendments. High Izbo! The reasons for the rejection request are not true. The project is not a threat to spatial governance. It does not deprive the municipalities of planning power, because the construction must be in line with the local spatial planning plan, and in the absence of it, it is the municipality which makes decisions about the conditions of construction and land development. It can therefore be presumed that it will be issued in line with its own spatial policy and infrastructure development policy. Moreover, it is not true to say that this law will cause the extension of buildings, because the changes which are contained in the article. 2, on the clarification of the principles of urban analysis, will counter the spill-over of buildings. This has been borne in mind by the joint infrastructure and self-government committees which recommend the High House, firstly, rejecting the motion for rejection of the bill, secondly, rejecting all the amendments tabled and, third, of course, adopting the whole draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u417	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1544. The Commission shall also submit in an additional report a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and an amendment. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The committees are requesting that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 179 - for, 266 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendments 1 to 9 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act, including amendments to the law - Construction law. In the first amendment to Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1a of the applicant proposes to specify other conditions for the admissibility of the construction declaration instead of the need for a decision on the construction permit. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the amendments from 2 to 4. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 207 for, 233 against, holding down 5. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1a of the proposal suggests that the concept of usable surface instead of building space should be referred to in the provision. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 446 Members 208 in favour, 238 against, and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1a propose that the construction area specified in this provision should be 100 m2. Amendment 4 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 14 for, against -404, 26 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 30 applicants shall propose not to add point 6 in paragraph. 2a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 217 for, 228 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 30 applicants propose not to add paragraph. 5j and 5k. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will render amendments 7 and 8 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 207 for, 235 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 30 applicants propose e.g. Do not add lips. 5k. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 8. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 206 for, 229 against, 6 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 30 applicants propose to add paragraph. 5l and 5m. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 208 for, 232 against, 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 9, applicants propose not to add paragraph. 2c to Article 34. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 206 for, 238 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 2 and 4 amending act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 11. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 208 for, 238 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 of the Spatial Planning and Development Act, the applicants shall propose that the monetary penalty referred to in Article be imposed. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 was measured within 30 days. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 214 for, against - 232, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1544 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 248 for, 178 against, holding 20. [[Applause]] The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act - Construction Law and the Act on Planning and Spatial Planning. We return to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm's Bureau, sent this draft law together with an auto-correction to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in prints 1532 and 1532-A would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 179 for, against - 228, 36 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the application and thus sent the draft law together with the self amendment to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. We would like to refer to item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application by Przemysław Krycha, a private prosecutor represented by Karina Aust-Niewięcska and Krzysztof Saichta of 3 January 2019 to allow the Sejm to hold Marta Golbik criminally liable. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by a Member with the consent of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator proposes that the Sejm reject the request for consent to the criminal liability of Marta Golbik. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and Senator of the Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the proposal for consent to the criminal liability of Marta Golbik. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request by the private prosecutor Przemysław Krych, represented by Karina Aust-Niewięcska and Krzysztof Saichta of 3 January 2019 to consent to the criminal liability of Marta Golbik for the actions set out in this request, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. It was 2, 437 against, 5 stopped. The Sejm, in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes, adopted a resolution on the non-approval of the criminal liability of Ms Marta Golbik for the actions specified in the application of the private prosecutor Przemysław Krych represented by Karina Aust-Niewięcska and Krzysztof Saichta of 3 January 2019. [[Applause]] We would like to refer to item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application by Przemysław Krycha, a private prosecutor represented by Karina Aust-Niewięcska and Krzysztof Saichta of 3 January 2019 to be held liable by the Sejm. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable by a Member with the consent of the Sejm. I would remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee on the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator proposes that the Sejm reject the request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jarosław Urbaniak. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and Senator of the Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the request for consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jarosław Urbaniak. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request by the private prosecutor Przemysław Krych, represented by Karina Aust-Niewięcska and Krzysztof Saichta of 3 January 2019 to accept the criminal liability of Jarosław Urbaniak for the actions set out in this request, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For - 1, 430 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm, in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes, adopted a resolution not to allow the criminal liability of Mr Jarosław Urbaniak for the actions specified in the application of the private prosecutor Przemysław Krych, represented by Karina Aust-Niewięcska and Krzysztof Sajchta on 3 January 2019. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the remuneration of managers of state positions and certain other laws (prints 1538 and 1574). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Compensation of Persons with State Positions and Certain Other Acts. The Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent on 13 September this year a resolution of the Senate on the above matter to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. The Committee on Public Finances after considering this resolution at its meeting on 16 September this year. asks the High Sejm to reject two of the four amendments, i.e. 1st and 3rd, and two to accept - 2nd and 4th, voting together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u419	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes to amend Article. Article 2a (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 Act on the remuneration of managers of state positions and leaving in the current wording Article. 3 (1) (a) 2 of this bill. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. It was 259, 174 against, with a hold of 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. The 11th Amendment Act. Amendment 4 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2 and 4, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. No one was against - 435, 9 stopped. The Sejm, in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of the votes in favour, accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. The 17th Law amending the Senate proposes that paragraph be deleted. 1 to 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 227 for, 207 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Law on the remuneration of persons dealing with government positions and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws (Prints Nos 1540 and 1581). I ask Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u420	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Health Commission on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws on printing No. 540. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 13 September 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Health for consideration. The Health Commission, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 16 September 2021, submits: The High Sejm shall approve the amendments of the Senate contained in points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, while amendments 4 and 5 shall be voted jointly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u421	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 131c Act on the provision of health care financed by public funds The Senate proposes inter alia. amendments to paragraph 1. 1 point (1) (a) e, f and g. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 229 - for, 206 - against, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 2, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 2 amending act containing amendments to the Act on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 395 - for, 47 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 4 amending act containing amendments to the Act on Medical Activity. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 241 - for, 192 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 5 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Beings. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 4 and 5 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 230 - for, 202 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Payment Services (Prints Nos 1537 and 1575). I ask Mr Wiesław Janczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u422	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! The Committee on Public Finance on 16 September considered the Senate resolution on amending the Payment Services Act and recommended voting against Amendments 1, 3 and 4 and rejecting Amendment 2. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u423	We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 3. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Payment Services Act. In the first amendment to Article. 59ea paragraph. Point 2 (1) of the Senate proposes that the words "activity carried out' be replaced by the words "contracts concluded'. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 348 - for, 95 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 59ea paragraph. Point 2 (4) of the Senate proposes an editorial and legislative amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 4 for, against - 440, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 59ea paragraph. 3 The Senate proposes to delete neither the words "put." The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 347 - for, against - 95, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 2 of the Law amending the Senate proposes to amend the date of entry into force of the Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 345 - for, against - 85, 10 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this end, we have concluded the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Payment Services Act. We proceed with the consideration of item 33 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws (Prints No 1539 and 1554). I ask Mr Grzegorz Matusiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u424	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Five amendments were tabled at the meeting of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on the Treasury. One accepted, the other rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u425	We will vote in accordance with the rules applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 5. The Senate proposes drafting and legislative changes. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 5, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 1 for, against - 437, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes to delete Article. The 2nd Amending Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 226 - for, against - 214, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 6, the Senate proposes to delete Article. The 20th Amendment Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. No one was against - 445, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them (Prints No. 1536 and 1542). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u426	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the Prevention, Prevention and Control of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, print No 1536. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 13 September 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after having considered this resolution at its meeting on 14 September 2021, asks that the High Sejm adopt the Senate amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u427	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In its amendment, the Senate proposes that the Act enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. No one was against 444, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Information from the Minister of Health on the organisation of the National Vaccination Programme with an increased number of vaccine supplies and information on the dose of the used dose - vote. A request was made at the previous meeting to reject the information I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is to accept a motion to reject the Minister of Health's information on the organisation of the National Vaccination Programme with an increased number of vaccine supplies and information on the dose of the used dose will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 216 - for, 227 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the motion for rejection and therefore took note of the information. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the final wording of the National Plan for Reconstruction in a version that takes into account the public consultation and the conclusions of the European Commission - vote. At the previous meeting, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request to reject the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the final wording of the National Reconstruction Plan, including the public consultation and the conclusions of the European Commission, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 213 - for, 227 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the motion for rejection and therefore took note of the information. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 1577). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is accepting the proposal in print 1577 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 423 - for, 1 - against, suspended 13. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm calling a 10-minute break. Of course, we've finished the vote. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 mins 07 hours 20 min 26]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the agenda: the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2020 together with the opinion of the Commission for State Control (prints 1329 and 1501). I would like to ask the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber of Marian Banas to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u428	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with the constitutional and statutory obligation, I present a report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2020 to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland approved by the College of NIK. As the primary body of state control, whose reports provide reliable state information, we are based on values and principles that we have been faithful to for more than 100 years: impartiality, integrity and devotion to the service of the state and society. The Supreme Audit Chamber shall carry out its tasks on the basis of the annual work plan adopted by the College of NIK and submitted to the Sejm. High Izbo! The Supreme Audit Chamber, in carrying out its tasks, completed 91 topics of planned controls in 2020, including the control of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy objectives. We also carried out ad hoc inspection procedures on 63 subjects. The NIK carried out a total of 2007 unit controls in 1629 entities and formulated 4548 post-control applications. In addition, we have submitted 122 proposals for de lege ferenda. We've filed 55 reports of possible crimes or offences with law enforcement. We also sent notices to spokespersons of public finance discipline. The tangible effect of our work is the financial results of the audit. The amount spent in violation of the law is more than PLN 345 million. the amounts spent following infringement actions are more than PLN 136 million and the financial benefits are almost PLN 12 million. Let the fact that 5577 complaints, requests and requests for checks have only been received in the past year show that there is ever increasing confidence in the Supreme Audit Chamber. The applicants were mainly private individuals, but they were also MEPs, senators, councillors and social and trade union organisations. As many as 209 cases have been examined and planned to be used in the audit. A number of others supported the design of control activities, while all of them were analysed and supported the information base of the Supreme Audit Chamber. High Seym! The Supreme Audit Chamber published and formulated 609 follow-up proposals in 2020 more than in the previous year. The report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2020 presents the more important findings of the audit, broken down by six areas of operation of the State. In the area of economic security, NIK controlled inter alia. issues related to the financial system, financial stability and tax system. The control of public debt management and the liquidity of public finance units has proven to be justified by the increased burden on public finances caused by the prevention of the epidemic. NIK also addressed the problem of supervision of companies with the participation of the State Treasury, the purchasing procedures carried out by these companies or the management of the property of the State Treasury. It also assessed the management of the capital and investment portfolio of the Industrial Development Agency SA and related entities. It also assessed the stability of the economy and the conditions for its development. I would like to stress that in the above area NIK has been monitoring the state of Polish energy and security of energy supply in Poland for years, which has been particularly reflected in the control the effectiveness of the expenditure incurred by electricity producers. On the other hand, transport controls focused on transport infrastructure, system organisation and development of sustainable transport. We also studied electromobility for the first time. In the area of safe, efficient and effective NIK has checked, among others. the implementation of development work for the Ministry of National Defence. Audits on the functioning of services were important, especially in crisis situations. The COVID-19 epidemic has determined to a large extent the issues of our health control and ensuring a decent standard of living. In this area, we have examined issues related to the functioning of the health system. In view of the social situation, we have checked the welfare homes or the feeding of children and young people during the epidemic. In environmental and climate areas, controls focused on testing the effects of pollutants on human health, the impact of human activities on nature and the assessment of environmental projects. The Supreme Audit Chamber also examined issues of care for education, culture and national heritage. We consider it particularly important that the educational offer is not adapted to the labour market. In the field of research, NIK pointed to the weakness of supervision of the implementation of research projects. High Izbo! In its analysis of the implementation of the State budget and monetary policy objectives, the Supreme Audit Chamber considered, with regard to the State budget as a constitutional value, the need to restore the State budget of an appropriate rank related to its specific nature and central position in the public finance system. The reasons for this position were the finding of a significant financial imbalance of the State in 2020, which was caused inter alia. planning and carrying out major financial operations leading to an increase in public debt, excluding the State budget. These included, in particular, operations involving the transfer of tax bonds and lending to different entities in 2020 instead of grants which would increase government spending and deficit by almost PLN 30 billion. In addition, numerous financial operations resulting in an increase in the State's liabilities, which merely apparently did not increase public debt according to national methodology, were also to be provided for a reduction in the state budget. An example of this was, among others, the practice. issuance of bonds of the Polish Development Fund SA and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for the Anti-Action Fund COVID-19 with a total value of more than PLN 166 billion, whose repayment and service is guaranteed by the State Treasury. The Supreme Audit Chamber therefore notes with concern the further devaluation of the importance of the state budget resulting in the possibility of showing any result in the budget of the State, thus no longer relevant for the assessment of the financial situation of the State. In this respect, as President of the Supreme Audit Chamber and as well as the former Finance Minister, I would like to point out that the state budget is a fundamental instrument of governance and thus political power, and therefore sets limits in the State of law for the exercise of this power by the various authorities and public authorities' agendas, including government administration. I'm sorry. High Izbo! The Supreme Audit Chamber attaches particular importance to cooperation with the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Each year, it analyses and takes into account suggestions for audit topics submitted by the Sejm authorities to the NIK's work plan. The results of the checks carried out The Supreme Audit Chamber presents to the Sejm and its authorities. In the past year, it submitted 112 information on the results of the monitoring of ad hoc plans, 99 information on the results of the audit of the implementation of the State budget, analysis of the implementation of the State budget and monetary policy objectives, activity report of NIK in 2019. I would like to point out that the Supreme Audit Chamber is functioning efficiently and effectively, despite the fact that the NIK College is part-member. The fact that the new members of the NIK College have not been appointed by the Marshal of the Sejm is of great concern despite my submission of 27 proposals on this matter. Since becoming President, I have submitted six letters to the Marshals of the Sejm to complement the composition of the college. Unfortunately, the Marshal of the Sejm has appointed only seven members of the NIK College. The Commission for State Control proposed by me candidates for members of the NIK College - outstanding and recognized specialists in the field of law and economics or multi-annual, highly experienced employees of NIK, have given a negative opinion without pointing out any substantive arguments for such an opinion. The negative opinion even referred to a candidate who was a former member of the College of NIK, a professor and 3 years ago was given a positive opinion by the committee. It is difficult to imagine and accept in the State of law a situation in which, in connection with the possible failure of the Marshal of the Sejm members of the College of NIK, the activities of this collegial body and, consequently, the functioning of the entire House could be paralyzed. High Seym! Supreme Audit Chamber is also an internationally recognised and valued partner. NIK is selected for international peer reviews teams in other highest audit bodies and successfully competes in competitions for external auditor and in competitions for the implementation of projects of twin cooperation of the European Commission. As President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, I was again elected Vice-Chairman of the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities EUROSAI, bringing together 50 countries in the region and the European Court of Auditors. In addition, I represent the Supreme Audit Chamber on the board of the International Organization of Supreme Audit Authorities of INTOSAI, which brings together 201 members worldwide. This recognition for NIK allows to have a real impact on the development of modern state control in the world, among others. through participation in the creation of international control standards. The Supreme Audit Chamber is also chairing the work of the EUROSAI Working Group on environmental control, where it carries out, inter alia, International control on the management of plastic waste, and INTOSAI Sub-Committee on internal control standards where it is responsible for developing these international standards. NIK is implementing twin cooperation projects in Kosovo, Jordan and Palestine on its own. Such projects enable us to share our experience in digitisation of the control process, ensuring the quality of control and compliance of the control procedure with international standards of public control, also in order to promote independence and objectivity in controls. Currently, NIK is also conducting an external audit of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development of the OECD, to which it was selected through an open competition. The NIK shall also have its representatives in the College of External Audits of the European Union's financing mechanism for the European Union's military operations ATHENA, the ESA European Space Agency's audit committee and the European Organisation for Foreign Affairs. EUROCONTROL Air Navigation Safety. High Seym! Last year for the Supreme Audit Chamber it is also a time of extremely hard and effective work in implementing organisational improvements, as well as improvements in control processes. In 2020 the first strategy of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 18 years was adopted, 2021 and2024, with the adoption of which we started to set up an integrated monitoring support platform to reduce control time in the control unit, improve control quality and ultimately increase its dynamics. The strategy assumes, among other things, improving substantive and methodological competences by improving the professional workshop of controllers, strong support for the process of control of digital technologies, updating the control methodology. The Supreme Audit Chamber (Bell) focused on updating and developing information systems for both functional, technological and performance purposes. The systems currently in use support the NIK work plan and contain control data and support and monitor the control process. We have been preparing for more than a year to digitise the control process in the Supreme Audit Chamber. Designed analytical and reporting system will support the work of controllers, among others. through a multi-dimensional analysis of data from different sources. We also introduce digital modeling and management of workflow paths and run performance measurements of control processes. We are also working on modernising the control methodology based on current knowledge and the wider use of risk assessment, and a new manual of the controller, the previous edition of which took place almost 20 years ago, remains in the study. Action was successfully carried out in 2020 in the Supreme Audit Chamber to centralise the implementation of its budget. Since 1 January 2021, the budget of the Supreme Audit Chamber has been implemented only at the level of the component manager, with tangible results of both financial and organisational nature. The centralisation of accounting and the planning and execution of public contracts has been carried out. As a result, the operating costs of NIK were reduced by reducing employment in financial and accounting services from a total of 54 to 30 people. Further savings resulted in centralisation of the planning and execution of public contracts. As a result of centralisation, the effectiveness of financial management of NIK has been increased, better supervision of budget implementation processes has been ensured and organisational improvements have been possible, which has resulted in the creation of savings that have been earmarked for the performance of statutory tasks. The strategy succeeded in the idea of setting up a new department of ad hoc control coordination in the Supreme Audit Chamber, accompanied by the need to simplify procedures for the taking up and implementation of ad hoc controls. The efficiency of the department is demonstrated by the fact that in the last year it has coordinated and carried out or carried out nine complex checks covering inspection activities in 22 units. Mr. President, you're very close to the end, because you're already a little out of time, because it's 15 minutes, and I'm prolonging. Okay, so the most important thing is to finish up. In that case, Your Marshal, High Izbo, I will limit myself to the very end. I would also like to say, High Sejm, that all the Sejm committees that have examined the report, as in previous years, have positively assessed the activities and performance of the NIK. However, I would like to point out that since 2016, the Sejm has not accepted reports on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber without providing any substantive arguments. This situation is incomprehensible and gives rise to the view that the decisions of this House are not motivated by considerations of substance relating to the performance of the tasks of the House and to the fair work committed to the service of more than 1600 of its employees. On my own behalf, controllers and employees, I believe that the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber contribute well to improving and improving the functioning of the State and its bodies. I would like to thank all the auditors and employees of the Supreme Audit Chamber from this point on. They're people dedicated to public service and state control. When assessing this report, you will assess their hard and responsible work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u429	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would very much like to ask Mr Wojciech Sharak to present the opinion of the committee. [[Voice from the hall: Sharama.]] I'm sorry. Mr Wojciech Sharama, please. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u430	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! The Commission for State Control recommends that the High Sejm reject the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2020. [[What impudence!]] Why? Indeed, the Sejm committees have assessed the checks that have been carried out as a result of the work of these committees high, but this is the evaluation only to control a specific document from sampling part of the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber. In addition to the results of these audits, the Commission for State Control has also addressed organisational matters which are of concern to us, the organisational issues of the Supreme Audit Chamber, in addition to the examination of the way these checks have been carried out. In fact, all the Members who took the floor at the committee's meeting said that it was at least worrying that directors' positions in the Supreme Audit Chamber were not filled by competitions, as required by the NIK President, the NIK authorities, but were entrusted to persons, sometimes from outside the Supreme Audit Chamber, who did not have any audit experience, for a certain time, i.e. directors acting. What's the difference? Because you could theoretically move on to the agenda. [[Voice from the Chamber: What does this have to do with the report?]] Well, the director selected by means of the competition is guaranteed to perform his function for 5 years, until the next competition. That's what the bill says. [[Voice from the Chamber: We want a report.]] On the other hand, the person acting may at any time be dismissed by the President. He entrusts her with responsibilities, then takes away this trust and directs another. [[Voice from the Chamber: But how does this relate to the report?]] Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to be quite obvious here, why this is a serious problem. Well, the heads of the departments, the directors of the delegations... [[Voice from the room: What do the firm have personalities for our laws?]] Sir, I'm saying what we talked about at the committee meeting. Again, everyone said that. [[No, I didn't say that, Mr. Chairman.]] Mr. Speaker! As far as I can remember, you said you had to take a look at the NIK in connection with this case. [[Not in this meeting and not in this case. Don't lie to me.]] I'm not lying, I might be wrong, but don't accuse me of lying. Gentlemen, please... Mr President, please report on the committee meeting, okay? And please tell me... I'm just saying what happened at the committee meeting. But please tell us what happened at the committee meeting, not express your own feelings. Ladies and gentlemen, a director who is not sure if he will maintain his post after the audit is carried out is a director who can simply be vulnerable to influence. It is quite clear that there is a very serious dispute between the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber and the government authorities, a very serious conflict, in relation to the allegations that President Banasi intends to present to the prosecutor. [[Jesus.]] [[Political influence.]] [[A voice from the hall: Then let him present it, and yet let us not speak of it.]] [[What does that even have to do with the report?]] There's a case in the Sejm regarding the waiver of immunity. This is a very serious thing. If the Attorney General is asking for the waiver of immunity to the President and at the same time the President has ordered control of the prosecution's activities, there may be a conflict here. We must be very careful. To ensure that these directors, these auditors, who carry out the audit, are fully independent, certain that if the audit results are not in the interest of the President, they will maintain their position. [[Voice from the hall: Julia Przyłębska is fully independent?]] [[Voice from the room: Fund that Ziobro spends on his party.]] So this is one of the main arguments that contributed to the fact that the committee voted that this report had to be rejected. [[Voice from the room: Not the committee, just the PiS.]] If more than 60% of executive positions in the Supreme Audit Chamber have not been placed in accordance with the law, by means of a competition, but have been entrusted to these people in a different way, then this is a violation of the applicable law. [[Voice from the room: What about the college? You're also an uninhabited marshal. This is a violation, indeed, by your marshal.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, please say...]] This is a violation of the principle of collegiality in the Supreme Audit Chamber. The Supreme Audit Chamber should act in a collegial manner. The conflict is growing - it started in 2020 - between the president and the vice presidents. It's a thing that's insanely disturbing. [[Voice from the room: Not Vice President. I'm a former member of the PiS, a politician.]] The Chamber shall be managed by one person. The competences of the Vice-Presidents are systematically reduced. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[How do you know?]] [[Voice from the hall: Poland is a united ruling party, that's how you act. PZPR.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. [[Then end this political argument.]] They are systematically restricted, ladies and gentlemen. This must result in worse results at work, because individual presidents have separate parcels, are involved in control and cooperation with some departments. However, in this situation, which is, the actions of the Vice-Presidents, the persons who are legally appointed by the Marshal of the Sejm, are entrusted to advisers, shall be entrusted to persons who are directly subject to the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. This situation is flawed, ladies and gentlemen, and that is the situation we should change. This was recognised by the majority of the members of the Sejm Committee on State Control. Finally... [[Thank you. You've been talking to me.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Such an institution, such a serious institution, cannot be ruled by the Central Office for Corruption and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The filing of notices to the prosecutor's office for the activities of the vice presidents does not lead to anything, because in order for the House to function well, an agreement is needed between you, Mr President, and the Marshal of the Sejm. [[Voice from the room: And you're the president.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[It's political, isn't it? Political affiliation, that's what it's all about.]] Ladies and gentlemen, President Kwiatkowski, now Senator Kwiatkowski, was able to find a way to appoint members of the College of the Supreme Auditorium together with the Marshal of the Sejm. The College was functioning in an undisturbed manner. [[Because there were no scams.]] With differences of opinion, but yes. President Banas referred to this situation today. You have to remember that. It must be recalled that there must be cooperation between the marshal and the President of the Supreme Auditorium, or the Supreme Auditorium will begin to lose its authority. This very important institution is needed in Poland. We need it as a well-functioning, dynamic group of controllers and authorities of this House, which will take care of the interests of the Polish state, to ensure that the public penny is properly spent. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u431	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u432	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I hereby present the position of the Law and Justice Club in relation to the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2020, print No 1329. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank all NIK employees for their work in a special year, in the COVID year. The work of the controllers was very important, as always important for you, for the citizens, and very difficult, because, like all of us, they also struggled with problems related to COVID and had to carry out their control activities, i.e. they were even more at risk of losing their health. I wanted to thank you from this point forward, the staff of the Supreme Auditorium. Ladies and gentlemen! The analysis of the report and the facts we heard during the committee's work revealed a number of irregularities in the functioning of the Chamber. There have been frequent changes in staff, including very important for the functioning of the Chamber. NIK has led to a rotation of employment in administrative management positions. An important part of NIK's staff is wholly dependent on the President of NIK, who may at any time withdraw the delegation of responsibility. This destabilizes the NIK and, above all, demonstrates the lack of a management concept. The illustration of the phenomenon is that the fourth director is already in the business office and the third is in the organizational office and the third is in the IT office. During the last year and a half the president of NIK employed 170 people, which represents more than 10% employees of this institution. Non-transparent employment, non-discussion of staff and pay matters by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber with Vice-Presidents is a violation of the constitutional and statutory principle of the collegiality of NIK's activities. The principle of collegiality concerns all spheres of activity of NIK, not only the control sphere, but also the organizational, personnel and budgetary sphere. In addition, the authors of cases initiated in 2020 are first and foremost parliamentarians, second, social organisations, third, councillors, fourth, collective entities, further trade union organisations and public bodies. According to the above data, the first people to initiate control were parliamentarians. It should also be pointed out that there is no cooperation with the Marshal, then that there is no cooperation between the President, between the collegiates in the College itself. [[On the other hand, the lack of cooperation between your Marshal and NIK.]] Let me remind you: The College of the Supreme Audit Chamber is an organ which implements the constitutional and statutory principles of the collegiality of NIK. This discredits the House. The Supreme and Independent State Audit Authority should be independent, reliable and prepared for control. Ladies, gentlemen, the Presidents of the Chamber and its employees were those who gave their lives for the truth, former persons who held or held important functions in the State. [[Lech Kaczyński was cheating.]] The question is about the future and independence. The House is becoming increasingly, I would say, connected with the President and by the President becomes an exponent for action, and it is not the Supreme Chamber of Control as it has been in the past decades. For this reason, the Law and Justice Club opposes the adoption of the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber for 2020. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u433	Thank you. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u434	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Dear employees of NIK, who will probably listen to this debate or then listen to it! I must separate myself from the words of the chairman of the committee of Wojciech Sharama and Mr Grzegorz Lorek. [[Applause]] All of it. There is no justification and reliability in them, so-called. The truth. Nor do I find in your words a reflection of the opposition part's votes at the committee meeting. [[Applause]] [[You weren't at the board meeting, were you? What are you clapping?]] I'm sorry you can put it this way. This isn't about the theater. [[Exactly.]] This isn't about the theater, it's about negative opinions for six years, Mr. Sharama. This is about the Polish state. This is about a constitutional organ like NIK. [[Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, ……]] Do you think that we will get used to the fact that your party has such a way that you will proceed in this way: President NIK presents the best possible candidacy, professors leaving Polish and foreign universities with scientific achievements, and you will reject it by your majority? [[Applause]] It's not NIK that violates the rules of cooperation with the Sejm. It is your marshal who violates the constitutional principle of collegiateism without calling members of the College of NIK. [[Applause]] That's the truth about it. That's the real truth. What we saw in the committee was the embarrassment of Mr. Lorek's justification. I don't know if it's still there. [[No, he's gone.]] He's gone. Because he should be deeply ashamed of what he... [[But he came out of shame.]] In more than a dozen sentences, he expressed views that could be regarded as absolute embarrassment. He was just talking about rejection, about the conflict between the House... about the fact that your marshal doesn't appoint colleges, it's the fault of the president of NIK, it's NIK's fault, it's the House's fault. He was talking about politicising the House. He said that in the cockroaches it is said that the Members are instructing you to control the President. [[The hole tried, but he didn't make it.]] Further, he recalled one iconography of p. 231, saying that it shows that Members are the main initiators of control activities. If Mr. Lorek could read the iconography, he'd say it was 2.6%. cases. [[Voice from the room: It's what you need to be able to read with understanding.]] 2.6% cases. And 91% are the citizens of the Republic who bring in cases that are then being robbed by NIK. You have chosen a koreferent, who even an iconography He can't read. That's the end of this embarrassment, that's the end of this theater. I'm not surprised there's so many of you today, I'm not surprised you can't use your time. I mean, how do you shine your eyes? How can you shine your eyes on people who do their work and do it honestly? [[Please refer to the report.]] The report is a report that cannot be summarised in five minutes. On the other hand, you sabotage the work of the NIK, the PiS sabotages the work of the NIK in a disgusting, nasty way, destroying the fundamentals of the House. [[Applause]] The charges you've made, please refer to yourself. It is you who destroy the House, it is you who cause its authority to weaken. Why? Simple - you can't make a phone call to Banasia from Novgorod, [[Applause]] As soon as you can make a call to Julia's president. That's what this is all about. [[Voice from the room: That's the point, that's the point.]] That's what this is all about. The president walked into your backyard. [[Into the parade.]] ...that there are requests to the D.A.'s office for Deputy Prime Ministers, for constitutional ministers who simply participate in the devastation of the state. There's gonna be another checkup. The Justice Fund. There was an audit on public finances, what was going on in the COVID case. That's what the president said. Between what you say to the nation and what the EU methodology shows about debt, there is a colossal difference, about 200 billion PLN. And that's what NIK says. That's gotta not like it. I'll say it like that. There will be no acceptance for such a PiS theater, that every year you will present on an ever worse (Dawn) and fragile basis, on any basis... Please read the minutes of the committee meeting. That's embarrassing. That word doesn't even tell the truth. There will be no consent. The public must know that you are playing with the Polish state, that you are organizing a political huck, that you are destroying NIK. [[And you're ruining it.]] That's gonna burden you, Mr. Sharama. It's been going on for six years, and it's gonna be on you, and it's gonna be on you, and the marshal's gonna be on you. Someone's gonna ask why the best possible people weren't called. Thank you very much, Mr... No, because that's your political business. Shame and shame! [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u435	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u436	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President, High Izbo! This year it is 100 years since the Sejm passed the first law on state control. I must say that by listening to today's discussion, but also by mentioning what happened at the meeting of the Committee on State Control, it must be said that the founding fathers of our state control are probably falling in graves. Without well-managed state control, neither the state mechanism nor the national farm can develop. That was their idea when they made the first bill. Today, instead of the 100th anniversary of the Supreme Chamber of Control, we have yet another episode of war. It is worth mentioning the work of NIK in 2020. This 2007 audit is 55 reports to law enforcement about crimes or offences, including those of the highest officials of our state. That's 5577 complaints and requests for control processed by the NIK. This is only part of the work of the Supreme Audit Chamber inspectors. From this point on, I would like to thank all the employees of the Supreme Auditorium for what you are doing, without looking back at the war that is taking place between the Polish united party of the right and the President of the Supreme Auditorium. There are 30 control units, 14 departments and 16 delegations in NIK. Average employment last year was 1,600 people - 1590 people. If the Sejm had not accepted the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber today, it would have cut off the work, the work of those workers who have done their job properly. After all, the President of the Commission for State Control himself said that there are no objections to the work of inspectors. So if there's no objection to the work of inspection personnel, why, in the name of the war with the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, with the President of Banas, with your recent friend, do you want to reject this report? This is a really well prepared report that illustrates the scale of irregularities in our country. Mr President mentioned what was happening in the Committee on State Control. I have to say, it wasn't like that, we didn't speak with one voice. After hearing the opinion of the Sejm committees, it seemed obvious that all the substantive committees had adopted the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber. There were no reservations, and you have a majority in these committees. Unfortunately, the political struggle overcame common sense and the recommendation of the committee, which has been voted out by the votes of law and justice, is negative with regard to this report. This is absolutely incomprehensible to me. I know that President Sharama has an ungrateful role today, he is the only parliamentarian of Law and Justice in this House and must defend the ruling team and this accusation. But it's wrongly aimed. Because it's an accusation. These weapons are aimed at the Supreme Control Board. You can fight if you want, with the president, but not with the Supreme Board of Control. This is the fight against an independent institution whose rules of operation are enshrined in our constitution. And this is the first... I've only got a minute, so I'll cut it short. This is one example of the destruction of control institutions in our country. The other one I want to draw attention to is the regional clearing houses. You were talking about the fact that there's a staff retention in the Supreme Auditorium that about 100 people... If we read this report, we will find out that about 100 people have passed away, but most of them are retirement. This is also included in this report. On the other hand, over 300 people have left in the last three years as regards regional clearing houses, Mr President, because there is no financing for regional accounting chambers. Even though we've passed a dissertation, the Prime Minister hasn't done anything about it yet, he hasn't paid any extra money. Another institution, which unfortunately is or was destroyed by you, is the State Labour Inspection. We remember what happened (the bell) in 2019, what happened in the State Labour Inspection. Now there's new leadership. We hope that we will be able to explain all the irregularities that have been identified. I want to say one last thing, if I may, Marshal. Please. Because I also have an appeal to your marshal at the end. It was noted here that the Supreme Audit Chamber operates on the basis of collegiality. It's kind of her primary function. All the reports, all the work that is being done in the Supreme Audit Chamber, go to the college meeting. The college should count 19 people. There are 11 people today. There are no four members: representatives of legal and economic sciences and three representatives of departments and advisers employed in the Supreme Audit Chamber. The President of the Supreme Audit Chamber said that he had made, perhaps, six applications to appoint the right people with a great deal of work to these vacating posts. As long as you weren't on the warpath with President Banas, as long as there was still a crystal armadillo, then you accepted, you completed these vacancies. Since you've been on the warpath, there are no additions. That's why I have a motion, Marshal. I know it's not directly to you, but through you to Marshal Witek to stop holding these posts. I have a request, however, to give the green light and that these vacancies be completed. I also want to go to the end... Go ahead and finish. ...because I'm already way past time... [[Voice from the room: 2 minutes.]] ...to say the last sentence to President Banas, because as the report was... [[Voice from the room: It was the last one.]] But last sentence, sir. [[Voice from the room: Last sentence.]] Last sentence. Last sentence to President Banasi. As was the report on the envelope elections, I compared your situation to the situation of Pruszkow and I wouldn't want you to get attached to that comparison. I wish you to be more associated not with Masa, not with Pruszkow, but with Kmicik, who fought with Radziwiłł, and this Radziwiłł is the Party of Law and Justice today. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u437	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. You've been talking for a very long time, but if you're gonna have to finish, you're gonna have to hurry up, 'cause two and a half minutes. Please, Mr Jan Łopata, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u438	Thank you very much, Marshal, because the subject is important, and time is a little short. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear President, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present our assessment, our opinion on the report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2020. High Izbo! On Wednesday, 2 days ago, when the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber presented a section of the work of the Supreme Audit Chamber, a significant but in total small piece, namely the information of the President of the NIK on the matter detected by the Supreme Audit Chamber of irregularities in the activities undertaken by public authorities and bodies in connection with the organisation or preparation of the general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered on 10 May 2020, the Law and Justice, the Members of this party, the ruling party, hid their heads in sand and, in practice, went out of the sitting room ostentatiously. Today, the report on the work and the results of this work in the Supreme Audit Chamber applied a different fortel, which comes down to the same thing in total, throughout 2020. This point was placed in such a time of day, or actually night, to limit to the maximum reach of voters. But, ladies and gentlemen, in fact, Mr President, dear Mr President, neither the first way nor the one applied now will have the effect you set up. The materials, reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber are meticulously developed, recorded and available. They are now available and will be available when there is an opportunity for true analysis. And it will come sooner or later. That's what's gonna happen. Please stand in the truth and responsibility, give substantive answers, conduct a substantive discussion, not act as we just heard from the gentlemen of the Law and Justice Club. And the allegations made by the Supreme Auditorium inspectors are devastating. I would like to mention a few of these statements in the report on future elections. That is, even such a basic charge and here I quote: In accordance with the constitutional rule of law and the hierarchy of sources of law, the exclusion of statutory powers reserved for certain bodies, in this case the electoral bodies of the PKW and the electoral officials and electoral committees, could only take place by law, not administrative decisions. Could there be a more devastating statement of regularity, in quotes, of the choices to be made? It's a basic charge, and there are other consequences. Just such that NIK notes that the action taken by the controlled entities, state authorities and companies, based on legally defective decisions of 16 April, resulted in a non-economic expenditure of PLN 56 450 406 from the State Treasury - of course this amount results from a summary of only 2020, today we know that this is more - and the financial damage in Poczta Polska and PWPW. According to the Supreme Audit Chamber Even an extreme situation, such as an epidemic, should not constitute a reason to withdraw from the constitutional rule of law. I stress - there can be no reason to withdraw from the constitutional rule of law. Another issue, the flagship in total, was the issue of the government a few years ago, namely the Strategy for Responsible Development. Do you remember that strategy? Beautiful PR, and what does NIK say? Here is also a quote: In the assessment of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the so-called implementation of the so-called. flagship projects planned in the Responsible Development Strategy indicate that this development mechanism was not effective. The irregularities found did not affect the level of industrialisation and economic development at this stage. The main reason for the ineffectiveness of the measures taken so far was the unreliability of their preparation. This is a quote from the NIK report. Maybe one more sentence from the evaluation of this flagship project of the last term: None of the programmes provided the funding necessary for their implementation. It's disqualified. You can only hope, and I hope that the assessment that the Supreme Audit Chamber will make regarding the implementation of the current PR programme (Dzinek), which is the Polish Load - and we will certainly ask for this - will be a little different, without any statements concerning the incorrect preparation. High Seym! I have the impression, and in fact I am sure that these, out of necessity, short examples that expose the PiS state are the reason for the negative opinion of the Law and Justice Club against all the Seym committees. Of course, we as a club of the Polish Coalition do not share this opinion in any way. High Izbo! Finally, I would like to thank all the employees of the Supreme Audit Chamber very warmly for their enormous, reliable work, for their professional approach to important economic and social phenomena. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u439	Thank you very much, sir. Here you go, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u440	It'll be short for a change. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We evaluate the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber as Poland 2050 high, and with it we also highly assess the work and attitude of its controllers and employees. That's, among other things. I am an envoy who, in matters that are important to you, asks for control of the President of NIK. I'm sure it's my duty. If you're accusing NIK of too low a number of institutionally inspired controls, that means your institutions aren't doing their job because they're acting on a party assignment because they're afraid of the truth. And you, PiS, are insulting NIK employees today on their holiday, humiliating their hard work. Shame on you because you should follow their example. [[That's not true. That's not true. Nobody insulted NIK employees.]] It's insolence to pick on staff matters when you're blocking the functioning of a constitutional organ. Take the beams out of your eye - nepotism, corruption, waste of our money. Lucky there's someone left who's pointing at you, looking at your hands. And for that, I thank the NIK controllers from this place, for their courage and standing up for the state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u441	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. [[May I speak now, Marshal?]] No, after the questions, at the end. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm sorry. But, ladies and gentlemen... You'll be able to speak after the questions. As a representative of the committee after the questions of Members, you will be able to speak and then you will be... [[Not now?]] Not now. Please, Mrs Magdalena Filiks, the Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? There isn't. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u442	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Supreme Audit Chamber, the employees, the President for his relentlessness, reliability and objectivity. Mr Sharama wanted to undermine the report, he wants to undermine the powers of the President, who has become inconvenient to the government because he has revealed the truth. You're afraid of the truth, you're afraid of being held accountable, you're afraid the nation's gonna find out about your scams. The cooperation between NIK and the Sejm is questionable according to the government. It is embarrassing that the highest authority in the country is not interested in good, reliable, responsible work. If it weren't for their work, Poles wouldn't have found out about many problems in Poland. They wouldn't know the truth about masks, about guys' orders, about spending money without control, without justification, about unleashed bonds. President Banas, congratulations again. I'm sorry for your loss. One more thing. Now that I'm on the stand, I don't know if I can make it, but I'd like to present the request of mothers, wives, families of soldiers standing at the border of our country. A state of emergency has been introduced. I'm a Mazur resident, so it's close to my region. It turned out that after this state of emergency, soldiers are equipped with a weapon that is defective. Isn't military equipment, knowingly, defective equipment treason and state crime? Is it true that with full awareness, rifles were purchased with a flaw for the military's protection of the territory or other services? Is it true (The Bell) that the faults of the arrow guns were known before signing the contract for 500 million PLN? Thank you very much. Mr. President! On behalf of the families, please check whether this is true, because it could endanger the lives of soldiers, their families. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u443	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u444	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Dear employees of NIK! Today we evaluate your report, your work for 2020. Today, we are assessing the work of an authority that upholds the state by examining and controlling its state. It is a body which should be independent, an authority which has been positively assessed by all committees but has not been well assessed by the governing party. Why? Because he exposed the state of the irregularity in Poland. This body, as the draftsman of the committee said, should... I quote: The House is managed by one person. The House must be managed in agreement with the Marshals of the Sejm. So the House, which should be independent, is to be managed together with the Marshal of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! You want to own the last independent institution (the bell) in the country. There is no agreement between the opposition and the citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u445	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Coalition. Sorry, Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u446	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! The report sets out the findings of the checks per six areas of the State's activities. This is a comprehensive and comprehensive report. The President and all the auditors who, despite the outbreak of COVID-19, have made more post-control proposals than in 2019. Over 4,500 post-control applications are a lot of work. It is worrying that there are no new members of the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber. It's amazing to me that your marshal underestimates such an important issue as the appointment of members. Mr. President! You said we have a significant financial imbalance in the state. Please explain why (the bell) it is, who is responsible for it. What's it like, do we have a virtual state budget? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u447	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u448	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The NIK operates under pressure from the ruling camp. All the Sejm committees welcomed the report. The exception was the Commission for State Control, which, without any basis, assessed the report negatively. Why is the president of NIK in the disfavor of the State Control Commission, since so recently President Marian Banaś was according to the crystal government? What happened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u449	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u450	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Only a positive opinion on this report can be a proper thank-you to 1600 NIK employees. Any spell on the part of the PiS will be false and hypocritical. People need to be thanked. The day is the laborer's payment. Don't pay for the job, don't thank it's a sin calling for revenge to heaven. You have to read the Gospel. As to the question, Mr. President, please expand your relationship with the marshal. Seven collegiates are gone. In three years' time, the college won't work at all. I'm sorry, two years from now. It'll be before the election. That's what's gonna happen. Where's the dog buried? It's not possible for you to present a better candidacy. What should I do? How to appeal? One last thing. I hope that, after this debate, you will reflect and the whole PiS Club will vote in favour of this report. This is what honesty and responsibility for the state requires. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u451	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u452	Mrs. Marshal! Dear President, High Seym! The Sejm shall exercise control over the activities of the Council of Ministers within the scope of specific provisions of the Constitution and of laws. It's the constitution that gives us the right. This law in this Parliament is being limited by the majority presently. The activity of the Sejm committees is restricted, the activity of the Sejm is restricted. If so, don't be surprised that parliamentarians are looking for control by the Supreme Board of Control by making proposals. Mr. President! You said that as a result of the checks carried out, 55 reports were made to the law enforcement authorities of the possibility of committing a crime. How many of these applications have the law enforcement authorities adopted and conduct in connection with them? Second line. What is the average wage of the employees of the Supreme Audit Chamber, those 1600 employees who perform (the Bell) work important for Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u453	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u454	Dear Marshal! Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If I hadn't attended a few committee meetings, maybe I would have believed all the silly things that PiS Members put forward. There's not a word in the report about what you were talking about at the PiS about organizing a job. The report relates to the tasks performed. Where do you get that kind of attention? We are not interested in your conflict with the President of the Supreme Auditorium. We are interested in whether the Supreme Audit Office is doing its job properly. We have no comment on that. If it hadn't been for the honest work of the Supreme Auditorium, we wouldn't have known about the envelope crimes. We're in this room. We've seen how many scams you've done. We wouldn't know about buying ventilators. At the meetings of the Finance Committees and other committees, we learned this through the (Ring) of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Thanks to it, we also know about irregularities when it comes to the purchase of masks. Irregularities remain to be investigated, Mr President, regarding expenditure under the Polish Szwalnie project. It's about PLN 250 million. We want to know. Public debt. The state boasted of the achievements of the President when he was in a different position. You were bragging about the VAT seal. What about today? As far as college vacancies are concerned, you did not choose, for example. Professor Raczkowski, who was Minister of Finance and honestly said that the country could not afford 500+ at the time. Why are you looking for irregularities in what has been done fairly? It's the Justice Fund. After all, you should be pleased with this. Go ahead and finish it, Member. The adoption of the report presented by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, if the task is carried out, should be your responsibility. Thank you very much, Member. You are failing to do that. [[Applause]] We accuse you of not fulfilling your mandate correctly when it comes to state control. This task is carried out by the Supreme Audit Chamber. Thanks to the employees. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u455	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u456	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I want to return to the request for a review of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers in order to check the legality, economy, purpose and reliability of the establishment and functioning of the Government Local Investment Fund, which I brought to the Supreme Audit Chamber in December. d. with Mr Jack Protas. In particular, we were talking about the method of allocating funds from the Fund - a method that was unreliable and uneconomic in the general opinion. Never in the past 30 years has there been such a politicized government financial hand as this fund to counter the negative effects of COVID and support local development, and it has become an exclusion for many cities, municipalities and districts, but above all it disregards the inhabitants of municipalities, cities and powiats, where in the second and third recruitments, despite properly submitted proposals, not a single zloty has arrived. That's a double zero grant. Why? Because the fund has become an objective whip for these mayors (the bell), wojettes and old men who did not want to be partyly associated with the PiS. Public power has treated money as political prey. She gave them away without transparency, without rules, without criteria and without the possibility of dismissing local governments. Mr. President! We are after control at KPRM, we have reached the electronic correspondence of the competition committee, which leaves absolutely no illusions that it was different. That's why I'm asking you, why didn't you start this check that was important for almost 50%? Local governments in Poland? Question two, last question: Will the Government Local Investment Fund be audited by the Supreme Audit Chamber? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u457	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Hanaczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u458	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Not so long ago, because in 2019, NIK celebrated the 100th anniversary. I am also the owner of the album, the Supreme Audit Chamber of 1919 and 1919. A hundred years of caring for the state. Professor Antoni Dudek, reciting this album, wrote: Before you is a fascinating journey in which people of one of the most important institutions standing guard of an honest and transparent state will guide you. Then no one knew how fascinating it would be and sometimes terrifying this journey. I don't envy nobody's employees. I would like to refer to the statement of the Board of the Chief Workers' Union of NIK Workers in August, in which I read: We strongly protest against the statements of politicians violating our dignity by questioning the independence, impartiality, reliability and reliability of the audit findings. These are very serious accusations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They kind of make us look at the institution differently, that someone might look at it differently. Could the President bring forward what politicians, what accusations, and also the position of trade unions in this matter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u459	Thank you very much, Member. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u460	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear President, In my speech today, I would like to draw your attention to the sport of women. Sport, although it is a very common phenomenon, is a sphere, an area very strongly dominated by men. We've got more and more players, sportsmen, which make up almost 40%. National representation of Poland in various disciplines. Unfortunately, despite the gradual increase in the percentage of women in sport, they are still underrepresented in decision-making bodies of sports institutions at all levels, both local and national. Speaking of sports, I'll give you a few digits. For example, in the case of 10 sports on board there are 127 men per 4 women. Speaking of women's sport, I am also talking about discrediting, discrimination, mobbing, harassment, which from time to time sound very loud in Me Too's action (The Bell), through tears and suffering, and from the media we learn about further dramas and tragedies. Most initiatives are still in the debate phase. We all know that there are huge differences in sport, but it is hard to deny that women and girls need to be given better opportunities for both sport and social activation and to create conditions for action in sport. I therefore request that the anti-discrimination regulations contained be checked and that, within the framework of the checks carried out, women's discrimination and equality in sport be dealt with. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u461	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u462	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The President of the Supreme Chamber of Control has come a long way. I must say that since I criticized the Law and Justice programme at the press conference, where President Banas was listed as a candidate for the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber - and this passage was written by the President of the PiS himself, because I know its syntax - it seemed that you would be a man who would somewhat implement the policy of the PiS, as he does today. President of Przyłębska or many other forms, for example in the wrong chambers of the Supreme Court. However, first of all, you have stood up for the employees of the Supreme Audit Chamber and the real role that this Constitutional Institution should play - and that is an advantage. At the same time, you are a person to whom you can have many critical comments about earlier things, but in the context of all these promotions, changes, such as the Polish constitutional institutions (the bell), including the National Radio and Television Council, you are an example of someone who put the country first and not his career. Mrs. Marshal! I would like to make one more point in one slightly longer sentence, because this issue is very important. Mr. President! In your report, you spoke of an amount of nearly 30 billion, which, actually, in the form of State Treasury bonds, has been transferred out of budget... [[60 billion.]] ...to various institutions. If 60, I may have missed the other 30. One of these institutions is Television Poland. Television Polska S.A., which is legally acting - supposedly should perform - function at the end of an important institution. An institution which has an objective, proportionate function, etc., in terms of information to the public, etc. Well, nearly PLN 6 billion in the form of government bonds was directed there. It seems to me that you have a duty to deal with how this money, these bonds, are being converted there simply for the implementation of the Public Television Act. Thank you very much, sir. It seems in a radically inappropriate way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u463	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u464	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! Art. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: The 3rd Constitution states that the Supreme Audit Chamber operates on the principles of collegiality. The term of office of the members of the College shall be three years. For today there are eight out of 19 places that should count the College of the Supreme Auditorium. Mr President, my question is: When do the terms of the College members end, and when will the absence of quorum cause the work of the Supreme Audit Chamber to be paralyzed due to the absence of these posts? That was a question, Mr. President. Request a written reply if you don't make it, because there won't be enough time for an answer. And a question for the president. Mr President, you are a reasonable man and you are doing very well - in my view, perhaps my colleagues (The Bell) here do not share this assessment - the work of the Committee on State Control. You know that this argument concerning the performance of the duties simply cannot withstand an attempt to verify. He was acting President of Polish Television, you wanted to do In his duties as RPO, the Ombudsman, was acting as the Constitutional Tribunal. Everywhere, the Law and Justice give people who do their duty. Today, the fact that there are several directors in charge cannot be an argument for rejecting the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Thank you very much. I ask you to reconsider and change your mind. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u465	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u466	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! We would like to thank you for this report, which, in our view, is reliable, in which the control of power is carried out simply constitutionally, especially in terms of public debt. After all, the last two years represent nearly PLN 400 billion of public debt, which has increased. It's an enormous amount of money. But I say this in a special context, not only when it comes to the issue of indicators, the transfer to BGK, to the Polish development fund, but also in the context of what the Polish state should devote to in its key task. I'm talking about the health and safety issues of the state. If we find out today that the number of deaths in 2020, the death rate of Poles was the highest since World War II - over 477 thousand. Poles and Poles died in a hard year of COVID - if Poland achieves the most dramatic indicators of the above-dimensional mortality of Poles, 26 (The Bell), the worst in Europe and the second in the world, we ask about the reasons. The government can't answer us. And I have a huge request that you, Mr President, try to actually take this subject by checking the system. On the one hand, there is a huge increase in debt, these are huge amounts, not necessarily allocated to the health sector. And despite the heroic work of those responsible for health care, these indicators are dramatic. Would you please try to check this out and answer the question of why such an enormous excess mortality of Poles and Poles... Thank you very much, sir. ...in 2020 to improve this system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u467	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u468	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Mr. President! Law and Justice, unable to take over the Supreme Audit Chamber, does everything to sabotage her work, does not appoint collegiates, does not accept the reports of the NIK, searches for pseudoarguments, so that she does not accept the report about the responsibilities, directors, as Koperska's colleague has already said. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I address Mr Sharama here: I understand that you are frustrated because the NIK reveals your scams, irregularities, abuse. But tell me you don't like it, and don't use pseudoarguments to discredit this House, discredit the President's (Ring) and his actions. And I have a question for the president. You're attached to international bodies. Is there any other country that calls itself democratic, in which the Supreme Audit Chamber or a similar body would be treated in this way by the government at the time? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u469	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u470	Ladies and gentlemen! It's a pity the president didn't have enough time to present his entire speech. I have a request and a question as to whether it will be available in full, not only in the part that you have presented here, because we are very interested in many areas, such as debt matters or other problems. We'd be very grateful for that. As chairman of the committee in the European Parliament, I have often used reports, studies of the European Court of Auditors, which carried out some analysis, evaluations of various programmes, projects, whole areas of cases. These were very interesting materials. Do you also use these studies? Is there such an exchange that you reach for these materials? Because they concern not only the whole of matters in the Union, but also matters in individual countries. I understand yours are available to them, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the end of the day, the questions that we are most... I think an in-depth analysis requires more than just a budget problem. Actually, we have a budget that goes from year to year. This is not a budget for one year. This is actually the budget of the years 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, this will have to be considered together. In this context, the public opinion is very interested in taking a deeper look at health issues, education, because we know that this reform is delaying the development of the country, and with security problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u471	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Wojciech Sharama, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u472	Ladies and gentlemen! We have escaped from this basic discussion, which I have raised, so I will ask again: Mr President, why aren't you organizing competitions for executive positions? I from this speaker, speaking of the Supreme Chamber of Control, have often demonstrated that the employees of the Supreme Chamber of Control, the controllers, have great respect, not only for me, but for the whole club of Law and Justice, and most of us see their hard work. Organizing a competition is allowing these people a certain promotion, professional promotion, financial promotion. This is a perfectly normal case. If there was a competition, they'd have a good chance of becoming directors of each department or something. Delegations. Why don't you run those competitions that your bill requires? Because the fact that you left out this theme (the bell) in your speeches, I understand. That, on the other hand, is a specific question for you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u473	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. That's the last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u474	Mrs. Marshal! Dear President, High Izbo! The report on NIK's activities states that there are numerous shortcomings and suspicions of a crime committed by state officials, as well as the control activities undertaken by NIK, and they are addressed to the prosecutor's office against 55 applications for the initiation of proceedings. I would kindly ask the President to draw up in writing which of these proposals were rejected without consideration by Minister Ziobra and his subordinate prosecutors. How many of them have been suspended in the vacuum? How much does he expect to open a possible procedure? How many of these proceedings have been completed and how many cases have been brought before the court? Since I represent the people of Kujaw and Pomerania, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Supreme Staff (The Bell) of the Audit Chamber for its independence, impartiality and stand on the side of self-government and the rule of law. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u475	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of NIK President Marian Banasi. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u476	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I will refer to the statements presented by President Sharama. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. As you know, I was in the Government of Law and Justice and I was the author of the most important reform of fiscal and customs consolidation, which brought over 300 billion extra money to the budget. You had money for 500+, for all the social programs. That's how you won the election, and if it wasn't for that, maybe you wouldn't be in this room today. Sir, there was a record in the KAS Act, among other things. That KAS employees won't have any competitions. Do you know why? Because when there were competitions previously in the KAS, in the tax administration, in the UKS, the result was that the tax gap was one of the largest in Europe, 26% And after the reform, I reduced it to 12.5%. in such a short time that such a situation was not in any country in Europe. And now I'm going back, sir, to these competitions. Well, these are hints and not the analysis you've done, but the resentment of your Vice President Dziuba, who served as Vice President of the Supreme Auditorium. Firstly, I would like to make it clear that the allegations which he makes regarding these directors without a competition are formulated by the person against whom the District Attorney's Office in Warsaw on 19 August this year. opened an investigation into the breach of official powers, i.e. for an act of art. 231 The Criminal Code, which consists of the unlawful influence on NIK controllers without internal procedures, the unauthorised correction of the post-control design, the influence on the results of the checks and the pressure on controllers, the unauthorised influence on the change of inspection assessments and the correction of information on the results of the checks. I must add that this unlawful act of your vice president under investigation concerns as many as four different NIK inspections. Did the vice president tell you that? In addition, attention should be paid to the recent behaviour of Mr Tadeusz Dziuba at the NIK College meeting, whose State attended the meeting of that committee on 21 July, was witnessed in order to prevent the Minister of Justice's reservations from being heard following a review of the functioning of the Justice Fund. Mr Dziuba refused to vote on the matter in order to break the quorum and thus prevent the procedure from being implemented, [[Applause]] the end of which the publication of information on the results of the checks is subject. Such behaviour is evidence of a failure to comply with the obligation of the member of the College of NIK, and is clearly detrimental to the performance of the House's duties and thus to the public interest. It is also impossible to pass indifferently with the words made publicly by the Vice-President at the meeting of the Committee on State Control on 14 September, where you were present, when he scandalously defined his role in the NIK as the one that is going to - I quote - the application of a certain technology of boycotting the Supreme Auditorium, which is simply about questioning everything so as to show... [[Scandal!]] ...that the House doesn't work, and assign it to the President. And according to the most important book known to all of us here, which Christians know, you will know by their deeds, and by their fruits you will know. And the fruit is. I presented them today, ladies and gentlemen. The House works dynamically, it's well organized and successful. It is objective and reliable and does not serve any party. It serves the public, the citizens and the state. It's gonna serve as long as I'm the president here. [[Applause]] On the other hand, as regards the possibility of entrusting duties as director or vice-director, I would like to make it clear that the Law on the Supreme Audit Chamber, precisely Article. 69e act on NIK, does not prohibit such practice. The delegation of responsibilities shall be justified if, during the term of office, for objective reasons, the Director or Vice-Director is unable to provide work and also where the term of office has expired and the competition for that post has not yet been decided. I am not saying that these competitions will not be, but from practice I know, after experience in KAS, that not competitions, not directors, people assigned to functions or positions, but checking them on the basis of results - results give a guarantee that work is properly and properly performed. In this respect, I would like to stress that among those entrusted with duties, the Vice President did not tell you about this, the director or vice-director of control units, are many years and very experienced employees of NIK. There is no p.o. that would serve as a person who would not have long-standing practice and experience. These are people with academic degrees, including doctors of legal and economic sciences, persons with legal counsel powers, lawyers, as well as people who stand out for their knowledge and, what is very important, patriotic and moral attitudes. The allegations made by the vice-president should therefore be treated as outrageous and not justified in fact and in law. You're repeating them here, and that's very inappropriate. Above all, it should be important for us to ensure that the Supreme Audit Chamber is a state, independent and professional body. And I'm taking care of it. And, like I said, the effects speak for themselves. About your cooperation with the marshal. Sir, if your cooperation is to be based on the fact that your marshal will apply for candidates who vote like Mr. Dziuba, then there will be no such cooperation. We are talking about those who have great experience, we have pointed them out, that you were present on the committee and why haven't you been appointed? 'Cause you just don't, you gotta make the president angry. If that is the case, we will really come to the conclusion that there will be no quorum for college at some point. Maybe next year, because some people are running out of terms. I hope that you will go after... that there will be some sense and reflection, and we will really start working together on a good basis for Poland and Polish citizens, because that is what this House is for. This isn't about showing some sort of intentional irregularity. The point is to just show what's bad to fix it, improve it. And that's what the House is for. We point out systemic solutions, because it cannot be that millions, hundreds of millions, or perhaps billions will be wasted, and unfortunately such examples are already there. So we can't be indifferent to that. And the professionalism of our controllers shows that it is precisely in the most reliable, objective way that they are doing the work entrusted to them by the Constitution and the Law on the Supreme Chamber of Control. To answer the remaining questions, I can say that it should be pointed out first of all that the government budget deficit amounted to PLN 85 billion in 2020 and that the general government deficit exceeded PLN 160 billion. That was the question from one of your fellow Members. Such a high imbalance in public finances has resulted in a significant increase in public debt. This debt, calculated according to the European Union's methodology, increased by as much as PLN 290 billion in 2020, to PLN 1336 billion. The earlier increase in public debt, calculated according to this methodology by a similar value as observed in one 2020 alone, lasted almost 10 years. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is also to show it so that all citizens know how the financial situation and the state budget situation really looks like, because only then can we work together to make it better and better. As regards the question that Mr Koperski has formulated, the members of the college, I have already spoken about this matter. As regards the control of the Azoty Group, NIK carried out a check under the name of the selected aspects of the activities of the Azoty SA Group and its subsidiaries. The results of this audit were published in November 2020. It included the companies Grupa Azoty SA and Grupa Azoty Zakłady Azotowe Mr Wilczyński's question. As far as relations with your marshal are concerned, I've already answered that. Mrs Filiks. The Supreme Chamber of Control has already undertaken on its own initiative and is carrying out a control under the name "The Gate's Carbine for the purposes of the Territorial Defence Forces." The results of the audit will be presented when it is completed and you will be able to see it. As regards the control of the sewing shop, the delegation in Rzeszów is preparing a request for ad hoc inspection of the Polish Szwalnia. We're planning on putting it together next week. So that this inspection will also be undertaken. Ladies and gentlemen, so much for the questions you have asked. As for the others, we will respond in writing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u477	Thank you, Mr. President. Please take the floor of the rapporteur, Wojciech Sharama. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u478	Thank you for this discussion, for paying attention. Mostly there were substantive votes. I am sorry, Mr Wilczyński, because we normally speak at a committee meeting. You know I value your attention. We're just talking substantively and specifically... [[I'm sorry, too, that's what it looked like at the committee meeting.]] ...then today's performance was so different. [[And we liked it.]] Yes, I try not to offend anyone, Member. Not only in this room, but also in private, I try to behave simply decently and I think this is the right way. Mr. President! Well, Mr. Dziuba gave us this information about the competitions and what he thought were the mistakes in the staff policy of the Supreme Audit Chamber at the committee meeting, didn't he? It's in the papers. Those who are interested in this discussion that was then going on, I am really referring to the transcript, because there is much to learn from it. That is why I raised this point, and I was not the only one who raised it at the committee meeting, because the opposition Members were also interested in solving this problem. You mentioned here, also at the committee meeting, Mr. Vice President Dzieb. Well, his refusal, the decision not to vote, was because he said he didn't get to know the information that counted 500 pages until the very end... [[And we're doing it today. Here we go.]] ...and asked to be postponed. If you were to postpone the examination of this point, for example. For another day, you'd say, "I'm checking." Could Mr Dziuba not vote then? If this body, the College of the Supreme Auditorium, works collegially, then making a plea that he didn't take part in the vote is really some kind of misunderstanding. And already with a superb misunderstanding, ladies and gentlemen, please listen, it is on this basis that the President is directing the application to the prosecution and to the appeal of Mr Dziuby because he did not vote. Mr. President! You're doomed to cooperate with each other. [[Why... I don't understand.]] I appeal to you once again: correct your relations with the vice presidents, talk to the marshal because we cannot assume that even the flood is after us. The Supreme Audit Chamber is an institution that needs to be respected, and everything must be done to ensure that it functions as best as possible so that there are as little reservations as possible about its functioning. That can be done, and I appeal to you. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u479	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u480	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! According to the information presented in 2020, NIK has examined the issue of intermodal transport in a comprehensive manner and has defined on this basis barriers that hamper the development of this environmentally friendly mode of transport. The audit findings indicate that the fundamental barrier to its development is the lack of an integrated approach to creating favourable conditions for it. While the minister responsible for transport has identified strategic needs and identified directions for action, he has not developed a comprehensive programme in this area. Sectoral programmes were under way, but, as NIK pointed out, these programmes lacked integrated measures to ensure that rail and road investment is linked to development and good organisation of intermodal terminal networks. Furthermore, the Minister has not identified the target network of terminals or their spatial concept, which is crucial for the full exploitation of the potential of infrastructure investments. Such omissions indicate a lack of involvement of the Ministry in this important area and a lack of willingness to support solutions for intermodal transport. This is extremely surprising because Poland is already among countries which have a very low share of intermodal transport. In addition, other countries, recognising the multidimensional beneficial impact of this mode of transport, support these solutions in different ways. I would therefore like to ask you to clarify whether, after the inspection, the Minister of Infrastructure provided the President of NIK with information on the change of approach and the strengthening of activities supporting intermodal transport.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u481	The Commission for State Control recommends not to adopt a report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2020. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. [[President of the Supreme Chamber of Control Marian Banaś: Excuse me, Marshal. May I refer to the President's statement?]] You're welcome, Mr. Chairman. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u482	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I just wanted to point out to you that all members of the college had the opportunity to read this report within 7 days and no one other than Mr Dziuba had any comments that he had not read it. Secondly, I wanted to point out that just as far as Mr Dziuba is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dziuba has not carried out a single check in his life. Meanwhile, he wants to argue with controllers who have had years of experience, he wants to argue with very professional people and change their findings. And that's mostly what this is about, isn't it? It was simply not about any comments (the bell) to the information, but it was about not being followed as far as the information concerning the Justice Fund is concerned.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u483	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 37th meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I'm closing the list. Please, the first Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u484	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Belchats. I don't think there's a Pole who couldn't pinpoint this city on the map of our country. The inhabitants of nearby Piotrków Trybunalski with a snack sometimes say that in order to tell someone where this Piotrków is, it is best to say: near Bełchatów. Before Bełchatów became important and famous, he was a small, small town. The first mention of the settlement dates back to the end of the 14th century. In the mid-18th century, the city developed slowly and only when the great weaving industry appeared in Bełchatów at the beginning of the 19th century, its population increased to several thousand. But only 1975 was the beginning of the city's rapid development. Found in 1960, a considerable amount of brown coal had led the authorities to build, as it was then called, the Mining and Energetic Bełchatów Team. The mining capacity, estimated at almost 40 million tons per year, was designed in 1988 by the Bełchatów mine. It is worth noting that the Bełchatów have so far been producing about 40 million tons of lignite per year. There's been a violent population spike in the city. New housing estates were created, public transport, even railway lines. Bełchatów attracted more and more people not only from surrounding towns but also from other parts of the country. Referring to the paraphrase about Gdynia - it was said that it is a city of the sea - the Bełchatów can be said and I think everyone will agree that it is a city associated with coal or a city of coal. Its image is dominated by large settlements, mostly from a large album, which may appear to be unattractive from the visual side, but the large area of urban green areas compensates for this inconvenience. Next to it were many water reservoirs, where people - inhabitants of Bełchatów can rest. But the heart of the city is an industrial complex. This one is today called Polish Mining and Energy Mining and Conventional Energy SA, Branch in Bełchatów. The Bełchatów Power Plant is Europe's largest coal power plant producing brown coal energy. It is defined as the foundation of energy security of our country, because it produces 1/4 of energy in Poland. 12 energy blocks are currently being exploited. The power plant emits quite a lot of greenhouse gases, but it is the least active when it comes to CO emissions Forsaking sophisticated environmental standards in Brussels without understanding the Polish local specificity can lead to conflict against this background. We'll end coal mining someday. And then what? Will the change of coal fuel to nuclear fuel, as is increasingly said, provide further development for Belchatov? Is this the right alternative? And then what about the people working in this industrial city? These questions cannot now be answered unambiguously. In view of the ecological challenges, Belchat is undoubtedly facing change. Unfortunately, we do not know what they will be, but we wish this city and these people all the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u485	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u486	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The resolution of the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland 2021 was proclaimed the Year of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in connection with the 120th anniversary of his birth and the 40th anniversary of his death. September 12th this year Cardinal Beatification took place in the Temple of Divine Providence in Warsaw. Stefan Wyszyński and the mother of Elżbieta Róża Chacka. It is a great holiday for Poles and, above all, for the Catholic Church in Poland. It is difficult to imagine the latest history of the Polish nation without card. Wyszynski. There would be no Pope of the Holy Pole. John Paul II, had it not been for the heroic attitude, the love of God and the homeland of the Primate of the Millennium. Primate Wyszyński strongly opposed the dominance of the Catholic Church by Communists. In the memorial of the Polish Episcopate in 1953, corresponding to attempts to subjugate the Church, the communist authorities found famous words: The things of God on the altar of the emperor are not allowed to lay down. Non possumus - we won't allow it. These words prompt us to reflect on the phenomenon of the modern world that we politicians must say decisively non possumus. Not long after reading the memorial on the feast of the patron saint of the capital of Blessed Virgin Mary. Władysława from Gielniów was illegally arrested by Primate Stefan Wyszyński. Three years of internment, suffering and harassment were to destroy his authority and the Church in Poland, and paradoxically produced fruit for the following years. The Primate of the Millennium Stefan Wyszyński, while in prison, developed and conducted a great pastoral program in Poland, which consisted of Jasna Góra's Weddings of the Nation, the 9-year-old Great Novena and the celebration of the millennium of Poland's baptism. It was the largest program of the Church in Poland since Christianity. Cardinal. Wyszynski said to his compatriots: Only eagles soar over the sounds and do not fear the abyss, winds and storms. You must have something in you of eagles - the heart of eagles and the eyes of eagles towards the future. You must harden and lift the spirit to be able to fly like eagles over the games into the future of our homeland. The Holy Father John Paul II called us all to take this great spiritual heritage which the Primate of the Millennium left behind. His legacy is not a monument, it is not a past, it is something out of date, it is an authentic, living element of our identity. Each of us has the right, opportunity and duty to further explore the teaching and attitudes of this great Pole's life, to draw from his power and wisdom. It is a great responsibility and opportunity to build a strong Poland in Europe based on Christian values, unity, solidarity and peace. The first message resulting from the life and learning of cardinals. Wyszynski is the truth about the great, unconditional dignity of man and respect for the life of the human person from conception to natural death. Despite constant persecution and accusations, the Primate of the Millennium truly loved his homeland, more than his own heart. He felt the son of Polish land and defended his right to participate in life and matters of his homeland. Cardinal. Wyszyński pointed out that the foundation of a righteous system is always respect for the rights of the human person. He understood people's work, applied for their rights, for a just reward, for the right to rest, respect, freedom and faith. That wisdom contained in the teaching of cardinals. We can't miss Wyszynski. Like the Primate, a nation should be led with courage, wisdom, and discretion. A few days after the cardinal's beatification, let us consider whether we and our children will be faithful to the legacy of the Primate of the Millennium. It is our duty to raise the young generation in the spirit of patriotism and love of our sacred values, such as family, God, homeland and honor. Today we should learn from the blessed great experience of faith, respect for the dignity of every man and the love of the nation, because it is the foundation of our identity today and tomorrow. Primate orientations should enter family, political and social life. We face a challenge, especially for the young generation. May the next generations draw from the source of faith, wisdom, courage and patriotism of the great Pole blessed. Stefan Wyszyński. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u487	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Soin, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u488	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On the occasion of the Festival of Lower Silesian Breeders - XXV Regional Exhibition of Breeding Animals organized by the Lower Silesian Agricultural Advisory Centre in the Prince, I would like to thank all breeders and congratulate them on their passion for continuing their breeding traditions. This ceremony was the culmination of work and human passion. She summarized the achievements of generations of breeders and showed their love for animals, small brothers. I would like to mention here the figure of St. Francis, who saw wisdom and harmony in the animal world. He felt that they should be treated with love and respect. St. Francis is most often associated with this amazing kindness shown to animals that we can learn from him. The animals are undoubtedly the pride of their breeders who love them like the holy one. The work of the breeder shall not be merely work carried out within a specified period of time. It is accompanied by concern for a living being, a creature whose fate man has in his hands. It is a work done with total dedication and commitment, a work that is not always easy and light, and sometimes involves considerable financial burdens. I would like to thank the breeders for this effort. I would also like to thank the Lower Silesian agricultural institutions which have cooperated in the organisation of ceremonies such as: the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, the National Agricultural Support Centre, the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, breeding centres, breed societies, and everyone from Lower Silesia who participated in the preparation of the ceremony. I give special thanks to the organizer of the Lower Silesian Agricultural Advisory Centre for the daily support of farmers and breeders in their daily activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u489	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u490	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! All Polish and foreign passengers who use domestic air services have just learned that, as part of the New Deal, the government is giving them another significant price increase. Someone who seems to be obsessed with the destruction of domestic airports has figured out that from 1 January 2022 up to 70% terminal charges will increase and up to 26% - en route charges and that this will be charged to our regional airports, including the regional port in Bydgoszcz. For Polish voivodships and for voivodship airports this means an increase in costs and a loss of competitiveness vis-à-vis their counterparts in the European Union, for passengers it will mean a significant increase in travel costs, for cargo transport - driving and so high inflation, and for global carriers it is unfortunately another proof that in the issue of serious treatment of investors of Poland in the United Rights it is a banana republic. Prime Minister, you do not need to be a particularly great specialist to know that there is a high probability that foreign carriers will be looking for other bases and airports for their airlines in Europe thanks to such unwise policy. It's weird trying to translate these raises. The State Air Navigation Agency, where these increases are supposed to go, claims that due to the fact that it was COVID and lockdown, there was less revenue and now Mr. President is not enough for the first one. Except the State Air Navigation Agency has its master and owner. The agency is under the Ministry of Infrastructure, probably personally under your Deputy Minister Horala, and not to ports and passengers, the President of the Agency should report for money and report on his problems. In my interpellations and speeches to the Prime Minister and to the Government, I have repeatedly stressed the extent to which the impact of the epidemic has been affected by Polish regional airports, which, despite numerous interventions, could not get any real help from the government. Therefore, from this point of view, I call on the Prime Minister not to transfer the government to carriers, airports or passengers the financial problems of the State Air Navigation Agency and other government aviation institutions. I ask that the Prime Minister carry out his ownership duties and support them financially simply from the state budget. Such policies are currently being pursued by other European governments, taking care of national, i.e. their own, airports and their regions. Air transport development and accessibility are the norm for every European country in the 21st century. On behalf of Polish regional airports and on behalf of my constituents, I would like to ask the Prime Minister not to withdraw Poland from the 100th anniversary by inappropriate decisions and lack of thinking in the state criteria. Prime Minister! I'm counting on you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u491	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u492	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Lubushus! You're the one I'm addressing this evening to announce the events that are about to happen this weekend ahead of us, and the next. You will be able to attend the celebrations, the parties I took under my parliamentary patronage. This patronage is also, of course, linked to a form of support for these events, both through cooperation with and funding for organisations and associations that host them. So would you be gracious, inhabitants of the district of Górski, Żar and surroundings, to arrive tomorrow and Sunday for the reactivation of the traditional Bałakan border song festival - Reactivation, which event is financed by the National Cultural Centre under the programme "EtnoPolska" (EtnoPolska), edition 2021? Effectively, the support from this program was sought by the Association of Mothers of Subsidiarity and Goodness, which served them with a limit society. Orląt Lwowskich and Mr.Józef Tarniów made the effort to pursue these measures, because they were simply obtained on the basis of cooperation with the border society, substantive cooperation, and to undertake the effort to reactivate the festival that did not take place in the course of the pandemic last year. So I invite you for 2 days, September 18, 19th, in the company of a wine and honey festival organized by the beekeeper's company and the beautification company of the Żar. We invite you to the glowing market, to listen to the line songs and sing them together, to return to the memory of the border culture, but also to enjoy the fact that we, Lubuszanie, who have our pedigree from behind Bug, from the East, can remember it. This event is gnarly, listen, it also has one element regarding the fact that regionalists will meet on Saturday at hours. 17 in the centre of culture, the centre of continuous and professional education, in order to debate how to infect the young generation with folk culture and border culture. Regionalists will debate, but our listeners will be young people, among others. of the sports association.Sokół, which is willing to take over the chopstick and continue the Great Balakania in agreement with the border society. Orląt Lvivskich. That's what I was talking about about the Żarów, but let me also boast that there will be a lot going on under my patronage in Świebodzin. Namely, on Saturday, which is also tomorrow, or at hours. 16... Wait, I've got a note, I'm gonna download it, so you don't get misled... Yes, sir. About an hour. 16 in Świebodzin will be traditionally based on the activity of reconstructive groups reconstructing the time of the manhunt, of course in the context of September 17, in the context of World War II. I would like to thank you, Mr Mark Wojdan, his scouting environment and Świebodzin's reconstruction groups, the house of culture in Świebodzin, the Polish Army from Międzyrzecz, that we were so wonderfully able to communicate and prepare this event, as well as the historical exhibition, which will be opened at the cultural house on Monday at hours. 10. We are going to open an exhibition showing history: the District Security Office in Świebodzin. Victims and torturers. You're welcome. We still have many events ahead of us in the Krosnieński district and in the Bee as well. Let's meet at these community events showing our history of Lubusian land and shaping our Lubusian identity. Happy birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u493	Thank you, sir. The next statement will be made by Hanna Gill-Friday. The Member doesn't have one. Mr Artur Łącki. And neither is your Member. Mrs Anna Maria Siarkowska. There isn't either. Please, Mrs Teresa Nolas, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u494	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! September 17, 1939 is the date of the symbol. It's the date of treason and deception. Kulis of agreements that led to Soviet aggression. On that day, the ideology of Soviet Russia was supported by the ideology of Nazi Germany, and their joint parade on 22 September in Brest on Bug is a manifesto of an alliance. Poland defends itself. They defend themselves against Vilnius, Grodno, Kodziowce and the Augustow Forest. The Soviets are fought by General Franciszek Kleeberg as the commander of the Independent Operations Group. General Wilhelm Orlik-Rückemann's troops are fighting battles at the Shack and the Guidelines. The Soviets commit numerous murders on soldiers of the Polish Army. Many of them are prisoners of war. They murder in a disgraceful way civilians: Scouts from Grodna, landowners, rich peasants or priests. And all of them are assigned by the occupier as enemies of the people. Under Sopoćkini, the Soviets are killing General Józef Olszyn-Wilczyński and his adjutant Captain. Mieczysław Strzemeski. In Grabowec in Lublin, there is a conflict between Red Army troops and two Kowel cavalry squadrons. After the war, the Soviets murder all prisoners, then staff and patients in the field hospital. Many Poles are waiting for deportations, cattle wagons, lagers and sibir, UB catholics, hood courts, more murders and years of prison. Ladies and gentlemen! Such historical facts and such stories based on these facts can be cited many, but each of these stories shows what war madness is capable of and the man behind it. The eternal memory of heroes. Peace be with you, Polish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u495	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u496	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The next stage of the pandemic and the fourth wave of COVID-19 in many countries. In Poland the number of illnesses and hospitalizations is increasing overnight. Hospitals and ventilators are primarily infected with non-vaccination against this disease. This accounts for more than 70% COVID-19 disease. The level of occupation of COVID troops is increasing and will increase, as we have not achieved collective immunity, which can be achieved by vaccination. Anti-vaccine movements will reap their negative harvest: unnecessary deaths and severe complications. Nearly a month ago, the Sejm adopted a law on a systematic increase in health expenditure for 2021 and 2027. This is the first law from the Polish Load program, which ultimately indicates 7% in 2027. GDP for health protection. However, for a few days now, a group of people who have been known to represent health workers, supposedly all groups of this environment, have formed a white town, a white protest, involving police and security measures 24 hours a day in front of the Council of Ministers, demanding 8% GDP, i.e. growth already by about PLN 100 billion in health expenditures, including wage increases by 30%. Does this protest group represent the entire medical community? Unfortunately, it's a group of people making the thesis. Unacceptable, these are unrealistic demands. I am convinced that this climate is not conducive to public acceptance of this protest and that it can only give rise to dislike and hostility to medical practitioners who are watching this protest by the people of Warsaw and watching this protest in the media of citizens. The largest trade unions of the NSZZ and OPZZ representatives of health professionals sat down for a dialogue with the Minister of Health, while the protesting group rejected the proposal to participate in this body, which means that dialogue is not its aim. I am convinced that the vast majority of health professionals, doctors, nurses, medical rescuers and other health care groups do not identify with the current protest and its organizers. They work and they want to work. They want to serve their work to patients with and suffering from COVID-19 and other diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u497	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u498	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to draw attention to the doubts raised by the draft law on amending the Construction Law and the Law on spatial planning and development. The reform of spatial planning is undoubtedly very desirable and necessary, although the introduction of changes in the presented state may consequently deepen urban chaos and increase legal gaps in the revised area. The bill presented compared to the one made available in the context of public consultation and opinion contains so far-reaching changes that it cannot be seen as a new project in principle, as it differs significantly from the one previously made available on the Government's Legislative Centre's website. Accepted procedure over WW. The bill is inadmissible. The draft was presented to the public for consultation in a categorized version, and then - before the drafter referred to the comments submitted and was completely omitted - presented the relevant one, which will no longer be able to be consulted. Such action is a deliberate misdirection of the participants in the legislative process. It is therefore appropriate to re-submit this completely new draft law for public opinion and consultation. Let us also point out that the scope of the changes significantly interferes with the activities of public institutions, including in particular local government units, but also all institutions which agree on draft decisions on the conditions of construction and land-use, by radically shortening their deadline for agreeing draft decisions. The conclusion in the impact assessment that the only impact of the law on municipalities will be a shorter deadline for issuing decisions on housing conditions, and the financial consequences for the budgets of local government units are zero, is a misguided thinking approach. The proceedings concerning the issue of building conditions are the longest, often exceeding the deadline of 100 days, and the main reason for such dragging procedures is staff shortages. It is clear that, in this situation, local authorities will not have the opportunity or the means to adapt to the new requirements regarding the deadlines for issuing decisions, which will result in the imposition of sanctions on them by the voivodships. Alternatively, they will have to increase employment, which also has financial implications. The fiscal negative effect on local governments is therefore evident. The government proposal assumes, among other things, Allowing the construction of single-family houses with an area of up to 70 m It is worth noting that W. The aim of the project was to organise this area, and in fact it contains rules that are dead or which can easily be avoided, which will aggravate the chaos in urban planning and we cannot allow that to happen. These are just a few controversial assumptions that require concrete changes. In the interest of a slight simplification of procedures, it is not possible to reduce the security standards for the implementation of investments. In Poland there are already known cases of even fatal accidents caused (The Bell) by the wrong construction of temporary buildings. At least indicate the sensitive stages of investment in which professional supervision would continue to be mandatory. I have provided the Minister of Infrastructure in the form of interpellation with detailed provisions that raise doubts as to the appropriateness of their introduction, and I hope that the revision of this area will be carried out correctly, and the proposed provisions will change in order to prevent the deterioration of the chaos in urban planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u499	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u500	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I would like to express my great outrage that Prime Minister Morawiecki has not met so far and is not going to meet with the doctors protesting under his law firm and camping there for more than a week. During that time, the Prime Minister was able to meet with the President of PHPN and other groups, while he did not find time for doctors, nurses, doctors, paramedics and other groups of health professionals. In order to show them that he is in charge here, it does not really hurt this professional group - although, of course, they suffer very much because they cannot negotiate about the conditions they care about - but it really harms us, society, patients, patients who benefit and can benefit from health protection. Worse still, failing to meet this important professional group in the face of a health disaster is an outrage, it is absolutely unacceptable. I therefore appeal to the Prime Minister: finally meet with the doctors, with the doctors, with the nurses and talk like a human being, and make a deal so that health care, health care finally gets to the highest level and that people can benefit from the best health care services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u501	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u502	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 17 September 1939, the Red Army, fulfilling the provisions of the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact, and breaking the Polish-Soviet non-aggression pact, carried out an armed assault on Poland. The gehenna of Poles living in the East began. Okay. 200,000. Polish citizens were arrested and forced to accept Soviet citizenship. The export of Poles to Siberia covered about 1.5 million women, men and children. Okay. $25,000. Officers and police officers were killed in Katyn, Kharkov, Mednoje and Tver. Russia's aggression was closely coordinated with the aggression of Germany, who then murdered under the name: the Third Reich, which attacked Poland on 1 September 1939. Political forgery is the application of euphemisms to these countries, such as: the Soviet Army crossed the Polish border, the Soviet Army entered, the Soviet Army invaded, etc. Nor can it be said that Werhmacht entered Poland because it sounds very strange. Germany invaded Poland on 1 September and Russia invaded Poland on 17 September 1939. The provisional names of the countries are important, because in any case they indicate the time. However, we need to know clearly who is responsible for the deaths of millions of Poles and Poles. Tsar Russia, Bolsheviks, Soviets, Soviet Union, etc. The names are Russia and the Russians. On the other hand, Prusacy, fascists, Nazis and Nazis are Germans. But this was not the beginning of the tragedy of the Polish nation. During the years of partitions in Siberia, participants of national uprisings were sent: Kościuszkowskiego, November, January, nobility, intelligence and all those who dreamed of free and independent Poland. When in 1918. After 123 years of captivity, Poland regained independence, from the corners of Russia, Siberia, Kazakhstan, thaigi and desert, returning to the country Poles. They were connected by exile, prison, hunger and death of loved ones, but also by the sacred plan of rebuilding their homeland. They did it. On 17 September, it was established the Sybirak Day to commemorate all Poles sent to Siberia and other areas of Russia. These are events to be remembered and to be remembered by the young generation. He has the right. This is to be done by everyone, regardless of the political option, although sadly it is noted that it is PiS who has usurped the right to own all national celebrations, to be the only righteous in the assessments of historical facts and the only right to present them. I'm the son of a sibirate and the grandson of a sibirate. I assure you that I will always cultivate the memory of sibirians and their difficult fates, passing on knowledge and identity to the younger generation. I will continue to help, to support the associations of sibiraks and sibiraks themselves, as I have actively done and continue to do. Thank you for your efforts and your suffering, because of it free Poland was created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u503	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u504	Declaration on Polish-Taiwan cooperation and the transfer of 400 thousand by Poland. doses of vaccine against COVID-19 Taiwan. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As president of the Polish-Taiwan Parliamentary Team, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the flourishing Polish-Taiwan cooperation. At the beginning of the pandemic Taiwan gave Poland 1 million protective masks, 5 thousand. Protective suits and 20,000. surgical aprons. It was a huge gesture of solidarity that we have not been indifferent to now. I am grateful that we have decided to give Taiwan 400,000. doses of vaccine. The vaccines arrived in Taiwan on 7 September. I am convinced that the common links between our countries will continue to deepen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u505	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! For months now, in order not to say for years, the whole of Europe has lived on the issue of refugees. Thousands of so-called refugees are camping at borders, trying to get to Europe illegally. Recent developments in Afghanistan, the Taliban's takeover of the regime led to the mass migration of the Afghan population to Europe. The border of our country, the border of the European Union, or actually the border of our country, has become the target of thousands. The question is: Are you sure the refugees fearing for their lives? Recently, Afghan refugees registered at the borders of the EU countries with Belarus a few days after the occupation of Kabul. About $4,000. Up to 5,000. Those desperate, poor people beat in a few days. More questions arise. How? Are you sure they're refugees? Who and with what intentions wants to cross the borders of the European Union, claiming to be a threatened Afghan? It is worth recalling events from such Western European countries as France, Germany and Spain. The citizens of these countries have experienced what Muslim radicalism is, the distorted idea of shahid, the method of action of the Islamic State. There's more to it than that. The borders of our country are the borders of the European Union. We are bound by treaties to protect them, also against the influx of illegal migrants into Europe. Do we all understand that? A Galloping Member of the opposition across the border with a bag of bananas, pork canned for Muslims, activists destroying security, crying doctors over sick people, poor people camping between Poland and Belarus. Farce. There are also political celebrities who insult soldiers and services that guard our borders, the borders of the European Community. The President of Belarus and not only does he wipe his hands. A stream of dollars for transportation so-called. refugees, unrest at the border, domestic disputes in the EU's neighbouring countries. It is worth considering who it serves, who benefits from it, and what it can lead to. There is no doubt that those in need, who are in danger, must be helped. It's natural and undisputed. Such assistance was provided by the Polish State to Afghans who cooperated with Poland and with the institutions of the European Union. Poland took responsibility for its allies. However, all aspects, conditions and consequences of the aid must be taken into account. The Polish government, the army, the border services are supposed to protect us, our country from all dangers, including illegal influx of migrants or who prefers refugees. We have the right to feel safe in our own country.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u506	Majesty and generational wealth of Polish forests. A personal hymn of praise to the State Forests. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Nicer woods, if they're on the globe, let them be. To me, Polish forests are a masterpiece of nature. It is a personal reference to Stefan Żeromski, who so beautifully described his beloved place on earth - the Valley of the Church. I admire the mysterious, beautiful and multicolored and even breathtaking forests on the globe (some I personally touched), but it is in Polish charming forests that I feel like a child of the universe and I can truly explore the essence of the unsurpassed spiritual feast contained in the sensance nec plus ultra. Only in the Polish forest, unique and peculiar, patriotic and with rich history, my place on earth feels good, I charge my battery, really relax and sometimes blend into the harmony of nature of my Polish forest. And above all, I see and feel the hand of a good host - the State Forest Forest Farm, which was and is subordinate to the Ministry of the Environment. Peace, ordering, professionalism, long-term forest management strategy. A model for Europe and a world that pursues the principle of sustainable and multifunctional forest management. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! PGL State Forests are the largest organisation in the European Union managing forests belonging to the Treasury. The organisation of State Forests, which has been perfected for decades, is based on the principle of self-financing possible through the existence of so-called. Forest Fund. That's why the Forests don't use taxpayers' money. Forest units operate at national, regional and local level. State Forests employ 25,000. persons. They are the ninth largest employer in Poland. In Poland, about 375 thousand people work in forestry-related industries. people, i.e. on average every 40 Pole working. Polish foresters are not only working and caring for forests, it is also their passion. It is mandatory and appropriate to carry out its mission of State Forests - forest management on behalf of society, reconciling the needs of nature and man in many dimensions: natural, social and economic, as well as environmental humanism. They manage on 1/4 of the Polish area, a particularly valuable part, because forests grow on it. More importantly, the part that is systematically growing, because the efforts of foresters are increasing! Foresters acquire wood within the limits set by environmental standards, scientific research and 10-year plans for forest equipment approved by the Minister for the Environment. The State Forests acquire wood, but at the same time they renovate the stands and forest their former wasteland. Every year, foresters plant as many as 500 million different species of new trees, or on average 57 thousand. for an hour. Thus, they prove that meeting our demand for wood and ensuring the sustainability of forests are not conflicting interests! So wood in Poland is a natural wealth, which is completely renewable! This is the impossible that Polish foresters are doing! We're getting over 30 million meters. Poland is at the forefront of the European forest area. Currently, the forest area in our country is over 9.2 million ha, which corresponds to the forest density of 29.6%. The vast majority are state forests, of which about 7.3 million ha are managed by the State Forests State Farm. In Poland, forests continue to arrive. The country's Lesity was increased from 21% in 1945 to 29.6% presently. The foundation of forest works is the National Foresting Programme. In 2020, the forests occupied about 30% of the country's surface and in 2050 they were expected to occupy 33%. As I mentioned, the State Forests carry out their tasks and objectives in a multidimensional manner. Thus they include reserves as separate areas with specific natural values, landscape parks created in areas with exceptional natural and aesthetic and landscape value. They also organise natural monuments, protection zones set up to protect the sites and sites of plants or fungi protected by species or species conservation, breeding sites and the regular presence of animals protected by species. Further, ecological pastures - charming and somewhat secret places in the form of small water mesh, interpolated streams of trees and shrubs, peat bogs, swamps and dunes. State Forests also take their own conservation initiatives. They help selected species of animals and plants to settle places where these species are extinct - re-inductions or where they are threatened with extinction - restitutions. I would add that national parks are in an excellent part supported financially from the abovementioned LP Forest Fund. PGL State Forests are an active part of the EU's sustainable economy in the European Green Deal (the European Green Deal), mainly in the task of combating biodiversity loss and reducing pollution levels. Hunting is an integral part of protecting the natural environment. In addition to hunters for forest animals, foresters also take care of foresters. There are 207 hunting circuits in their territory. It is made up of 141 animal breeding centres (OHZ). Foresters are involved in determining the size of forest game, which is necessary for the proper management of animal populations. At this point my additional comment: in my parliamentary office, as well as in the branches of the office, I receive many signals, sometimes very disturbing, about the mutual relations between hunters, foresters and farmers on the disputed issues concerning the estimation of hunting damages and compensation for them, and above all about the excessive burden of hunting wheels in compensation payments for damage caused by forest animals. Payment of very significant amounts of compensation while halting commercial hunting (e.g. for foreigners) leads to the bankruptcy of hunting circles and the resignation of many hunters. In my view, these issues need to be addressed urgently. Hunters and foresters, together with the State Veterinary Inspection, cooperate in preventing the spread of African swine fever (ASF) in the population of wild boars living in our forests and thus help protect domestic swine flocks from ASF virus. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I admire and am grateful to Polish foresters for other valuable and noble initiatives, among others. for patriotic upbringing. Polish foresters organize many valuable celebrations and take initiatives aimed at caring and loving memory of places commemorating tragic insurgent events, battles from World War I and II, about the heroism of Polish soldiers. LP employees also do not forget the graves of the forest people who have been involved in the service of their native nature in the framework of the government's multi-annual programme for the years 2017 and 202022. Many memorial sites are directly connected with foresters who died for their homeland's freedom during national wars and uprisings. Foresters are always faithful to the motto: "Home is earth and graves." The nations, losing their memory, are losing their lives. Polish foresters are raising in spiritual values. They actively refer to the care of God's providence. In 2020 it took place on 24. Pilgrimage of Polish Foresters to Jasna Góra. The State Forests are also the background music of the forest. Forest Techniquem im. Adam Loret (first director of State Forests) in Tuchola with the State Forest Representative Orchestra and the Hunter Signalists' Team, which I had the pleasure of listening to - signals, fanfares and marches, as well as the Forest Technicum in Starościn (gm. Słubice), on the edge of the Rzepińska Forest, which I have warm memories of, because I hosted quite a number of representation on a 5-day trip to the EP in Brussels. The State Forests signed an agreement with the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways (January 2021) on the management of rainwater and melt water. This is an increase in retention capacity and the prevention of drought in forest ecosystems with the possibility of being used for fire-fighting purposes or in the event of natural disasters. It is a very good initiative and very much needed. It is also the co-ownership of road safety on forest sections using logistics and forest service experience in cases of fallen trees after intense storm or during storms. Barteering returns to the Polish Forests in order to create a forest population of honeybee, paying tribute to the old Polish maxim: the best to sweet honey from the barn log. It is worth noting that the bartnic culture in Poland was included in the Representative List of Inmaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity (December 2020 at the 15th session of the Intergovernmental Committee in Paris). NDKL). As also a practicing doctor, I am full of admiration and gratitude for another noble action of Polish foresters helping the most deprived. The State Forests, in cooperation with the National Blood Center, organized an action of blood donation and its components and plasma from the healers after COVID-19 disease. National action Forest plasma, forest blood. Give life It began on January 27, 2021 and will last until the end of this year. Edward Sark, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Climate and Environmental Affairs, acting representative of the government, was the first to share a priceless part of each other. forestry and hunting, and Andrew Necessary, former General Director of State Forests. Let's hear it! Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Forests are the real gift of nature's mother. It's an irreplaceable oxygen life-giving factory, and at the same time it's absorbing. CO In 1924 Polish State Forests were established! So the State Forests are 97 years old! They were granted a new statute in 1994. The law introduced the concept of Forest Service. The need for sustainable forest conservation and the continuity of its multifunctional use by current and future generations has been stressed. In 3 years the 100th anniversary of the host of the Polish Forest - State Forest Farm. A good host. Thank you! God bless you!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u507	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Next week in Bydgoszcz there will be a celebration for the central celebration of the National Tax Administration Day. The National Tax Administration was established in 2017 with the need to ensure the financial stability of the State. It was also a response to the expectations of many entrepreneurs who wanted to conduct business on a fair and equal footing. Its creation was a huge support for the Polish government in the fight against tax fraud, as well as organized criminal groups. Currently, the National Tax Administration is able to meet social needs and respond to a dynamically changing economic environment. We celebrate the celebration of all those who are committed to carrying out an extremely responsible mission to ensure stable and sustainable public finances. Those whose effective actions allow the implementation of the budgetary assumptions and social programmes of our government. On this solemn day I would like to express my appreciation and gratitude to all those who with their diligent work and commitment constantly contribute to the development of the tax administration in Poland. It is a powerful asset of the independent, strong, wealthy and just Republic. Thanks to your sacrificial work, Polish potential is growing and economic crime is being fought. Dear Participants and Organizers of National Tax Administration Day Celebrations and Employees and Officers! Please accept the wishes of all success and every success in your personal and professional life. Let this responsible work and service for the good of the Republic be a source of satisfaction and a source of further professional motivation. I assure you of my support and deep respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u508	The Chojnices are undoubtedly one of the cities that first experienced the atrocities of the Germans during World War II. 1 September 1939 at 3 p.m. 4.45 to the Chojnice railway station instead of the planned train hurried relationship Berlin - the King ran an armored track which preceded the Wehrmacht armored train. The first civilians were killed - railroads, travelers who were shot at by German soldiers. Soldiers 1. Battalion of shooters and four. The Border Guard Regiment has been fighting against the 20th motorized division and the dispersants from Selbschutz on the western border of the Second Republic of Poland at the altitude of Władysławek. The first border guards and customs officers were killed. About an hour. 11 Germans enter the empty Chojnice. The second act of defense of Chojnice was the cavalry charge of 18 cavalrymen. The U.S. Pomeranian regiment. In the afternoon they charged to the German Wehrmacht camp from the 19th Armoured Corps of General Heinz Guderian. The battle took place under the Krojans. The Poles defeated the Germans, but the regiment was decimated, and during the fight the commander, Colonel Kazimierz Mastalerz, was killed. Chojnice experienced the German occupation in a terrible way. It was in the Podchojnice Valley of Death that representatives of Chojnice elite, teachers, activists of organizations and associations, merchants and entrepreneurs in the framework of Intelligenzaktion in Pomerania were murdered in the Igielski Fields. Several hundred were shot in the first months of the war in the autumn of 1939. Among the victims of the murder in the valley were also the residents of the Chojnice plant for mentally ill. On 1 September 2021 the inhabitants of Chojnice paid tribute to the heroic soldiers of September 1939, meeting for the first time at the Chojnice railway station at dawn, at the time of the Germans' attack on Poland. I am very pleased that the municipal authorities have organized ceremonies in the place where World War II began for the Chojniczans. Let it become a tradition. From this place I pay tribute to the defenders of Chojnice from September 1939, customs officers and border guards, soldiers 1. Battalion of Shooters, heroic protagonists 18. The U.S. Pomeranian regiment. I'm remembering all the civilian victims, the people who were murdered at the Choir Station and shot in the Valley of Death. Let the memory of this terrible time be a warning to all, which xenophobia and the sick ideology of hatred built on the slogans of the superiority of one nation over others can lead to.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u509	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! Energy prices are soaring. Energy companies report that energy prices can be up to 40% higher in 2022. The only way to stop such a strong rise in energy prices is to switch the economy to energy from green sources. This is important for many reasons. Energy prices affect the prices of goods and services because most of them require energy. High energy prices are therefore expensive. The most important challenge, however, is climate and air protection. If we do not stop the destructive power of fossil fuels, our planet will become very difficult to live on. We should do everything we can to protect her for future generations. Unfortunately, the government is doing everything it can to hinder the rapid transition to green energy sources. This is also the case for photovoltaic installations. Many Poles decided to invest in their own power plant by installing photovoltaic panels on the roof of the building or on the construction in the garden. They hoped that they would receive a grant from the program "My current." Unfortunately, it turned out that the government planned for this programme only PLN 534 million, while reducing the maximum amount of funding to PLN 3 000. zł. The recruitment started on 1 July 2021. The measures planned to support investors have been exhausted after 2 months. Poles who were hoping for funding feel deceived by the PiS government today. Today Poland needs a strong impulse, which will make the photovoltaic micro-installations even more widely hosted in homes and gardens. That's what it takes to care about the climate and our wallets. That is why I expect the government to direct additional funds to continue the programme, my current, allowing investment in photovoltaic installations. This is what citizens expect today.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u510	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We are concerned about the phenomenon of birth depression that has persisted for 30 years. In Poland there was a shift in the age of starting a family. According to the CSO in 2018, the median age of women giving birth was 30 years (compared to 26 years in 1990 and 2000). And although it seemed that the introduction of the 500+ benefit for the first child should encourage the child's efforts, this trend has not been significantly altered since the number of women of childbearing age is decreasing. According to UN projections in 2100. Poland can live only 23 million people, and in a negative scenario - less than 15 million people. Improving natural growth is a challenge for the whole political class, which is a task for the next generations. Low childhood in the 21st century could have negative consequences in many aspects, among others. in pension security. Today in the Sejm the first reading of the draft law of the Government of Law and Justice on family custody capital took place. He predicts that from next year on, parents will be entitled to a new benefit for the second and every subsequent child between 12 and 36 months of age with a maximum total amount of 12,000. Evil on the baby. The benefit will be paid by the Social Security Office in monthly instalments of PLN 500 per year for 2 years or 1 thousand per year. for a year. Support will be independent of family income and the benefits will not be taxed. The purpose of the United Right Government is primarily to get out of the trap of low childhood in which Poland is located, but also in other countries of the European Union. Thus, family care capital is to be another government-led instrument supporting families. Its aim is primarily to cover part of the care expenses for the second and subsequent children, and to encourage parents to make decisions about expanding their family. This groundbreaking witness will be covered by more than 600 thousand. children. Care capital will also be an instrument that will help link work and family life.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-17-sejm-37-3.u511	Information about the impact of interpellations and queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 37th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 38th session of the Sejm, convened on 29, 30 September and 1 October 2021, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 22 min 45]]
