ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Infrastructure - hour 9, - Economics and Development together with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h.m. 10, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 10, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 10.30, - to the European Union in conjunction with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at 3 p.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism together with the Health Commission - h.m. 13, - Infrastructure - hour 2.30 p.m., - Public Finance - hour. 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u2	Thank you very much. I have a request for messengers and Members who will take the floor to put the card in the reader. There it is. That's a request for everyone. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 5 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time of reply to the additional question and, as you know, will express. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with question 10. There was a request from Members to change the order a little bit because of business matters, departures. Therefore, Members Joanna Borowiak, Anna Milczanowska and Lidia Burzyńska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the implementation of the programme for the circles of rural hostels, with particular emphasis on the Łódź, Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Silesia voivodships. This is a question to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development will answer it, Minister Ryszard Bartosik. Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The history of the activities of rural hostels in Poland dates back to the second half of the 19th century. The ingenuity and activity of Polish women have always been a testimony to how much can be done for others and for themselves. For more than 2 years, through the programme of the Government of Law and Justice, the rural hostel circles have become autonomous units by registering with the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Once the wheels are registered, they acquire legal personality, so they can also apply for money from external sources, e.g. may obtain funds from the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, the National Environmental Fund or the Orlen Foundation. Previously, the rural housewives had no such possibility. So far, there have been practically only women in the circles of the country hostess. Now it's changing. More and more gentlemen, more and more men want to act and operate in these organizations. The activities of the rural hostel groups support the development of the areas in which they operate, the areas of their local communities. Minister, I have a question about the implementation of the programme aimed at the circles of country-wide rural hostels, with particular emphasis on the Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Silesian and Łódź voivodships.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u4	Thank you very much, Member. We invite Minister Richard Bartosik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u5	Dear Marshal, Dear Members, On 29 November 2018, the Act of 9 November 2018 on the Wheels of Rural Housewives entered into force, which enabled the Circles to obtain legal personality by entering the National Register of Rural Housewives maintained by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The acquisition of this legal personality gives the village hostels the opportunity to function independently in legal transactions and allows to participate in various support systems implemented in Poland. From now on, these organisations can carry out economic activities, including economic activities, as well as raise funds for their activities from different sources. High Izbo! By targeting the registered stream of grants, many of them could activate their activities and create action plans for the future. Last year we financed nearly 10,000. wheels for a total amount of almost PLN 34 million. Thanks to the revised act, the number of such wheels will increase even further. For this year we planned 40 million PLN for rural hostels. On the basis of the experience gained in the application of the Rural Houses' Wheels Act, an analysis of the functioning of the existing rules has been carried out and we have come to the conclusion that it should be clarified. The entry in the National Register of Rural Housewives is sought not only by newly established circles, but also by organisations whose activities are identical to those of rural housewives' circles and which have obtained legal personality on the basis of separate regulations, e.g. associations. The proposed amendment of the Law of 9 November 2018 on the Wheels of Rural Houses clarifies the provisions of this Law, confirms and strengthens the guarantees of freedom to organise citizens in various structures, including freedom to create and operate the circles of rural hostess. We hope that the convenient forms of organisation and freedom of choice will stimulate greater social activity in rural areas. The draft amendment provides comprehensive regulation of issues related to the creation, organisation, operation and resolution of wheels. We change the rules determining the transfer of financial assistance to the rural hostels' collectives, we transfer the competence to provide assistance from the Minister responsible for regional development to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. There is also a decentralisation of the tasks related to the handling of applications submitted by the rural hostel groups. High Seym! Circles of rural hostels also help in the activity of the National Institute of Culture and Rural Heritage, which is tasked with, among others. promoting traditional folk culture and regional separation. The Institute has undertaken extensive cooperation with the rural hostels' circles, appreciating their very important role in the rural environment. Over the years, these organizations cultivated Polish tradition, promoted folk art and at the same time had a strong impact on the development of the Polish village. Today it is similar, although the circle of interest and the area of activity of these organisations is expanding considerably. Currently, the rural housewives' circles (The Bell) engage in local decision-making, affect social problems, initiate cultural events. Ladies and gentlemen! The law, as expected by the rural environments, fulfilled its task, causing the environment to activate. We return to cultivating local traditions, organizing events. The law was very well adopted by the groups of rural hostesses, by rural communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u6	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister examined and told us very carefully how the history of supporting these active rural environments focused on the circles of rural hostesses was, and he also preceded my supplementary question - about plans. He presented them in very detail here. Without a doubt, such help was necessary because it made the activists, as well as what my colleague said in front of me, more active activists who are now joining these associations. Perhaps otherwise, they felt autonomy, felt that what they were doing was also supported by the finances they were looking for, and not just those they received from the burgers. So their activities have been determined autonomously. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question, Minister - because I did not hear it - is what is the division of interest in the activities of the wheels, in Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Silesian and Łódź voivodships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u8	You're welcome, Minister. You did not hear this because the Minister simply did not say so. But now he's gonna tell you for sure. Oh, here she comes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yeah, I'm gonna try to pass on that information. In 2018, financial assistance from the state budget for all rural hostels' groups amounted to 16 295 thousand. PLN, over 29 million in 2019 and 32 871,000 in 2020. zł. During these 3 years a total of 78 863 thousand were transferred to the rural hostels' groups. zł. The rural hostels in the Silesian Voivodeship have received 2296 thousand in the last 3 years. PLN, in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship at the same time they were supported by the amount of 3943 thousand. PLN, while in the Łódź voivodship in the same years KGW received 6679 thousand. zł support. In addition, the rural hostel groups can benefit from Leader measures as well as from the RDP activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u10	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Frederick Kapinos and Teresa Pamuła from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask questions about ways of supporting family farms in the context of the new financial perspective and plans to promote agricultural products and processed agricultural products in Poland and abroad. This question will be addressed to the Minister present here. There you go, Mr Frederick Kapinos is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u11	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Mr Grzegorz Puda, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, spoke about family farms at the Europa Karpat conference. Referring to the UN report on Food and Agriculture, he said that they provide 80% to the world. Food using 75% land. According to FAO experts, only family farms are able to meet increasing food needs with shrinking land, crops and water resources. As regards this statement, I have a question for the Minister: How in Poland does the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development intend to support family farms in the context of the new financial perspective?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u12	You're welcome, Minister. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u13	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The solutions under the direct payment scheme for 20232027 are designed in such a way as to support, in particular, active small and medium-sized farms which have a real chance of developing in a globalised market and changing consumer expectations. The Strategic Plan for the Common Agricultural Policy for the period 2023-2027 provides for a variety of support instruments dedicated to family farms. SWOT analyses and the diagnosis of the agri-food sector have highlighted the high needs of ensuring adequate incomes of agricultural holdings, as well as the need to build resilience and competitiveness of these farms. In response also to farmers' demands, the draft plan proposes a number of support mechanisms to meet these needs. Investment support will be implemented as part of an intervention called "Investments in agricultural holdings to increase competitiveness'. The aim of the intervention is to increase market orientation and competitiveness of farms by rationalising production technologies, introducing modern ones, including digital, technology or innovation, changing production profiles, improving production quality, increasing product added value. As part of the intervention, it will be possible to carry out an operation involving the construction or modernisation of buildings or buildings for animal production using new technologies and to carry out operations on organic production holdings. Investments will have to lead to an increase in gross value added on the farm. In addition, the draft strategic plan for the CAP provides for the implementation of the intervention of the small farm development premium. She's also being realized right now. Aim of the above. intervention is to increase market orientation and competitiveness of farms, in particular by linking production with sales, spreading short chains, changing production profile, improving production quality. In addition, it is planned that the premium should be spent in line with the assumptions of the business plan, which should result in an increase in the market orientation of the holding expressed in particular in achieving a certain increase in the sales value of the products from the holding. Ladies and gentlemen, the strategic plan proposes such an approach, namely measures addressed to farmers producing animals and plants, which aim to support family farms in modernising production towards a greener and more digital economy. Many solutions for family farms will also be presented in the Polish Load program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u14	Thank you very much. I will ask Mrs Teresa Pamula for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u15	Minister! We know that food production in Poland is increasing, as is also demonstrated by the export of agri-food products. For example, in 2020 it was €34 billion, which was almost 14.3% all exports. The main partners are still the countries of the European Union. In 2020 the value of exports of agri-food products to the EU market increased by 5% - up to €27.2 billion, which is 80% income from exports of food goods. The other countries, Russia, Ukraine, Saudi Arabia are 20%. I would like to ask the Minister how, in a pandemic situation, the Minister, the Ministry plans to promote Polish food and Polish products abroad, so that, above all, (The Bell) will increase exports to countries outside the Union, but also increase exports to the countries of the Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u16	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! One of the priority tasks of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development is to promote Polish food both on the domestic market and on foreign markets. The aim of promotion and information activities in this area is to increase the competitiveness of Polish food in the country and in foreign markets. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and its subordinate National Agricultural Support Centre shall implement a common, dynamic and targeted policy to promote food products adapted to the current needs of the agri-food sector. The agricultural resort implements coherent information and promotion measures concerning Polish high-quality food and Polish products, including fishery and aquaculture products and their products, which aim primarily at shaping the positive image of Polish food in the country, European Union markets and third-country markets, increasing the recognition of Polish food brands in the country and on foreign markets, increasing the value of exports, including diversification and opening new markets with particular regard to third-country markets with the greatest potential for growth. In order to create a positive image of Polish food, as well as to increase the competitiveness of the Polish agri-food sector, the Ministry of Agriculture and KOWR implement among others. actions aimed at promoting agri-food products by organising information and promotion stands during national and foreign exhibition and trade fair events. As a result, both in Poland and abroad, a strong and recognizable brand of Polish food is being built. In a country under one motto, "Buy consciously" information and education activities are carried out regarding the designation "Polish product," organic farming, "Know good food," "Union" signs: "Protected designation of origin," "Protected geographical indication" and "Protected traditional speciality" as well as "Integrated plant production," [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the indications by GMOs - It was produced without the use of GMOs. This campaign is addressed to the national recipient. The National Agricultural Support Centre as a body supervised by the Ministry also implements promotional policy instruments in the agri-food sector. KOWR's offer is for all sectors of the sector. We also promote the action "Buy consciously." A significant emphasis is placed here on actions in the area of the designation of "Polish Product" due to the need to support internal demand for domestic agri-food products and organic farming in connection with the European Green Load strategy. We're going slowly to the end, Minister. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: All right, Marshal. In addition, the Ministry organises regular meetings with representatives of particular agri-food sectors, among others. to discuss and present planned information and promotion activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u18	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Mariusz Trepek and Waldemar Andzel of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the programme My water. The answer will be from the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment will answer Minister Ireneusz Zosta. You're welcome, sir. Mr Mariusz Trepka has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u19	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My water programme is an initiative aimed at mitigating the effects of drought in Poland and reducing flood risks through the construction of domestic rainwater stop installations. Any owner or co-owner of a single-family home may receive up to 5 000. zł. We know that many homeowners have already taken advantage of this. This is also a saving of water, which we should all save. This is a very valuable initiative. Minister! I would like to know how many applications and how much has been paid this year to the voivodship funds that have been allocated to the current budget, already the second call for the programme My water and until when can be applied for as part of the current call. I think that this initiative is very valuable, it will continue in the years to come, and many of the residents of the houses from my water will benefit by watering gardens or parcels at their homes - and in this way this economy and gardens will also be beautiful - a rainwater that they will stop at their properties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u20	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u21	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you so much for that question. I would like to say that the water retention programme, which was launched by the Ministry of Climate and Environment together with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management last year, has achieved very good results and is extremely needed. Well, ladies and gentlemen, my water programme is about to increase the retention of rainwater, prevent submersibles, and increase the proper use of water during drought periods. We often observe the phenomenon of unintelligible waste of rainwater. Therefore, Mr Michał Kurtyka, Minister of Climate and Environment, in implementing a broad programme of climate and energy policy in the field of his department, initiated a large programme of climate city, but also a programme of building green infrastructure and blue infrastructure in cities, as well as in rural areas. My water programme is dedicated to households, single-family houses, where it is possible to build an underground rainwater reservoir or a so-called "home" water reservoir. water mesh, and we have met with rather biting remarks, especially the opposition, that we support the construction of water mesh. Ladies and gentlemen, these requests are being verified by the services of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. These are installations. also to drain water, to irrigate, to use water just in the residential areas in such a way that it is as effective as possible. In answer to the question, I might also say, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2020, last year, the budget of this programme was slightly larger, because the programme met with an incredibly great interest of the beneficiaries. It exceeded PLN 100 million, amounting to exactly 110 200 thousand. zł. The program was used by 20,000. beneficiaries. The programme has been designed for the years 2020 to 20202024, so in the years to come it will continue and in the years to come there will be further editions. This year the budget amounts to PLN 100 million. As of May 17th - here I have the data from Monday - applications through Regional Environmental and Water Management Funds were submitted by 17 054 applicants, for a total amount of PLN 81 410 409. Conditions for obtaining funding: up to a maximum of 5 000 zł, of which not more than 80% the cost of implementing the project. The minimum cost of the notified investment is 2 000. zł, i.e. it cannot be an apparent act. Within the scope of this 2,000. PLN we can probably finance the construction of both the tank and the irrigation system. With larger installations, up to 5,000. zł, it really is a relatively small amount, but it allows large projects to be carried out in terms of storage, water retention and use for household purposes, of course in terms of irrigation, dilution and proper use of this rainwater. Applications may be submitted by electronic means this year by 10 June with an electronic signature. However, in the case of a written road, by correspondence, by 12 July such a request must already reach the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. If the budget of PLN 100 million is exhausted in advance, those proposals which will be received will, as a rule, not be considered as being included in the budget that we have set out for this year. As it is a multi-annual programme, they will receive funding in the following year, after the launch of the next edition. So that, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this question. I am also convinced, with information directly from the beneficiaries, that this is very much needed (The Bell), an important and successful programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u22	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mr Waldemar Andzel for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u23	Marshal, once again, Mr Trepek. Oh, good. I had written that Mr Andzel, but something... With Mr Andzel, we are and... Well, I'm glad you guys are so... Minister, thank you very much for this information. 100 million PLN, we see that there is a very high interest, 81 million, say, already allocated - already so many applications have been submitted by the beneficiaries for this amount. There's still 18 million left, you can say, right? And I would like to ask, so much closer to my place of residence, do you have such data as in the Silesian Voivodeship, which allocation of these funds to the Silesian Voivodeship is foreseen, or is not, because it is generally for NFOŚ, and NFOŚ simply transfers these funds to the various WFOŚ region depending on the beneficiaries. Is that understood? And I hope that after 2024 this program will continue, because it really is a high saving of water that we lack. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u24	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u25	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Mr President, I do not have detailed information today about the allocation of funds in the Silesian Voivodeship - here I declare that I will give this information to the Member in writing - and I would also like to mention the very important problem that we are dealing with when implementing this programme. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in central Poland, maybe I will not specifically mention the villages, especially in two powiats, which unfortunately differ so strangely from the rest of the territory of Poland, is such a practice used in the departments of building the district Old Town, district government, that it is necessary to permit the construction of these installations. Well, ladies and gentlemen, such a permit is in fact not required. In the light of the Law - Construction Law, art. By analogy, we can accept that these installations require only a notification to the building department of the district old age to start such an investment, as these articles referred to here refer to the construction of household sewage treatment plants with a capacity of up to 7,5 m. Well, ladies and gentlemen, these investments, these projects are much more intruding into the environment, more affecting the environment than building a reservoir for rainwater. Therefore, I would like to ask the construction authorities, which practice different from practice throughout Poland, not to make life more difficult for residents who want to benefit from this government program, want to retort water, want to store rainwater. So, as usual, government and self-government cooperation, social organisations and citizens have good results. On the other hand, such a Normatistic approach, which is opportunistic in relation to actions taken for the benefit of citizens, is harmful. So here we perform simultaneously to [[♪ The bell ♪]] Department of Architecture, Construction and Geodesy of the Ministry of Development to issue a binding interpretation in this area. I hope that in this new edition this year citizens of the Republic of Poland will not have to struggle with such cases. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u26	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you for asking the question. Let's move on to the next question. Well, Urszula Zielińska and Claudia Jachira will ask a question about ideas governing the privatisation of Polish forests. This question was addressed to the Minister of Climate and Environment. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment will answer Mr Edward Sark. I ask you, Mrs Claudia Jachira, to speak and to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u27	Thank you, Marshal. Mr Kaczyński, President of the Committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In connection with the work on the Parliamentary amendment of the Law on Forests allowing for the conversion of land, including those valuable natural resources, which are on the Board of State Forests to other areas, of lower quality, I would like to ask the Minister what is the opinion on this draft law. How do you feel about the fact that Members are making a bill, then they suddenly withdraw from it, and then, yesterday, they are making amendments for the last moment, which are still not changing much, and we are about to be working on it in committee? Does the Ministry see the dangers of the proposed changes? Do we want to make sure that instead of forests, we have factories or mines or dumps of garbage? And finally, aren't you worried that he's gonna open this door to the silent privatisation of the woods, piece by piece? Besides, how is it possible that we are working on a document that treats the forest like any other investment area, regardless of the nature aspect, the destruction of biodiversity, the disruption of ecological corridors allowing animal migration, and your ministry, which is supposed to protect nature and not destroy it, doesn't respond to that? The project says it's gonna be an investment to protect the air, but will anyone really believe that we're gonna cut out the old tree to improve the air quality? Do you know why such dangerous changes are being made at such a rate? They are proposed as a parliamentary project, without the possibility of public consultation, with the negative opinion of foresters, the Solidarity, NGOs. What kind of investment is so urgent? To whom and where specifically you promised the forest land that you were in such a hurry, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the light of the law, do you want to be held in contempt of the state? It's time for something concrete, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u28	Thank you very much. Minister, it's time for something specific. Come in, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It should be noted that the current provisions of the Forest Act specifically regulate issues relating to the marketing of forest land. It is devoted to the whole chapter entitled: Management of the property of the State Treasury on the Board of State Forests. This law and the provisions of this chapter provide for a number of legal solutions and instruments empowering the State Forests to dispose of and manage the forests on the board, and we are really talking about national welfare here. I will remind you that since World War II, the forests in Poland have increased their area from 21% to 30% of the country's area due to the economy run by the State Forests. Indeed, the State Forests manage 30% of the country's area. This chapter also shapes the entire legal situation in which the management of forests is exercised by the State Forests State Farm. The powers to dispose of this property will cover both acquisition and disposal situations. At this point I wanted to remind you of some important issues that are related to the sale of these properties. The powers of the State Forests are primarily the acquisition of forests and land where this is justified by the needs of forest management and does not affect the interest of the State Treasury. Recently, the right to buy land which is sold by natural persons has also been added to this right. The State Forests have also benefited from this power in recent years. I just want to remind you that between 2016 and 2020 400 such requests were made or 484 such requests were received and 232 applications were finally successfully completed. As a result, nearly 400 ha of land was purchased. The law also regulates the sale of land and other immovable property in specific cases. When it comes to the disposal of forest property which is owned by the State Treasury, the disposal takes place only if we are talking about disposal, disposal of joint ownership, if the northern-forest border is regulated, or if the forebear finds that the forest property in question by its nature is redundant for the management of the forest, and the purchaser wishes to obtain it for important social or economic interests. Of course, land is also transferred to the national centre of support in situations where we have forest land in some large agricultural area and these forest enclaves do not fully meet the conditions for rational forest management there. Lands are also transferred for needs - e.g. in the context of perpetual use - such institutions as e.g. museums, animal breeding centres or military units. Forests according to the Forest Act can also be leased out. The State Forests, the Forersons, sign a series of such agreements. I would like to point out that forests are also burdened with servitude. Each of us can see how many power lines, gas lines, are placed in forest areas. Forests also have very high costs of localizing energy and gas lines. Finally, I would like to say that large areas of forests are passed on as a result of the law to military units, but the most serious challenge facing forests is the transfer of land to the construction of national roads and motorways. Few people in the country know that many thousands of hectares are related to the construction of roads and are transferred to the construction of roads. For this reason, forests do not reach [[♪ The bell ♪]] no financial or material advantage. This land is simply transferred for free. In the light of what you are saying, that the parliamentary law is being examined, it is difficult to refer to it at the moment because it contains a number of amendments. It is a parliamentary initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u30	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask you an additional question, Mrs Ursula Zielińska, the Greens.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u31	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You've been pouring water for five minutes, and we don't have enough water in the country, so I'm asking you, specifically, let's cut to the chase. This project is so that you can cut thousands of hectares of forest into pieces, pour concrete on it and give it to the investment for priceless and in violation, Minister, of the interests of the state, precisely in violation of the interests of the state in many respects. We know that 240 hectares of forest in Jaworzno will go to the first fire for the construction of the Jizera factory. This is a beautiful image campaign for the first Polish electric car, Minister. In a country where tens of thousands of people die from smog, slaughter several hundred hectares of forest under a car. Congratulations! Or maybe you should build a Jizera for 70 hectares, not 240, just as the Opel factory in Gliwice works and supposedly manages. Then maybe it would be possible to use the mines for its location. Zabrze, there are examples. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But maybe you're planning another investment like this. What kind of investments do you have in mind? What's the bill under? Under what? Who else do you want to give our forests to? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u32	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is difficult to answer a question about a law that is de facto not and is not known what shape it will take. Whether she has her finale at all, like you say, or are trying to talk. With regard to this parliamentary submission, I would like to make it clear that all the legal instruments currently in force which are in the Forests Act and those which are created by the Government of the United Right do not have the possibility, do not give such an opportunity, that there is any privatisation. It is simply impossible under applicable law, and I hope it will be so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u34	Sometimes the answers do not satisfy the questioners, but this is the situation in democracy. We take her for a good coin. The next question will be... Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The next question will be asked by Tadeusz Tomaszewski and Paweł Krutul from the parliamentary club Left. This will be the question of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration's planned adverse legal changes in the functioning of voluntary fire services as fire protection units contained in the draft law of 26 April 2021 on voluntary firefighters. Minister Maciej Wąsik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, will answer. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Mr. Chief! The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration has launched consultations on a new draft law on voluntary firefighters. And today I want the Minister to answer us, answer the crowd of almost 700,000. firefighters associated in 16,5,000. voluntary firefighters, where on a partnership basis between the TSOs, the State Firefighter and the municipality 4,5 thousand. from which it serves as part of the national rescue and fire-fighting system. The legislator proposes, ladies and gentlemen, the division of this beautiful collection of noble men, fighting side by side with statesmen in the field of fire protection, life, health and property of people. He's talking about it in art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Fire Protection Act. So far, fire protection units have been volunteer firefighters. You add: in which the TSO's emergency-extinguishing unit was set up. This means that out of those 16,5,000. Volunteer firefighters, if we look through the standards of the national emergency and fire-fighting system, it's going to be 4.5,000. Rescue and extinguisher units, maybe more. The remaining 12 thousand. will be ordinary associations in which volunteers, attention, even rescuers, meeting the criteria of the law, having training, etc., etc., who today [[♪ The bell ♪]] participate in rescue operations, they will not have the rights provided for in the Act. Thus, they will not have the right to monetary compensation for the duration of incapacity for work, rescue, protection provided for public officials, protection measures and uniforms. It also abolishes the provisions which require the municipality today to bear the cost of uniforming voluntary firefighters, financing their readiness. We treat all of this as part of the consultation. I hope that, as a result of these consultations, we will lead to such a situation that voluntary firefighters will continue to be a uniform system for ensuring the security of the state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u36	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite the Minister. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u37	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for this question, Mr President, because I think this is the moment to cut all this speculation. Some people, politicians, who have promised golden mountains to firemen for many, many years, today, when they see this bill, they want to compromise it. Dear Member, I would like to say to you that the main objective of this law is to introduce long-awaited pension allowances for CSR rescuers, [[Applause]] for firefighters who have saved lives, health and human property for 25 years. That's the main goal. They've been promised that for a long time. I think a lot of political camps have promised, said, mute, but no one has. We want to make it happen. That's the first thing. Second thing. You're talking about sharing the environment. You said yourself there's 14,000. Guards, of which only 4.5 thousand. He's in KSRG. Is that the division or isn't it? There is one. We, Mr President, have presented the bill and said: this is an open law, we will work with it, we will talk about it, we will listen to volunteers. The chief of the PSP here drives in voivodships, powiats, talking. I ride with him, I ride with him. We've been to Mazowsze, Podlasie, we'll go to Wielkopolska, sir, to you. We talk everywhere, listen and report on these consultations. We'll show you what the volunteers want. I would like to stress that some environments are terrified of this law, because they finally understand that someone is able to fulfill their promises. This is the government of law and justice, this is the government that will fulfill its promises to firefighters, promises that have made many camps. That's the main purpose of this bill. That's why they want to knock her over so they don't look bad against the Law and Justice. Because everyone promised, and no one did. No, we're gonna do this because we're gonna keep our word. Thank you for these questions, thank you for these doubts. I am convinced that we will work together in the Sejm on this bill. Your comments are valuable, we'll watch them, we'll discuss them. I am convinced that you, as a volunteer, will certainly make a great contribution to the good quality of this bill. I'm sure you'll vote for this bill. I am quite sure today, Mr President, of which I am very pleased. I'd like to cut through all my doubts. The TSO may be uniformed and will be, because it is their decision. We don't want to impose it on them. They make their own autonomous decision: they want such uniforms, they will have them. If the volunteers say that they want to have a uniformed formation in the bill, then we will write it, although we do not ban it anywhere, sir. And now you're taking it off. No, sir, no, sir. Even in the bill - I have it here - there is an article in which it is said that the municipality can buy firemen uniforms and personal protective equipment. ... Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) If you don't mind, you have spoken for a minute too long, I haven't finished yet. I'd like to say... Minister, I apologize for interfering, but whether anyone talks too long or not is decided by the Marshal of the Sejm. If you talk too long, I'll let you talk too. That's what the Sejm is all about - to discuss. There you go. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Thank you very much, Marshal. On the other hand, I hope that you have pointed out that I have not interrupted once, which cannot be said about the behaviour of the Member. But I'm going back to a very interesting topic. It's a bill that appreciates volunteer firefighters. It's a bill that introduces a card for the first time. On the basis of the ID card, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration may buy out, for example, to a person who has the ID of a firefighter. communication discounts. This law gives the minister such a right. There's never been anything like it. This bill is about privileges for firefighters, not about bans for firefighters. I am convinced, Mr President, that, in the course of parliamentary work, we will clear up all our doubts and you will vote, as I have said, in favour of this very good and long-awaited act by the environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u38	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mr Paweł Krutul, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Chief! High Izbo! Minister, please, on our part, the Left Club, don't take this as an attack. Firefighters, active firefighters, who have doubts, report to our parliamentary offices. That is why we are appealing, we are conveying these observations, we are coming to the committee meeting and we are talking about them. So that the Left Club is too good for the amendments, I'm sure it will vote. As Mr Szczepański has just said, we will vote in accordance with our conscience. So that the Left Club will definitely support that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u40	Actually, there was no additional question, but you have, Minister... There was a declaration that for sure... the club of the Left. Then let me have your opinion on this, too, okay? We on the Left do so that we do what we think is appropriate and important, and we decide it ourselves. We'll appreciate it, we'll appreciate it. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u41	Dear Marshal, Allow me to comment on this speech by the Member and thank him for this. I am convinced that the whole parliament will vote in favour of this bill, because it will be a good bill and it will be a bill, which in fact is created by volunteers. We talk to them every day, we consult them, we listen to them, we accept their demands. It will be a law that will strengthen the movement of voluntary firefighters in Poland. Minister, more consultation. Thank you very much for this declaration of support and work on this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u42	I still have a favor to ask, because I think this room is just here to talk. If I may ask Mr Tomaszewski, there is a minister, meet for a moment and talk, because I see that you have specific questions about exactly one or the other. Maybe it'll just be easier for you. In fact, the Sejm should encourage it. You're welcome. So Tadeusz, you're the minister. Don't be afraid of the Minister. The Minister is not afraid of the envoy. That's how it should be in parliamentarians in general. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal, you're making a calendar for me. Sir, but in a good case, I think. If it helps firefighters and all the volunteers, I'd be happy to set you a calendar. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. It's gonna be a meeting, maybe we'll know more. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Members Andrzej Grzyb, Stefan Krajewski and Jarosław Rzepa from the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland has a question about the increase in fuel prices, to the President of the Council of Ministers. This question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Minister Jan Sarnowski and the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Rafał Weber. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, please. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u43	Thank you, Marshal. In fact, as in the case of voluntary firefighters and this new law, so also on rising fuel prices are many interventions from citizens who ask what are the reasons for such a significant increase in fuel prices. Week 20: petrol 95-5,26, petrol 98-5,58, diesel - 5,19. At the same time, during this period, for less than a year, wholesale prices have also increased significantly, which are an important element of impact here, and in wholesale prices of course there are sewn prices, which are dictated on the one hand by Orlen, on the other hand by Lotos. At the same time, President of the National Bank of Poland, President of Glapiński, states: Inflation is conquered by factors that are outside the scope of NBP and monetary policy, especially the rise in fuel prices and food prices. So I would like to address the Minister with the question: How can these fuel prices not be so severe, especially in the period of coming out of the crisis, when such heavy burdens have fallen, for example. For agriculture? There are also epidemic phenomena, such as bird flu. All of this makes them actually grow. Additional charges in the price of a litre e.g. gasoline is almost 60% additional charges. It's excise duty, VAT, fuel levy. I'm not talking about margin anymore. Couldn't any of these elements be reduced just at a time when we're dealing with such a significant growth and at the same time with the recovery of the economy? I'll add that [[♪ The bell ♪]] fuel prices in many EU Member States are much lower - in Slovenia, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary. In the Czech Republic they are slightly higher than in Poland, but these prices were lowered with January 2021. So I ask again: Is the government considering any elements in this matter that will allow to reduce fuel prices? As I said - whether excise duty or VAT, or resignation from the periodic fuel levy, or other elements, which include. are cost-creating at this price. Especially since fuel prices are also spatially differentiated, and at motorway stations they are about 20 and 30 gr higher than at other stations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u44	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. I don't know if you'll both answer now? Yeah, in order. Very good. There you go. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] That's two. Then we wait with longing. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u45	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to stress very strongly: retail fuel prices fall within the category of contract prices set by producers based on market mechanisms. The retail price consists of a lot of factors: raw material costs, production costs, margins, the price of gold against the dollar, also a very important factor, also VAT, also excise duty. However, in order for there to be no doubt, let us remember: the rate of excise duty on diesel and motor gasoline has not been increased for a very long time, respectively since 2012 - that is 9 years - and since 2007 - that is even more. So that the government's tax policy on these fuels and on this burden is under no circumstances the cause of fluctuations in the price level of these fuels. I would like to say more: the rates of excise duty together with the fuel levy on petrol and diesel are among the lowest in the European Union. They shall evolve at the level of minimums permitted by Community law. Looking also at prices - according to May 2021 data, motor gasoline was cheaper only in Bulgaria and Romania, diesel was cheaper only in Bulgaria, Romania and Lithuania. So that there is no particularly large space for action here. Remember, too, how the market works. Any reduction in excise duty on motor fuels will not clearly equal the reduction in retail prices. The excise reduction can be intercepted by manufacturers, distributors and we have already dealt with this in 2005 when we tried to make such a move. Then, as well as now, as a result of fluctuations in oil prices, the Minister of Finance reduced the excise duty on motor gasoline, and it was very noticeable, because of about 15,5 thousand. PLN to 13.15. And this reduction - even though it really is quite a big change, almost 1/4 - had virtually no reflection in retail prices. Gas stations have reduced prices by only a few cents or have not lowered them at all. So the question is, can we afford it in this situation? A 10% reduction in danin for motor fuels, LPG, and a 10% reduction in fuel charge, that is in the state budget minus PLN 4 billion. The question is, what could we buy for it? Most likely nothing, because according to the Ministry of Finance's forecasts, the economic growth will reach ca. 3.8% , in the future - 4.3%, and this is still without the influence of KPO. Thanks to money from this source, growth should increase by an additional 0.5 percentage points or more. Further incentives, especially those fiscal ones, which reduce fuel prices, are not needed. The next year should be a record year and the dam for this record will not be a high fuel price. Thank you. As for the fuel charge, I'll ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u46	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. As far as the fuel levy is concerned, it is the main component of revenue to the National Road Fund, and the National Road Fund is used to implement the most important, strategic road investment, which consists in the construction of highways, highways and expressways. So that if someone calls for the temporary suspension or reduction of the fuel charge, he de facto calls for the withdrawal of these investments, the non-building of high-speed roads, the non-building of ring roads in national roads, because the National Road Fund is used for this purpose. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen - and this is what Minister Jan Sarnowski said - that the latest increases, whether excise duty or fuel levy, took place in 2010 and 2012 respectively. At the time I did not hear from you any great concern that Poles must pay very much for fuel, and the highest fuel costs in the last 10 years are January and February 2012. It probably just happened to coincide so accidentally that we were after the election, the second term of your coalition was just beginning, and perhaps it was. This is an acknowledgment of Donald Tusk's words, who in a conversation with the then president of Orlen said that after the election fuel could be 7 PLN for 1 l. So, in summary, we do not raise the fuel levy, nor will we reduce it because we want to make investments in infrastructure, road investments, building, connecting missing sections of motorways, building expressways in Poland as much as possible, and will be as much as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u48	Thank you very much. Additional questions. I have two Members, Mr Jarosław Rzepa and Mr Stefan Krajewski. You two gentlemen gonna ask questions? Yes. Great. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The Minister answered correctly, he wants to continue to rob Poles. Let me remind you, Minister, that in 2011 the price of the barrel was $115 and the fuel cost below 5 PLN, and today it is about $70 and the fuel price is, as you said, 5.27. Ministers, does the government really want to lower the price, even in the form of a reduction in excise duty?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u50	Thank you, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u51	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, But in 2011 it was President Kaczyński who said that these fees could be reduced so that the fuel price would be lower. You didn't cut it. The prices for the barrel were completely different then than today. And the additional problem is the price of agricultural fuel. Due to these infrastructure investments today, the farmer consumes fuel not only in the field, because he has to reach it, sometimes several kilometers, through the passage. And what you have increased (the bell), the refund of excise duty - unfortunately it cannot be translated into fuel prices today, including agricultural ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u52	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u53	Thank you very much. I am very pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that we have established one thing: under the rule of law and justice, the fuel levy has not increased and excise duty has been reduced. That's the fact that happened. Second fact. It was your government that raised the excise duty and the fuel charge. In order not to be literal and very precise: in 2010 the increase in fuel levy is 16 gr per 1 l and in 2012 the increase in excise duty is 15 gr per 1 l. What about wages? Let's compare this to the wages that were then in our country. The minimum wage in 2011 is PLN 1386; the average salary is PLN 3400. In 2021, when the fuel is at a similar price, the minimum wage is PLN 2,800 and the average salary is PLN 5200. So don't tell me, ladies and gentlemen, that something bad is going on in the fuel market because it's not happening. We ensure that, on the one hand, we do not raise either excise duty or fuel levy, and on the other hand, very effectively so that we do not miss strategic and most important infrastructure investments in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u54	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Waldemar Andzel and Mrs Barbara Bartus... Member, Member. ...Mrs Barbara Bartus... Thank you very much. ...from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask, the question will be on the comparison of the Polish National Plan for Reconstruction with plans in force in other countries and funds for the Śląskie and Małopolskie voivodships. Minister Waldemar Buda will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Waldemar Andzel, and the second question will be asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has negotiated giant funds from the European Fund for Reconstruction for Poland, i.e. EUR 23.9 billion in grants and EUR 34.2 billion in loans. According to the European Commission's calculations, Poland is in third place as a beneficiary of the European Union's resolution fund. I would like to ask which Member States will receive equally high support and which are relatively small. Secondly, what funds will the Śląskie voivodship receive in this division? And thirdly, what funds will the Małopolskie Voivodship receive? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u56	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. I was thinking, Mr President, that if Poland is in third place in the European Union, all countries that are below third place got less. I wonder what the Minister will say. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, sir, for this question. Indeed, it must be borne in mind that everything that is happening today with regard to European funds is a blow to negotiations during two European Council meetings held by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Finally, the total amount negotiated for all portfolios is PLN 770 billion in the Polish envelope. This amount consists of PLN 58 billion from the Reconstruction Fund, of which the most important part is EUR 23.9 billion, i.e. over PLN 107 billion in the grant part of the National Reconstruction Plan. As far as how this amount is placed in relation to other amounts and national allocations from the point of view of the whole KPO or the loan grant part, we are, in fact, on the podium. But when it comes to the most important part, which is the grant part, we have the fifth largest allocation. After Spain, Italy, France and Germany there is Poland. Economic, population or GDP ratios were important here compared to the average in the European Union. This allocation is indeed very large. There are countries like this. Luxembourg, which has EUR 10 million. Ireland seems to have 1 billion, so the span is very large. The negotiating elements were very important here. We have almost PLN 24 billion. Of course, everything depends... It is very easy to refer to today's situation, which is connected with the work of the Senate. Unfortunately, it is regrettable to say that they are not very dynamic. 22 countries have ratified the Council's decision on a system of own resources which allows the mobilisation of these funds and, more specifically, the raising of funds in the financial markets. Together with the Commission, we planned to launch the procedure for raising funds in monthly cycles in June, but unfortunately, if all Member States fail to complete the ratification process by the end of May, it will not be possible to obtain these funds in June. It's so practical. If the local government today asks when the funds will be, then all I can say is that they'll be a month later. As for what's going on in the Senate, there's no reason to be content. This is, however, a matter that we should have in common. I don't think anybody cares that these measures aren't there or that their handover is delayed. All the more so because the system, which is also the result of the Prime Minister's procedures, is so built that the funds can be mobilised very quickly. We negotiated an advance of 13%. that is, an advance which, regardless of progress in terms of reforms and investments, will be transferred at the very beginning, immediately after the adoption of the national plan and after the ratification of the Council decision by all Member States. Therefore, if the ratification dynamics were high, it could happen quickly and mechanically. 22 countries have already completed ratification, another country, the Netherlands, is likely to end this week. The remaining few countries, including Poland. The system that is in Poland must be taken into account. The President has yet to perform his duties in the ratification process. Therefore, such a long work in the Senate does not serve anything. As far as Śląskie and Małopolskie voivodships are concerned, I would like to say that these measures are managed centrally by the European Commission and there are no regional envelopes designated, e.g. as regards regional operational programmes. This is the amount common to the whole country. Of course, one can predict something, because most of the measures that are in the National Plan for Reconstruction will be distributed as part of the competitions, as part of the components. There are 5 components and competitions will be carried out within these components. Of course, it can be expected that the measures will affect individual voivodships in proportion to their size. As far as Małopolska and Śląsk are concerned, if we divide it only in terms of the number of voivodships, 1/16 of these funds will definitely go to these regions. I think that there will be much more to Silesia, because the size of the voivodship and the scale of the challenges it faces determine the need for more resources than proportional ones. This is reflected in the regional operational programmes, i.e. in the traditional cohesion policy, where this basic allocation (Bell) under the RPO is at the level of PLN 2 billion. This is the highest allocation in Poland. We also have the Fair Transformation Fund, for which we propose another PLN 2 billion in the Silesian Voivodeship. I am only concerned that entrepreneurs and local governments will be able to use these resources. It's going to be a dozen billion euros, I'm sorry, gold, to use. These are really gigantic measures, so I am convinced that the great challenges facing us are the use of resources for the Silesian voivodship and the completion of the transformation process, in which Silesia must undoubtedly face. As far as the Małopolskie voivodship is concerned, the allocation in the regional operational programme is at the moment at EUR 1.5 billion. We have yet to dispose of the reserve under the programme contract. I assume that at least a few hundred million euros will be allocated to this. The allocation is also linked to participation in the Fair Transformation Fund. Today, our proposal is at EUR 247 million. This gives more than EUR 2 billion. It is to be expected that in the coming years, both Małopolska and Silesia will receive a great deal of resources and together with marshals, marshals, communes, local governments, we will try to invest them well in order to contribute to the development of the region. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u58	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Barbara Bartus. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u59	Thank you. Minister! Thank you for these words, that these measures can be sent to Poland this year, that this year you will still be able to benefit from these measures because I understood your answer. If we are talking about ratification, it is only my point that by adopting a law, and we have a chance to do so in May, as Parliament, we only agree that the President should ratify it. So we have one more element. And these long discussions in our parliament do not serve anything, because either we agree or we do not - that is the purpose of this law. On the other hand, I would like to ask you about the measures that will flow. Dear Minister, The resources, including EU funds, have been coming to us for a long time and are very emotional: why someone gets it and someone doesn't get it. Minister, will this Fund for Reconstruction apply this mechanism that we use during our governments (the Bell) or the Sustainable Development Mechanism? Whether regions such as my district of Gorlicki, the district of Sądecki or border regions to which these measures were less, because the cities were growing more... Will there be a preferential approach to these smaller local governments? It's about our local needs, like I said, because sometimes it gets worse with infrastructure. And one more thing: What will this money be used for? There's still no complete plumbing in my area. There are municipalities that are just beginning to build sewers, waterworks. It's in the 21st century, and there are still places in my area where it's not there. Without external help, local governments can't handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u60	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The biggest charge against the current government in terms of having funds for investment, both European and national, is the charge of moving away from diffusion and polarisation policy, i.e. from a policy which focused on the assumption that strengthening large centres will ultimately bring territorial cohesion and development across Poland. The results can be seen in statistics: GUS, Eurostat, which show building an increasing spread between richer and poorer regions, between cities and rural regions, rural areas. We have rejected this approach and, when designing the spending of every resource, both from the National Reconstruction Plan and those under cohesion policy, we are focusing on cohesion. It arouses a lot of emotions because habits were different. The habits were such that actually large centres used even more, directly more, than would result from a kind of coherent approach to the whole territory of Poland. So we are talking about regions such as the Gorlice district, which is in Małopolska, but is also a region, from the border of Podkarpacie, which could in fact qualify for programmes such as Eastern Poland or other dedicated programmes. It is about regions that have structural problems. Believe me, when building the assumptions of the National Reconstruction Plan, we have just taken into account small cities whose problems of communication exclusion or health care have been taken into account. But we also need to talk about talks with the Left, which has also drawn attention to focusing on health problems in small centres, and that is also something that needs to be appreciated. So we have absolutely seen that small centres, often very long underinvested, with great structural problems, cannot arise alone, and that is why we will be placing these European funds there. I hope that we will meet here in time and what I have said will actually be confirmed in our actual actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u62	Thank you very much. Members of Izabela Leszczyn and Sławomir Nitras from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will ask a question about a plan to dramatically increase the tax and contribution burden for single-member entrepreneurs. This question will be addressed to the Minister of Finance and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance by Minister Jan Sarnowski. I've been reading a little bit, and I've been talking a little bit. I don't know what was in your memory or what you read. Both. Next time it'll all come from memory. I did both. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u63	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! You introduced New Deal last week. It is characteristic that we do not discuss this New Deal during the parliamentary debate. All you do is propaganda, you drive around Poland, and you say you have good new solutions. And people are afraid of these solutions because they think that from all over New Deal, there's only one thing left of all these promises: a tax raise. Entrepreneurs are most afraid of it. The most feared are self-employed entrepreneurs. They're afraid you're gonna introduce the new nine percent tax you announced. Because it's a new nine percent tax. It's amazing that you can introduce a tax without even talking about it, but you're saying you're giving some solutions. Entrepreneurs are also afraid that you will eliminate their linear tax. What is the success of the Polish economy? Why could the Polish economy develop for years? Because Polish entrepreneurs had two things: first, they were entrepreneurial, second, Poland offered them low, simple taxes. You think the exit from the COVID that you survived because of the entrepreneurs... It's Polish exports, Polish entrepreneurs saved the budget. Thanks to them, you have more influence than you thought you would. It's not your fault, it's the entrepreneurs' fault. What do they get in return? A drastic tax raise. Everyone today is looking for ways to escape to the Czech Republic, Germany. You'll seal it, but they'll find the gate. Mr Kaczyński once promised us European wages and introduced European taxes. What taxes? Please note that with taxes... Mr Morawiecki says: 6,000. PLN - you have to pay 30% tax. In Germany for $6,000. zł, for 1300 euros no taxes are paid, there is exemption from PIT, and we pay 30% for the same amounts. You want entrepreneurs to pay 30% of their taxes. It is characteristic that Mr. Morawiecki, who gave practically all his assets to his wife, for years as president of the bank abused this system. The system for hairdressers, cosmetics, for transport drivers was used by the president of the bank. He could have paid his taxes. He could have had a job contract. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He could tax himself at a rate of 30%, tax himself at a rate of 19%. He was using the system. And today, when he accumulated the assets of PLN 300 million, as some say, to all people earning PLN 5.6 thousand. PLN increases taxes to 30%. In this way you will slaughter the Polish economy. I expect full information from you here on the increase in operating costs of companies, especially self-employed, after the introduction of the so-called. New Deal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u64	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u65	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We are now at the threshold of one of the biggest tax cuts observed over the last two decades, and it is absolutely amazing that this is summarised by your Members as a huge increase. The effective rate of total tax in Poland is already much lower than in other European Union countries and in other countries of our region. Looking at the tax wedge, i.e. the tax and tax burden, we see that it deviates by a few percentage points from the burden not only in Western European countries, but above all in other countries of our region. Evenement, as regards the Polish tax system, is that the burden does not increase as revenue increases. On the contrary, it remains about the same level as the result of relatively higher taxation of less earners. What are the objectives of our reform? Ladies and gentlemen, above all, a tax reduction for 18 million people. Seven out of 10 taxpayers will benefit from these changes. Nearly 9.5 million people will not be paid or paid a zloty income tax. Most of the money, a lot of money will also be left in pensioners' pockets: 90% will benefit from it until 2/3 will not pay income tax at all. And those aren't empty words, they're real money in Poles' pockets. Your cashier at the supermarket - 1800 zlotys a year. Worker - 1400 PLN. Nurse - 1500 PLN. Who hires them? Importantly, a family with two children - 2600 PLN more. That's as much as the cost of a vacation, a year's extracurricular activities for children. On the other hand, Members of the House are asking about entrepreneurs. It is also a package that will significantly improve their situation by improving the labour market situation and the global economic situation. Looking at the labour market, we see that we now have a record low unemployment, the lowest unemployment in Europe. This is a very positive phenomenon, but entrepreneurs have very big problems with the lack of hands to work. The problem is further aggravated by pandemics and border closures. A significant increase in the tax-free amount is, above all, a huge incentive to enter the labour market. Raising wages for jobs for those returning to the market is a huge argument for them to activate themselves. We are talking here about 4 million people who could take up work practically overnight, but do not because they think that they will not find the job, or they are still scared away by the amount of tax that would pay from the first zloty. Now this threshold - even the purely psychological one - will simply disappear to a large extent. This is a proven solution that has worked out in many other countries around the world. The point is to improve the situation on the labour market. Let us also remember that the more money in employees' pockets, the better the situation on the market, the more money goes into the economy, the more demand, the more customers have Polish entrepreneurs. Let us remember that the amount of funds left by entrepreneurs at the end of the day is determined not only by the tax rate, but above all by the width of the tax base and by what we are multiplying this tax rate. The better the economy, the better the economy spins, the more money remains in the pockets of entrepreneurs. It's an investment, not an expense, and let's always look at it that way. The last piece. You are talking about the Polish Government, focusing only on changes in health contributions. After all, our whole package is very focused on improving the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. But I'm asking you about taxes. We've got a dozen tax breaks for them. On purpose... I'm asking about taxes. And I answer when it comes to taxes. And so, when it comes to development, what do we have here? Relief for expansion and increased sales of products, relief for the first public offer, consolidation relief, extension of the scope of Estonian CIT, VAT credit for obtaining financial services. What's more - it's for innovators - for the first time in history you will be able to combine research and development relief with IP Box relief. It's a relief for the prototype. Finally, it's a relief for industrial robotics. Another answer to the problem of access to an employee, which is now so hard on the market. It's also about companies not disappearing after the owner dies. Family Foundation - this is a project on which work is already underway and which will start to apply in Poland from 1 January. The global situation for entrepreneurs on 1 January will definitely improve, not make it worse. But let us also remember that we are talking about some vectors, some assumptions that will first be discussed, because we want to go out with projects, inform entrepreneurs about them, show the rules before the official parliamentary and government path starts. There will be a public consultation later. After all, we will carry out these projects together, not only with our fellow ministers, but also with entrepreneurs, with the advisory industry... and even with you. Even? Of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u66	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Isabella Leszczyna to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u67	Thank you, Marshal. High Seym! Minister! The Minister has proved with his statement that the PiS government thinks prosperity comes from tax redistribution. Minister, prosperity comes from work, from investment, from entrepreneurship. But after a year of pandemic, after a year of recession, when entrepreneurs lick their wounds and want to get back to work, you go out and say, "We're raising your taxes." Of which 2.5 million clearing companies on the basis of a linear tax, you raise them by 50%. I would like the Minister to present the High House briefly for the time being, but I would like to ask for a full written analysis of your movement, which is completely incomprehensible at the moment when we are (the bell) will have an impact on the grey zone, the flow of entrepreneurship abroad, inflation and the labour market. Please tell us how you intend to keep doctors who are often self-employed and who are missing. Nurses. And nurses. If you want them after a year of fighting COVID while they're barely alive... Hit 30%. ...with what right You tell them they're gonna pay the tax, for example. 30%? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u68	Thank you very much. I ask you, Minister, to answer the question of the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you very strongly that, even in this form, which has been presented on the basis of broad assumptions, it gains as much as 40% persons engaged in a single business activity. These are people earning up to PLN 6600 a month. Gross. As far as the impact on the grey area is concerned, a large part of it is operating below this threshold. That's what it is to pay under the table, to hire people for minimum wage. The lower taxes in viable income sections, the less cost-effective it is to hire these people for minimum wage and pay them part of the money under the table. We have also carried out analyses of the flow abroad, and in any segment of people - neither among employees nor among business people, even after the changes we are discussing - the tax limit will not be higher than in any other country in our region. As I said, the impact on the labour market will be positive. We are counting on professional activation of those who will benefit from these changes. For inflation. Of course, as the honourable Member has asked, we will address all the proposals in writing. Thank you. The Minister said the impact would be positive. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u70	Thank you very much. Mariusz Gosek and Piotr Sak will ask questions about increasing the safety of people affected by family violence. This question is addressed to the Minister of Justice, and the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice will answer Minister Marcin Romanowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u71	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Family violence is a serious phenomenon to combat. It takes place in the privacy of the house and is therefore difficult to eliminate. This phenomenon was to be combated by the Law amending the Law of 30 April 2020 on the Prevention of Family Violence. This law introduced e.g. an order to leave the apartment immediately and a restraining order against him by the oppressors, by the perpetrators of violence. Minister! I'd like to ask you about the effectiveness of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u72	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u73	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the main instrument of the law we are talking about is the act of 30 April Ub. r., is so-called. an immediate order for the perpetrator to leave the jointly occupied apartment and a restraining order for this apartment and its immediate surroundings. The advantage of this solution is immediate feasibility. Previously, without this solution, the procedure was purely court-martial and civil, which caused the person who left the apartment to leave the house for an average of 143 days. It is now between 50 and 90 minutes, because the instantness and simplicity of this solution, used by the police and the military police, is crucial in combating violence and combating such harmful and vulnerable domestic violence. As far as monitoring the effectiveness of this law is concerned, the Ministry of Justice has already implemented special solutions from the outset. We've asked the police and the military police to cooperate. I would also like to thank you very much for the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, MON, above all officers, because indeed this cooperation is working very well. We monitor up-to-date signals from officers in connection with the application of the order, including the judicial environment. As far as data is concerned, as I mentioned, we monitor them on an ongoing basis. For the first month of validity of the law, i.e. until the end of December Ub. There were 255 orders or prohibitions issued by officers. The next quarter, the first quarter of this year, is 730 such orders and prohibitions. We still have the data for April. It's 341 warrants and bans. This means that from the beginning of the Act until the end of April we have 1326 people to whom such an order has been issued. This means that there are over 1,300 people who have just been isolated, and so many family environments that can feel safe. With regard to the further stage, i.e. judicial proceedings, 52 applications for extension of the measure, 6 last year and 46 this year were brought before the court at the time at issue. We have data by the end of March, because this is where data is collected quarterly. This, on the one hand, seems to be little in relation to more than 1300 orders, but shows that the freezing effect - you might say - causes the immediate order for the perpetrator to leave the apartment is and actually works. Nevertheless, we take it here. and action, because we are aware that these proposals could be made by violent people in this procedure - we think - more so, so we want to take advantage of all possibilities and, in some sense, seal the chain of information for those affected about the possibility of making such requests. As far as the effectiveness of this law is concerned, of course, there are cases of violation of the order or prohibition imposed by police officers or military police officers. This is where we predicted criminal proceedings, criminal liability for such cases. In the first month there were 25 such proceedings. Only three have been acquitted, i.e. 22 have been declared liable on a criminal basis. As far as criminal proceedings are concerned, data are collected in a semi-annual system. At this point, I can only say this, which is the result of the police headquarters' data, that in the first quarter of this year there were 136 cases of violation of a ban or order. This also shows that this solution works (the Bell) in the sense that these cases of fractures are actually identified, as we also predicted in the bill. Finally, maybe the latest data, which also show very well the effectiveness of this law. Namely, the person in respect of whom the order or prohibition has been issued shall be entitled to a complaint. Such complaints have so far been made only 20 and in only two cases this complaint could be said to have been taken into account, i.e. this order or prohibition has been repealed. So, ladies and gentlemen, this means that on the one hand we have 1326 cases of application of the order and prohibition and only two cases where the court has ruled that this prohibition or order was incorrectly applied. I would also like to express my conviction that the use of this tool is a really effective way of combating and combating this phenomenon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u74	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mr Piotr Sak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u75	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for your response and presentation of comprehensive information and statistics. I do not want to right communals and clichés here, but it is obvious that family violence is a serious social problem, such an anomaly in the family environment, because it is mostly difficult to grasp, because it takes place in a place that should actually be some sort of asylum, such an oasis of peace, and in fact is often a place of Gehenna and execution. And it's used by people who should just give love, give safety, and actually bring harm, pain and suffering. Therefore, allow me to ask the Minister a question: According to the Ministry, is the current legal status of this family protection system sufficient in this matter? In this respect, does the Ministry have any news (the legislative bell) that will further strengthen and improve security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u76	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u77	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, we are constantly analysing the effectiveness of these new regulations, which, as I said, are crucial when it comes to countering, because this effectiveness is based on simplicity and instantness. Indeed, these analyses and our previous announcements show that when these solutions function, we will try to expand civil law instruments, because it is important that these are instruments not criminal, but civil law instruments. I think that this above-mentioned analysis shows that these instruments are actually working, and we will therefore propose that these instruments be extended precisely to the perpetrators of violence in a family that poses a threat to the lives or health of family members in the direction of this effective isolation. I'm talking here, of course, about a restraining order. I'm also talking about other solutions that we're analyzing. But it is crucial that they are simple, immediate and at the same time enforceable. And that's what we're working on. We are also working on supplementing criminal law regulations. Here we also see the need for a restraining order, but there are other types of solutions, such as the question of better guaranteeing intellectually disabled persons, persons with special needs for access to justice by enriching the criminal procedure by an even more specific mode of interrogation, if necessary, of alternative methods of communication. Of course, it is also about improving civil proceedings in this area, as well as resolving the various types of interpretation doubts which necessarily arise during the application of the current regulations. But it seems to me that the most important thing at this point in terms of the effectiveness of the system is the constant monitoring and improvement of the application of the current regulations. Here, before the law entered into force, the Ministry of Justice trained 30,000. Officers, several hundred people first contact with the Centres of the Justice Fund. Here, too, I must say that about a thousand new people are receiving the help of the Justice Fund, the victims of domestic violence, each month. We're also working on the officers' support. We have prepared a practical commentary, which has been forwarded to various kinds of institutions, among others. Police, MPs. We are working on this further to pass on forms, information materials (the bell), which will undoubtedly be helpful. In the plan - we are just preparing and the work is on the finish - training for curators and prosecutors together with the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I will conclude by talking about the evaluation system. At the end of June we will have a ready analysis of the application of the current law, which means several thousand questionnaires addressed to police officers, military police officers, social assistance centres and the victims themselves. So in the first place, as I mentioned, the proposals de lege ferenda, and in the second, the most important thing: improving training, improving the application of current solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u78	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question will be asked by Minister Cezary Grabarczyk and Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. I'll tell you honestly, I'm very pleased to hear you're asking me this question because yesterday there was a discussion on this subject. And the question will be, ladies and gentlemen, on the security of the Polish energy system due to the exclusion of 10 out of 11 energy blocks of PGE GiEK in Bełchatów. This question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, on whose behalf the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment will answer Minister Piotr Dziadzio. And I'll tell you right now, Minister, why I enjoyed this question. Well, yesterday it also fell and another Minister answered it, said that the failure occurred because of the accident. So if we know more today, it's gonna be great. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u79	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 17 May at 3 p.m. 16.30 10 of the 11 power blocks of the Bełchatów Power Plant stopped generating electricity. The loss of production was significant, as it covered almost 20% all energy produced by power plants in Poland and amounted to 3900 MW. The cause of the production shutdown, according to PGE, was the failure of Rogowiec station. The failure caused the power plant blocks to be automatically shut down. However, it should be emphasized that this is not the first failure in Belchatów. On 22 June Ub. The failure stopped the operation of four blocks, and two of them worked with reduced power. The last malfunction caused a price spike. 1 MWh of energy cost before failure from 280 PLN to 375 PLN, and the jump was so significant that the amounts ranged from 1000 PLN to 1500 PLN. There will be additional start-up costs for excluded blocks, estimated to be over a dozen million. This malfunction raises questions. First of all, is the Polish energy system safe due to these repeated failures? Is the Polish energy system managed by competent people? Is he in good hands? Doesn't nepotism's policy lead to cyclical failures? Does the Polish system guarantee the supply of electricity to households? Will the electricity reach Polish companies? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will they go head-to-head for a malfunction? Because someone misread the indications at Rogowiec Station and didn't react in time, which caused huge costs. Who's gonna pay for this crash? We ask for specific answers. At the same time, I ask, was the Bełchatów included in the plan for a fair transformation? Because there's no confirmation that this has happened so far. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u80	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to tell you the story of this event, so that we can tell ourselves about the facts that have occurred and the reasons, in fact, which is important for us to have a further discussion in this regard. As you said, on Monday, 17 May exactly at 3 p.m. 16.34 as a result of the short circuit electricity security operation, at the distribution station in Rogowiec belonging to PSE, which plays the role of the transmission system operator, 10 power blocks belonging to PGE Mining and Conventional Energy were excluded. There's full agreement about that. Deficiencies of Blocks 2 and 11. Block 12, which was on, worked without interference. It is a block with a capacity of 858 MW, which is in fact connected to another distribution station - Trębaczew. Capacity losses due to this failure were 3640 MW, not 3900 MW, and this is the information confirmed by PSE. I'm moving on to the facts. The likely cause of the disruption was the short circuit in the Rogowiec switchboard in the 400 kV line field during the planned operations. The exact mechanism for this situation is currently being examined by the special committee set up by PSE. But so far, what I said at the committee meeting yesterday... Probably the result of human error, operator error. That's what we're talking about. Not the president - it's good for us to be clear here. No CEO manages the operator, we have qualified people and such mistakes happen in different areas, in different systems. And who chose the operator? These are skilled workers, honourable Members, with special and very specific knowledge. It happens: also a motorbike makes a mistake, having an internship of a dozen - or dozens of years old. It happens to drivers, too. It happens to drivers, too, with a lot of experience, even years old, so we can look at it this way. The Commission will examine and certainly secure, i.e. it will make every effort to ensure that this error does not recur. I'll fill in all the information, because it's important for us to be aware of the consequences. The second point - which I also wanted to stress to be clear - from the information gathered so far we know that it was not the result of third parties' actions or any activity in cyberspace, so that we would be so clear. The national electricity system was immediately balanced by PSE by mobilising a generation of PGE Renewable Energy peak-pump power plants. These power plants have started their production units within minutes of the transmission operator's order. At the peak moment, all hydro-assemblys, 15 units, worked to correct the disruption of work in the national electricity system, so we see and show you how efficient the system is - which they have provided in a very short period of time 1.5 thousand. Megawatts of power. The rest came from the virtual thermal reserve in working power plants: Ostrołęka, Kozienice, Opole, Połaniec, Turów, Jaworzno, Rybnik, Lower Odra. And yet the missing power in the system has supplemented the power from the Czech Republic, from Slovakia... From Germany. Yeah, from Germany, not much. The system was therefore functioning without problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thanks to this rapid response from PSE services, Rogowiec station was ready to connect new blocks within the hour. In conclusion - because I see that we have the end - it should be emphasized that thanks to the use of all available remedies the national electricity system works stable and this Monday event does not affect the functioning of the whole system. The production and distribution of electricity to final customers has been carried out and is carried out without interference. To sum up what I wanted to say to you, in conclusion, I would like to say that this event was, in some sense, such a test for the national electricity system. The system worked, everything works properly and there was no risk of disconnecting customers. And now for a brief answer... Minister, I have a proposal for you to answer briefly in the second part, and now we'll ask... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u82	...we will ask the Member because you will return to your voice. Okay? Cool. You're welcome, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u83	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, accidents happen and it is normal that something can happen at some time, but the role of the governing or controlling system is to be secured for such situations. And today we do have such a good example of what the government of the Civic Platform and PSL did when we decided to build and built new blocks in Opole, in Jaworzno. Those blocks, like the Minister said, powered the system, actually saved us from what was threatening us. [[Applause]] Minister, in the light of what we are talking about - because we are about to build wind power plants at sea, we are also talking about nuclear power - are you considering some new way of transmission? Because today we're talking about transmission networks, where these large capacities are connected to one transmission network to the transformers. Is this a policy in this area? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will it change or not? Do you have a specific project to do this? And last question: How much money do you secure for the transmission system in your order, the Polish Łada, which today in Poland strongly promotes the Prime Minister? I hope that it will also reach the area of this power plant and say that the money is included in the programme and you will carry out this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u84	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u85	I'll get back to your previous questions. In terms of price increases per megawatt hour, honourable Member, it is not true that this price increase was up to PLN 1500, it was a forecast. In the end, this clearing price was at the level of PLN 400, which is not much higher. 400 PLN. Second line. This does not really matter to the customers at all, because it was the price on the balancing market, so it will not affect prices for the customers in any way. About the questions that... What about running costs? I can't tell you what it is now, but it's not the start-up costs that would affect the cost of electricity in any way. That's once. In terms of how much resources are foreseen for the development of the network. By 2030, 14 billion PLN will be spent and these funds will come from EU funds, a new financial perspective, the Modernisation Fund and the National Reconstruction Plan, so that is the issue. As for the questions that you have asked about the filling or competence of people, PSE is really a very competent team of people with very large qualifications. As far as manning positions is concerned, I'm not in a position to answer that question. As far as PGE is concerned, it's up to the MAP. So I'm giving you this information. So, thank you very much, on my part, I think that's... And the Fair Transformation Fund for Belchatov? Or the Fair Transformation Fund? I don't think I can answer that question right now. Well, in writing, please. Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u86	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll ask you to answer in writing. We move on to the next and last questions in this round about plans for the creation of a multi-energy group. This question will be asked by Andrzej Gawron from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, and will be answered by Minister Maciej Małecki, Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Activities. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Previously, a large transfer was announced, a merger of large companies, companies of the Treasury, i.e. large companies such as PKN Orlen, PGNiG, Lotos Group. Recently, it has appeared that a specific agreement has been signed with the Ministry of State Assets, in which this consolidation is sought. The leading role in this group of companies is to have PKN Orlen and it is known that this basic scope of activity is oil processing, wholesale, retail, Orlen stations. PGNiG is a gas, it is also a gas product, gas extraction, wholesale, retail. As for Lotus, like Orlen, oil processing, sales, as well as fuel stations that we all know. We are dealing with large entities, with recognizable brands. And here, such a fundamental question is the question of the purpose of this consolidation. We know that an increase in the role of corporations, corporations and perhaps this is the right thing to do in the economy at the moment, but such a fundamental question is the question of the purpose of these particular companies that are consolidated. We have a great challenge of energy transformation. In this respect, is this, after the merger, a large group of companies under the leading role, you can say, Lotus... sorry, Orlenu will also have a task to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u88	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to the Member's question, in the first sentence I will inform you that the Ministry of State Assets, PKN Orlen, the PGNiG Group and the Lotus Group have confirmed the structure of the merger in such a way as to form one national multi-energy company. PKN Orlen will play a leading role in the planned consolidation and thus Poland will gain a strong national entity, which will also be competitive in international markets. The combination of Orlen and Lotus means entering the most important fuel and energy companies in Europe, such as Austrian OMV, French Total, British-Dutch Shell and Spanish Repsol. When all mergers are completed, a group with annual revenues of PLN 200 billion and a differentiated EBITDA of PLN 20 billion per year will be created. The company built this way will have an open path to further growth. And it must be said strongly that consolidation guarantees Orlen's entry into the energy and fuel companies' Extraclasse in Europe. Poland needs a strong multi-energy group, which will be the flywheel of our economy. A company that will have funds for investment and which will successfully compete on foreign markets. We want a brand that's recognizable in the world. Orlen after joining PGNiG, Lotus will become a Polish champion, a Polish world brand and one of Europe's largest multi-energy companies. The creation of a multi-energy group is necessary from the point of view of all companies forming this group, building their value for shareholders, energy security of Poland and the security of our part of Europe, as well as the interests of individual customers and local communities. Today we have a situation in which Orlen and the Lotus Group compete with each other, even though both companies are in the Treasury portfolio. This phenomenon is unprecedented in other European countries. In addition, consolidation is a strong business justification. The Polish energy system, as Mr said, requires a fundamental transformation due to the age of the assets and the ambitious climate objectives. The cost of transformation is more than PLN 450 billion and the number of tasks in this process will be taken on by a new, strong multi-energy company built around Orlen. But the benefits will also be: greater development potential in the context of the long-term marginalisation of the refinery industry and increased importance of petrochemicals, gas and RES markets, strengthening position on the European and global market, increasing the competitiveness of the Polish entity, diversification of revenues and greater resilience to the economic cycle phase. The combined entity will be based on a fully integrated value chain: from exploration and extraction, through refining, petrochemicals and modern energy to retail sales. This means long-term profits for companies and their shareholders, but also means stable energy prices for the Polish economy and an attractive package of comprehensive services for customers. Looking at all the acquisition processes we're looking at, you can imagine one bill with fuel, gas or electricity. For customers this is more convenient, but also saving time. It is important that the merged company will have a stronger negotiating position with regard to raw material suppliers - whether from the United States or from the Middle East or Russia. Orlen's taking over the Lotus won't cause any increase in fuel prices at the stations. The subject of fuel prices is very sensitive, but let us remember that companies will continue to operate in a very competitive environment, and fuel prices are also shaped by other external factors, especially raw materials prices or exchange rates. Optimization of processes between these companies, exploiting synergies does not mean redundancies, because the company will not be looking for savings here. No job reduction work is being carried out. An important aspect, I stress, is the strengthening of the position of the State Treasury in the consolidated entity's shareholdership. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Currently, the State Treasury has corporate power in Lotus and PGNiG and minority participation in Orlena due to its participation. The increase in the share of the State Treasury in the consolidated entity will increase corporate power in a multi-energy company and minimise the risk of hostile takeover, ensure the energy security of Poland and enable the proper control of strategic assets according to the economic interest of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u90	Thank you very much. Additional question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u91	Minister, you were talking about targets. Indeed, it can be said that these objectives are, in the long term, positive for the economy, for the workers, as you have stressed, but also for the Treasury, which in this corporate governance will improve as if its position, but it will certainly be a long-term and complex process. I would ask you to tell me how this process is going to go, what the stages are going to be. Is there a time horizon? We know you won't give us exact dates, but at least you're gonna define some kind of time horizon and certain stages that need to go through to get this merger to happen. These are, like I said, big companies. These are State Treasury companies with different equity capital and it will not be easy, but I think the determination of PKN Orlen is quite important. The Ministry accepts this process. So that I ask you to define these particular stages of consolidation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u92	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the four-way agreement concluded in the Ministry of State Assets, the merger will be carried out through the acquisition by PKN Orlen of Lotos Group and PGNiG Group. This means that when Lotus shareholders and PGNiG shareholders are acquired, they will receive new shares in the increased share capital of PKN Orlen and become shareholders of this new structure, this new entity. The merger is the simplest and fastest legal solution possible for this transaction. This will allow full and rapid integration of assets and businesses and maximise synergies with the merger. The measures thus generated will support the combined development and transformation programme. About the deadlines. Consolidation is a very complex process and the timetable for consolidation also depends on the administrative decisions of the antitrust authorities. Here are two proceedings: on the consolidation of Orlen and Lotus before the European Commission, and on the consolidation of Orlen and PGNiG before the Polish Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. And starting with Orlen and Lotus. The proceedings before the European Commission will be... this consolidation will depend on the Commission's further decisions to implement the remedies negotiated in 2020. The implementation of these remedies by Orlen and Lotos is intended to ensure competition and consumer protection when both entities act together. Within the next few months, Orlen should submit an implementing package of remedies negotiated with business partners. Its acceptance will allow further action to be taken, including a timetable for appropriate corporate decisions. In turn the merger of Orlen and PGNiG, as I said, is subject to proceedings before the UOKiK. We expect that the decision on consent to consolidation should take place in the second half of this year. And then further steps will be possible, including planning the timing of relevant corporate decisions. That is to say, in answer to the Member's question, the coming months will be crucial to the ability to precisely define the date for the creation of a consolidated entity. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the intention of the State Treasury as shareholder of all these companies is that the wealth and human resources of each of them should contribute to the creation of a strong multi-energy group with far greater potential for development. The adopted formula guarantees a stable financial condition of the new strong company, taking into account the needs of shareholders of all companies, including minority companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The leading role of PKN Orlen in this transaction was guaranteed. I stress: from the point of view of the Ministry of Assets, the Polish government, the consolidation of Orlen, Lotus, PGNiG is beneficial for the Polish economy, for customers and for energy security of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u94	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 16 on the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on actions taken in favour of seniors, in particular those aimed at improving the living conditions and social activity of older people, as requested by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be discussed at this meeting. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Barbara Bartus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u95	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The request for information on actions taken in favour of senior citizens, in particular those aimed at improving the living conditions and social activity of older people, I will start with such a general declaration that the problems of older people should be solved by the government, local governments and not just rest on the shoulders of families. Given the role of seniors in our society, their merit and current needs, we are obliged to take all possible steps to improve the situation of the elderly. The inclusion of seniors in social policy is a challenge and commitment to the government, it is a thank you to our seniors for their previous work and civic attitude. This, too, has been mentioned many times in opposition during the reign of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. Then we also put forward proposals, proposals, as well as ready-made draft laws that would help the seniors in the situation. With this conviction, too, we started our governments at the end of 2015. We're all happy to live longer and longer. We want to live as long as we can, but we're all getting old. We too are getting older, the number of seniors in our country is constantly increasing. By the end of 2050, it will be the largest social group. That is why it is a huge challenge and a huge task for the government and our entire country to take care of this group. High Izbo! Dear Minister, It is also important to draw attention to the fact that seniors are not only a large group but also a diverse group. Other actions are needed by young seniors who are willing to take part in various kinds of initiatives, senior clubs, universities of the third century and others - aged people, most of whom are helping in everyday activities and money for medicines. It must also be borne in mind that a large group of seniors are single women, widows who either have no children or whose children live in other places, and often, as in my territory, outside the country. After all, we know how many we emigrated behind bread and then for better wages. ♪ So we want ♪ , Minister ask: How does the government of the Republic of Poland care about the interests of seniors? What are the priority issues for the government in this particular social situation with regard to changing the proportion between generations, the increase in the senior population vis-à-vis other social groups? As a society, how are we prepared for the social challenges of older people? The government has partners to implement social action. The number of senior organizations is increasing, many tasks are carried out by local governments. Minister, is there cooperation in this area? And if so, what does this cooperation with local governments look like? Social expectations concern many aspects of life. Some of them are closely related to current problems, including vaccination against COVID-19, adequate health care, social security, social assistance, active ageing. Government actions for the benefit of the elderly are foreseen in planned socio-economic programmes such as the Polish Load. We therefore ask for full information about the legal and system solutions offered by the Ministry, which programs are already being implemented by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u96	Thank you very much for the question. Minister, you're welcome. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the Law and Justice Club for having requested current information about senior policy, which is very important for all of us, for our country, but also for our government. The Government of Law and Justice and the United Right from the outset has been very strong in supporting seniors. We have based these actions on two pillars. The first pillar is to improve the material safety of seniors, and the second pillar is to improve both services concerning seniors and their families as well as activation. As far as material security is concerned, I will start with the two most important actions we have taken recently. But it is difficult not to recall the most important action that we took just at the beginning of our term of office, namely the restoration of the retirement age for men and women. Let me remind you: 65 years old - men, 60 years old - women. It was a citizen's request, and it was also a citizens' project in this area, submitted by the trade union.Solidarity, which also demanded the restoration of the retirement age, and we did so. It was also important in this respect that we left our employees the option to retire, and that is what we want to maintain so that the decision to retire is the decision of the employee. In this respect, the very important action we have taken was to increase the lowest pension. During our reign, this increase is more than 42%. It's almost 400 zlotys in cash. This concerned the lowest pensions, because we thought the lowest pensions had to increase. Today it is the amount of PLN 1250.88. The very important instrument we implemented was the so-called one. 13th pension, that is, the benefit which is already permanently entered, by law. We have granted every pensioner and pensioner in our country an additional benefit in the form of the lowest pension. Today we can say that within 3 years of the programme's operation almost PLN 36 billion has been made available to our pensioners and pensioners, because all groups are covered without exception by this programme. In addition, this year will be called. 14th pension - over PLN 10 billion will also be transferred. If we compare these amounts to the 2015 amounts, today we spend almost PLN 36 billion on senior policy only under these three actions. In 2015 it was PLN 3,600 million. So it's a ten-fold increase in spending on senior policy. In this respect, when it comes to safety, it is still worth recalling our very good programme, which is mom's 4+ pension, which is a pension intended for these moms - and fathers - who raised at least four children and who did not acquire pension rights. They can use it today. More than 71 000 use this solution today. I have a small group of fathers. In total, we spend more than PLN 880 million. We have also introduced such a solution - an additional benefit up to the amount of PLN 2500, also as a supplement to compensation for those who are repressed. The second area is the improvement of quality of life. Here are two very important programs that we are implementing. There was also a question about local governments. So I'm going to talk about the program "Senior+. " This is a program we've been doing together recently. At the moment, we have more than 1000 day homes and senior clubs under the Sr. As we started in 2015, these clubs and daily homes were 99. Today we have over 1,000. So there's been a huge increase in the number of these units, and that's what we're happy about, because seniors are happy to benefit from it -- over 23,000. participants in the course during this period. And the second programme, which is currently being implemented, under the name "Activity+" - during this period more than 2,800 completed projects for 1,400 thousand. Participants. The Senior+ programme, which is financed annually by PLN 60 million, and the Active+ programme, in the amount of PLN 40 million, is a total of PLN 100 million. For the following years this is support at the level of PLN 500 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just, I'd say, a random presentation of the actions we've taken. It is also worth mentioning the issues of caring, i.e. the 75+-care programme addressed to local governments. It is about helping care services. Together with the local government, this program is being implemented. From year to year, he is becoming more and more favorable. And maybe one more piece of information, because also, I think, it's worth it... Maybe in the second round, Minister, okay? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Just one more thing, Marshal, let me, just one more thing. There you go. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: It's about witnessing to people unable to live on their own. This is the new solution we've put in place. It's being used by 588,000 at the moment. persons. We allocate over PLN 3566 million to this. This is a benefit that is intended for people who cannot perform their own functions of life. I briefly presented these most important tasks. I'll answer the rest after the questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u98	Thank you very much, Minister. Now we have a list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. First Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u99	Dear Marshal, Minister! Madam President, we need to cut back on time a little bit, or everyone will not fit in. Let's say, one minute. One minute? No, two. All right, one and a half minutes. Two, two. One and a half. The Law and Justice Government is the first to pursue a comprehensive senior policy. Seniors and family are particularly important to us, which we have proven since taking over responsibility for Poland in 2015, in good implementation of social agreements. Restoring the early retirement age - 60 years for women, 65 years for men - is a promise that we have made instantly. For the government of law and justice, there is no impostism. We do not say that there is no money and there will be no money, especially when it is necessary to pursue social goals when it is necessary to support those who need this support most, and this group are seniors. The benefits of seniors underprivileged have increased by more than 42% in our governments. We are also implementing a number of programmes to improve the quality of life of seniors. This program, which we have been implementing since 2016, regarding free medicines for people over 75 years of age - it is 69 million packs of free medicines, it is over 36.5 million prescriptions. Nearly 2.5 million seniors benefited from the scheme. I am very pleased that in our next programme for Poland, the Polish Load program, in our strategy, a new strategy [[♪ The bell ♪]] for seniors there is also the question of a pension without tax up to 2,5 thousand. zł. Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much, Minister, for your actions so far. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u100	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak was, I'm sorry. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the lowest benefit has increased, but you are no longer talking about the fact that the number of pensioners who receive starvation pensions has also increased dramatically. Today it's about 350,000. persons. You're talking about an increase in pensions, but the truth is, there's a lot of inflation. However, there was even a deflation in previous governments. So with the same money you could buy more products, some even cheap. Today we are dealing with expensive. You have to pay up to 14% for electricity. More. It's not 40%. 14% last year If we compare a year to a year. Ladies and gentlemen! What have you done with the starving pensions? You didn't do anything. Of these pensioners, 80% are women. Unfortunately, that's what it looks like. You're talking about taking care of seniors, and you didn't really put in any system of care for seniors - none. You didn't make a bill. Not much, for example. the money that was earmarked for care in 2020 was lower than in 2019. Unfortunately, that's what it looks like. Retirement debt. It has grown to almost PLN 6.5 billion in your governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On average, it's 18,000. zł per pensioner. Thank you very much, Member. It's scary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u102	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The government supports and finances the creation of care and housing centres. This is a new type of facility in the Polish system. Very interesting program, expected. He is designed for people with a significant and moderate degree of disability. Care and assistance are provided to persons with such a degree of disability in the framework of either daily or 24-hour stays in these facilities. I would like to ask the Minister, in what percentage or in what number of already established care centres and these plans will provide care for disabled seniors, disabled elderly people. Because this is one of the forms of care and assistance, the programming support of the government addressed to this particular group. What are the criteria for qualifying these persons for these facilities? Are social, income, age criteria taken into account? How's it look? I would ask the Minister for more detailed information on this subject and for an answer to the question whether these facilities will be permanently included in the system and will be supported in terms of their functioning in future years. Because that's also what local governments and people who are interested in taking care of in such institutions are asking, just how it looks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to stress that this is a new interesting form of support and that it will probably be used by disabled older people, seniors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Public authority is responsible for active senior policy. The Minister's information referred to these elements of active state policy, but also implemented in cooperation with local governments, the non-governmental sector. The Minister spoke - as he presented his achievements - about an increase of more than 40% Minimum pension. But today we have a problem with 350 grand. so-called. pensioners who do not have the right to a minimum pension, i.e. 1250 PLN gross. This problem needs to be dealt with immediately, it is a question of human dignity. In this case, the Left Club is not waiting. We have put together an appropriate bill, which is already on the Sejm's web pages. It is worth going back to, it is worth the government wishing constructively, together with Parliament, to seek a solution to this social problem. The second problem is the current problem of vaccination of individuals after 70 years of age, which are independent. Unfortunately, it still doesn't work, there are many places where you don't hear from phones and you have to look for other solutions. I very much hope that the Minister will intervene in this matter. Thank you. (023...023)
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u107	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This discussion is usually limited to what is here and now, what is today. On the other hand, I wanted to ask the Minister for a few words about what is going on in the future, what is going on for the next generations, because we all realize that society is getting older, pensioners are going to grow, more and more people are going to go to retirement and there will be a lot more of them in relation to workers than there is today. Meanwhile, there is a bill in Parliament that predicts that 15% the funds collected in OFE will be plundered in the form of such, I would say, tax. This is so strange that the government has announced the release of pension of up to 2.5 thousand. PLN just from taxation, so 15% This racket, which the government intends to take from the people who were saving at OFE, is all the more incomprehensible. Therefore, Minister, I would ask you to answer the question whether the government will withdraw from this project and leave these funds to pensioners so that they can work for the pensions of the next generation in the perspective (the bell) of many decades ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u108	Thank you. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice. There is no Member. There is no Member. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You can say that today begins with the letter "I." It's like inflation. The highest in 20 years, in April it was 5.1% year to year - these are Eurostat data. Ladies and gentlemen, what does this mean? That means the retirees are waiting for an unimaginable cost. And if it's expensive, you'll need extra money in the pensioner's wallets. I will remind the House of this date - 22 March 2018. Then the Sejm voted on two projects: pensions without PIT, the Civic Platform project and pensions without tax, the PSL project. In both cases 237 Members and Members of Law and Justice voted against. Three years ago. Let's remind you of this data. The second thing is health care. It's the longest line in the history of specialist queues. In fact, the debt of pensioners and pensioners already reaches 4 billion PLN, an additional 4 billion PLN. It shows that they have to spend on private medical services, private visits, private rehabilitation. Another issue is the national Alzheimer's plan. Each Minister of Health promises a programme for 0.5 million patients with dementia, Alzheimer's disease. This program is still gone. And one last thing - care and medicine facilities. The rate to be paid by the NFZ per person per day, [[♪ The bell ♪]] is underestimated on a 40% scale. Get to work because Polish seniors are counting on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u110	Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u111	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Minister, I must say that I am unhappy with the information you have provided, because in the information we have obtained, you actually repeat all the time, the truth: reduced pensions, etc. That's why I have a few questions I'd like you to answer, in writing. Namely, it is very important to look at the problem of seniors not only as a problem to be solved, but also as a potential to use. I miss what I hear about you guys having that attitude about the elderly at all. We know that seniors are a diverse group, they have different potentials and opportunities, but they do have potential. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the intellectual potential of seniors, which has accumulated the capital of knowledge and experience over the years, should have an opportunity to implement. Do you have any plans and programs to go in this direction? I hope that it will not only be programs which will consist in older people having to take care of children, because of course it may be a good option for some, but for many others (the Bell) it should also be possible to exploit their intellectual potential. And just as soon as possible, Mr. Marshal... Thank you. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland. Activating seniors in the countryside and feminizing old age. I'm asking you to... Thank you very much, thank you. Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off ...to refer to what the Minister plans to do in these matters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u112	Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The pandemic that has been going on for a year has affected everyone. There is probably no family in our country whose effects are not affected by pandemics - loss of loved ones, death, loss of family businesses, illness, fear. Let us remember that the group most vulnerable since the start of the pandemic, but also are still elderly, ill, affected by disability, which during that time were often cut off from the family. I mean, people in social services centers and homes. Many of these people have passed away, many have recovered, many have been vaccinated. In this group, more than 80% have been reported since the start of the pandemic. Bed and breakfast. Minister! Are statistics kept up to date? Is the situation of people in social assistance homes and centres for people with disabilities adequately monitored? What's the incidence rate today? What's the percentage of prognosis? Now that the third wave is letting go, the more we can't lose that vigilance when it comes to the elderly, the sick. They're still the most likely to be infected. The effects of oversight can be catastrophic. They are still very high risk environments. That is why I ask: Is this situation being monitored on an ongoing basis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u114	Thank you. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u115	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Law and Justice Government has been pursuing policies to support seniors since 2015 in various areas. We had a chance to hear about the socio-social area. On the other hand, I would like to mention the health aspect. We know that good quality of life is good health. Unfortunately, many diseases occur with age. More and more seniors are complaining of shortcomings in this regard. I would therefore like to stress that these government actions that have been undertaken in recent years have been aimed at increasing the number of benefits provided to seniors as well as increasing funding. The financing of long-term care facilities, care and care facilities, as mentioned here by the Member, has increased by almost 100%. But the stakes, the stakes. Mr. Speaker! In 2015 you spent PLN 1180 million on long-term care, now it is PLN 2240 million. Thus, in the various segments of benefits that seniors benefit from, there is an increase from 50% to up to 100%. I would like to remind you that the Minister of Health has now decided to delimit benefits, i.e. there will be no limits to benefits in specialized care, outpatient care. It's about seniors. Mrs Borowiak spoke about 75+ medicines. Indeed, it is a powerful programme for which more than PLN 2 million has been allocated. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to stress that vaccinations are carried out not only against COVID, but against influenza, free vaccinations for seniors, which play an important role. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u116	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Speaking and thinking about improving the living conditions of older people, we often limit ourselves to securing senior income in the public debate. In order to pursue an effective social policy towards older people, we must also talk and think about securing care for seniors. Unfortunately, the offer of public care is still too modest, so some people do not find a place in it, and they cannot afford to use exclusive private care. An informal family fills the gap between the underinvested public sector and the expensive and profitable private sector. Women, mostly. Today, it is essential to provide support to them, to informal carers, to the families of the elderly. There is a need to increase access to training, guidance and care benefits without having to give up all work and provide rest and provide financial incentives for families who decide to hire a legal carer or guardian for the elderly. Does the Government of the United Right plan in any way to support this group of people who daily care for the decent living conditions of the elderly, their loved ones? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u119	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! These words, which I would like to address to you, refer to those who are weakest, those who are not often able to protest, those who collide each day with the rising prices of products such as bread, butter and milk, with the prices of medicines in the pharmacy, those who, ladies and gentlemen, are most affected. If we look at Europe, inflation levels in Poland are highest throughout the European Union. Unfortunately, these are facts, ladies and gentlemen. The same is true of what is happening today in the construction market in terms of the price of materials, including fuel, energy. And just the weakest ones, I did not mean to say the poorest, are the victims of all these differences, all these actions on the Polish market. I have a specific question: Do you realize what is happening today, how the poverty of the weakest is increasing, also energy poverty? Because it's happening, ladies and gentlemen, right in front of us. There are good announcements that you are talking about regarding the amount of free money, [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether to copy our tax-free pension project, but today these people feel the most what is happening in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u120	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister about long-term care in Poland and spending on this care. They're less than 0,5%. GDP compared to other developed countries, with an average of 1.7. I would like to ask you if you can imagine the development of long-term care for people who are independent, older, if these expenditures do not increase. And if they're going to rise, tell me at what rate, what scale, when we can expect it. The Pandemia exposed very strongly the shortage of politics towards seniors in Poland. On the one hand, we have a very high number of seniors in institutions for the elderly and independent, on the other hand, we still do not have a strategy for deinstitutionalisation. Minister, when can we expect such a strategy? When are we gonna discuss her? We also need sustainable financial security for older people, independent people. Today, in order to take care of such an older person, you have to give up your job. Unfortunately, this financial security is very low. There is a very wide catalogue of exemptions when it comes to people who can take care of such an elderly and independent person. We're also a sick nation. As far as life expectancy is concerned, unfortunately, we are below the average for OECD countries, and the programmes that you address to the elderly are very fragmented. We lack a full strategy for the elderly, the independent, [[♪ The bell ♪]] persons excluded. Are you going to present such a coherent strategy? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u122	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u123	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers, I always look at the senior issue on the one hand as a certain space with social problems, but on the other hand - as what we call such a nice phrase: the silver economy. After all, people of senior age are active participants in our lives. Even if they require help, it is an element that stimulates the functioning of our economy. These are jobs - these houses that allow to secure basic needs, run by local governments, institutions in the form of associations, foundations, etc. That is why I think we should stress more not that these are burdens for you, and that firstly, these are people who have earned it, and secondly, these are people who are active players in social and economic life and therefore deserve respect and support. I think that the question of pension without tax, which has been included in some part of the proposal of the Polish Deal, is a good proposition. But we would like, in accordance with our Polish Coalition, the Polish People's Party, a proposal which was rejected in the previous term of office, to return [[♪ The bell ♪]] the question of extending the right to collect such a pension without tax - because this makes pensioners active participants who benefit from their own income rather than from the social money they give. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u124	High Izbo! In connection with the ceremony which will take place in a moment, on the occasion of the Festival of the Marshal's Guard, I am announcing a 20-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min 56 hours 12 min 23]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 16. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice, will now ask the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is worth noting that the Government of Law and Justice is the only one who supports seniors so strongly. In my view, the most important part of the broad range of actions for seniors was the introduction of a 13th, 14th pension. Today, the elements of Polish government and pension without tax presented by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki appear on the first plan of senior protection. High taxation of low income is the preservation of poverty, which for many years served Poles the Civic Platform. Today, the pensioner receives 2.5 thousand. gross pensions. After the changes it will gain PLN 180 per hand, finally receiving PLN 2275. This is a historic retirement break for which I warmly thank you on behalf of pensioners and pensioners. The question arises: Which party made such a big bow towards pensioners and pensioners in the times of the world pandemic? None. No party would have the courage of law and justice. On the contrary, a pandemic would be a pretext to further deplete the lower class and plunge pensioners into poverty. However, it should be borne in mind that the pandemic is still ongoing and a significant proportion of older people are still not vaccinated against COVID-19. That's why I'd like to ask if the government will continue to lead. [[♪ The bell ♪]] support for the national vaccination programme and what are the recommendations of the government in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u126	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am particularly interested in ways of social activation of seniors who have so far isolated themselves from the pandemic. It is worth adding that seniors were the group that was most isolated because of the high risk of infection and the severe course of COVID-19. In this respect, it seems crucial to speed up vaccination in this age group and encourage vaccination of people who have not yet done so. This raises the question of interministerial activities, above all the activities of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the Ministry of Health in the context of the still insufficient vaccination of the population in the 60+ age group. 2 days ago, during the Senior Policy Committee meeting, we learned about the letter from the Minister of Health to the basic healthcare providers. They may in the system generate lists of patients of their facilities with information about vaccination, including information on the date of the scheduled vaccination. And the idea is noble. Your doctor will talk to those patients who haven't been vaccinated yet and will present the benefits of gaining immunity against COVID. The problem is that Minister Niedzielski asks, Minister Niedzielski encourages, but Minister Niedzielski does not require. Doctors don't even need to record the information they'll get during the interview. But we're here to see the minister... What measures does the Ministry of Family and Social Policy intend to take in order to increase the number of older people vaccinated? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is the Ministry going to do to get DPS employees vaccinated? 29% employees... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u128	Thank you. Mr Jan Łopata, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Council of Ministers adopted in October 2018 a document: Social policy for older people with a 2030 perspective. After 3 years I think it is worth asking about the implementation of this document. Five targeted programmes were formulated in this document, so-called. Priority. I would like to ask you to answer the question about the implementation of at least two of these priorities. Namely, point 4 is the creation of a comprehensive system of support for independent elderly people and their carers, e.g. by regulating the risk of independence, defining the criteria and the degree of disability. I'd like to ask if this is a legal instrument. If you're not able to answer right now, I'd ask for a written reply. There is also a fifth priority, namely the use of new technologies in care for the elderly and comprehensive monitoring of their health level, e.g. by the development of telemedicine and telecare. I hope and so that it was not about the teleports that came from the pandemic, which brought much evil, not just for the elderly. The current question that has already been raised here - inflation, an omnipotent cost. According to Eurostat data available, it is 5,1% April. Price increase. I think that is unfortunately - you have to add here (the bell) - not the last word. Does the government, if this trend continues, think about helping?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u131	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today we are talking about seniors, people who for many years supported the construction of the Polish economy. Unfortunately, very often, when they retired, they lost their opportunities. The Polish state turned its back on them. Fortunately, after 2015, this has changed. We started pursuing a coherent senior policy, introducing various kinds of programmes that we already talked about today: 13th, 14th pension, tax-free amount. Really, a lot of good things started to happen. That's what we need to keep in mind today. And talk about it. Unfortunately, the opposition - today I listen to it in this discussion - forgets what happened earlier. Without any shame, she starts criticizing what we're doing today. It is important to remember what today's opposition is associated with in previous times, and it is associated only with increasing the retirement age as part of senior policy. That is also something to remember today. I'm still with the OFE. Another OFE. Today I would like to thank the Minister very warmly for what the government has been doing for seniors since 2015. We're asking for more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u132	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u133	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Government action in the area of pensions over the last five years has been about undermining confidence in the state. First you lower your retirement age by condemning women to starvation benefits, then you talk about the need for longer work. Over 5 years, the number of pensioners has increased by 1 million and over 350,000. people receive starvation pensions. Are you interested in their fate? You've been announcing the liquidation of OFE for five years. You were supposed to give money to people, and you're still trying to organize a new system so that thanks to the transformation of OFE, you can nationalize private companies and take the saved money away from Poles. You tried to get the PPK in. That didn't work either. Up to 80% people have given up this form of saving because they do not believe in the investment policy you have prepared. You're training the Demographic Reserve Fund because you're running out of money to pay 13 and 14 pensions, and because of creative accounting, you're reducing the financial security of the state. You don't have a 60+ activation plan, you discourage people from working longer, and you drive them to retire faster by giving them lower benefits. You intend to introduce tax disadvantages for pensioners who receive higher benefits. These are people who have worked long and made good money, and they will be punished. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This year they won't get their 14th pension, and next year they will pay a higher health premium. Thank you, Member. Your model of country... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u134	Mr Magdalena Beyat, club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask - perhaps the Minister will not be surprised - about deinstitutionalisation. It is disturbing that this topic has not come up at all in your speech, and in the meantime it is a burning subject. Persons with disabilities and older people should be able to live independently, as provided for inter alia. UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The idea is that those people, including seniors, who will grow more and who live longer and longer, should have the opportunity to exercise their civil rights, human rights equally. Deinstitutionalisation means giving up large piers, large DPS and real support within the local community. It means apartments protected from real events, a good personal assistant network, setting up small centres in local communities so that seniors can enjoy as long as possible their independent lives at the highest level, in the local community where they live among their neighbors. Last summer, at the request of Members and Members of the Left, a joint meeting was held between the Commission: Social and Family Policy and Senior Policy. In September 2020, the Minister promised to show us the strategy, but it was still not created. It cannot and cannot be created, even though the best specialists in the non-governmental sector and social assistance are working on it. My question is: Why? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u136	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Poland, the number of seniors increases every year by about 200,000. Our seniors are often treasurers of knowledge, experience of life, are prone to great sacrifices, helping loved ones. As time passes, they require the help and care of others. One of the forms of helping seniors, as well as people with disabilities, their families are family welfare homes. They shall operate on the basis of Article. 52 Act on Social Assistance and constitute the form of care and living services provided 24 hours a day. They shall be created by natural persons or public benefit organisations which sign agreements with municipalities for the provision of such care services. Family help homes are created for not less than 3 and not more than 8 people living together requiring age or disability assistance in this form. They are a very good form of support often provided close to home and in the most close to home conditions. Their number is not yet large, there were 47 in 2020 and provided care for 318 people in 12 voivodships. An information campaign about such homes and the possibility of creating more would allow municipalities, local governments to better fulfil their obligation to provide our seniors with care close to home. Minister, is it considered to extend the list of entities that can create such houses, and is the possibility of creating additional incentives to create them being considered? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u138	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! Minister! When discussing the care of seniors, it is impossible not to address the issue of health care. I would like to raise the issue of people living in social assistance homes as people who need care because of age, illness, and who benefit from primary health care on a general basis. However, it is controversial that the NFZ has determined the amount of the capital charge for medical advice provided to residents of the DPS. Although there has been an increase in the capitulation rate for years, a factor has been increased, as experience has shown, this is still an underestimated amount, which often makes it difficult to find a doctor who would decide to take care of the residents of social services homes. I must also point out that the POZ simply lacks doctors, let alone geriatric doctors. The current rate is disproportionate to the work and involvement of doctors in the care of patients with various diseases in such facilities. A similar situation applies to environmental nurses who are expected to provide medical care in social services homes and who are missing, as is well known. This mainly applies to small towns. When will the rulers be interested in this problem? When the matter of hiring nurses in social services homes is resolved, they do not lose their rights. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and were rewarded as well as nurses working in hospitals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u140	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the information provided in the media about the intentions of the government, pensioners and pensioners who will pass on these benefits on 1 January 2022, they will only be able to receive pensions in bank accounts unless, by way of exception, they receive special consent from the Social Security Office to transfer cash by post. Retirists and pensioners, including those with disabilities, will have to apply for such permission on a special basis, often going to the office in person. The U.S. may kindly grant such permission, but it doesn't have to. I have a question for the Minister. On the basis of what program for Polish seniors, the government of the Brightest Republic of Poland intends to force seniors to pay the costs of handling bank accounts, which are now growing as rapidly as the cost of food and the cost of living the apartment increases? According to pensioners, the government does so for the convenience of government officials, not for the comfort of seniors. I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u142	Thank you. Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice. You don't have an MP? There it is. It is, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Government has a broad senior policy. It should be noted that since 2017, when retirement age was reduced, the process of supporting seniors in various aspects of social life began. In addition to the valorization of pensions, the payment of additional benefits, the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, we also have the benefit provided for the scheme They are received by women who raised four children or more. This witness can also be received by fathers. This support for those who receive the lowest benefit normalizes income and allows to improve the existence of seniors, not to sentence many of them only to social welfare benefits. For many women, mothers, who for various reasons - not only because of their offspring, but also their life factors - did not earn a pension or lack a few months to charge even the minimum pension amount, just the provision of the The programme has been in operation for less than 2 years since March 2019. You mentioned to the Minister that more than 70,000 already. people benefit from this program. In full, however, only 35% of the recipients receive the benefit. For the others, this benefit was a supplement to the amount of the lowest pension. One can say: so much and so little, yet numbers clearly indicate how low the income of Polish pensioners was. It's a statement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] it's an expression of respect for Polish seniors. It's a gesture of social solidarity. My question. Minister! What are the forecasts of the expected number of applications that will be received this year under this programme? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u145	Minister! Very specific issue - senior construction. What progress have we had, and what are the plans? Because in Poland or in New Deal there is no word on this subject, and the thing is extremely important, because it is precisely about the living conditions of seniors in their old age. So I ask: How did the system of assisted or serviced apartments develop? What about sustainable housing structures, i.e. when apartments for the elderly are guaranteed in normal demographic structures, so that people have support? Construction for seniors of the type of apartment buildings, senior enclaves - what plans, what achievements, what about this? The next issue is the DPS. As we know, the DPS is the form where the oldest people should be, already independent, because otherwise we have assisted apartments, which are so few. During the pandemic period, it turned out that the DPS were a site of massive infections. The question is why. Why? Probably also because they're non-modern objects. Is there a monitoring plan? Analysis of the situation? How many people died, how many people were infected, what was the percentage? How was it in public-managed homes, and how was it in private? Please. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in writing, because these are important issues, both in the case of senior buildings and infections. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Ławniczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! People of senior age are almost a quarter of our society at the moment. People over the age of 60 are 9400 thousand, people over the age of 65 and over - 6600 thousand. That's 17%. So they're gonna be coming, and this problem is gonna get bigger. Every man who goes into senior age, new challenges, above all health challenges, economic challenges. Here I wanted to remind and calm some who had spoken from this tribune in the last five years. Counting the base from 2015 to 2020, inflation increased by 9, ladies and gentlemen, and the lowest pension by 42%. It's just a little piece of information. Without this year, I'll mark it. But it is also very important that seniors be socially active. It's about senior clubs and senior day homes. We're getting a lot of growth. The Minister said: from 99 in 2015 to more than 1000 today, but this problem in relation to demographic processes will increase. Short question, Minister: Is there money for this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And is there money secured for the future for the expanding homes of the day's stay? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u148	Thank you. Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u149	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The government promises the seniors golden mountains. In the strategy of responsible development, promotion of professional and social activity. But you didn't follow the strategy of responsible development. In the latest 5-year plan, the password of the Golden Autumn is to encourage seniors to work after 65 years of age. What's the reality? By express yesterday, the Sejm passed the Foreign Service Act. The same terrible bill that needs to be corrected, which needs to be re-established before it even entered into force. Art. 4 of this law: the diplomat's employment relationship expires by law at the age of 65. In practice, it just means that you're throwing these people out, getting rid of them. You are graciously allowing dignified anniversaries to appeal to a minister who, on the basis of his will, can extend the term of appointment. It's a birthday present for my 65th birthday. This provision is incompatible with the Polish Labour Code, this provision taunts the standards of the Polish Constitution. Nobody in Poland can be discriminated against, primarily because of age, but because of any circumstance. What you're doing is ageism, that's exclusion because of age, which is based on stereotypes. It is stigmatized and pointing fingers in all developed countries. You should just be ashamed of it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u150	Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. You're an MP remotely, aren't you? [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u151	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I, on the occasion, wanted to thank the current government and employees of the family and social policy department for recognising the needs and expectations of our seniors and for taking effective measures to improve their existence. In 2019, for the first time in the history of Polish pensioners and pensioners received thirteen pensions, which were never offered to them by the authorities of the Polish People's Republic or any other authority after the period of transformation. Today everyone has this guaranteed by the law, and a large part of them can also count on fourteen benefits. But financial resources, although extremely important, are not everything our seniors need. The fight against loneliness, the need for people-to-people contacts, as well as physical and social activity are the needs that have been met very well in my opinion by government programs such as the Senior+ and ASOS, which allowed our seniors to pursue themselves in all their splendor. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether these and similar government programmes supporting our seniors are and will continue to be implemented and, if so, what measures the government intends to involve in them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u152	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Bukowiec, Law and Justice. There's no envoy? Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice. You're welcome. He's coming.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u153	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! We know how much the rule of law and justice helps seniors, and this senior policy is very supportive. I think we all remember, especially retired farmers, farmers who are pensioners, how low pension was under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. Here I regret that also the Polish People's Party - I stress that. And we know what a raise the pensioners got under the rule of law and justice. Today, the Polish People's Party, which has been in different governments for many years, proposes to abolish the pension tax. But, ladies and gentlemen, from all pensions, which means those who have 10,000. pensions, and there are those in Poland, would benefit most. We offer a solution in the Polish government, I think, ideal - to support those poorest pensioners, those pensioners who just have the smallest pension, to up to 2.5 thousand. I'm gonna fire you from retirement... Retired people. ...retirement, excuse me, exempting pensioners from tax. And this is the solution (the bell), I think, very good. Retired people are waiting for this bill. Thank you very much. The question is, Minister, how...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u154	Mrs Elżbieta Płonka. Mr President, you have run out of time. [[Applause]] Here you go, Mrs Elżbieta Płonka. Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice. There isn't any either. Mr Frederick Kapinos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u155	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In 2012, the government of the coalition of PO and PSL raised the retirement age for women and men in our country. This change was particularly drastic for women who were supposed to work 67 instead of 60 years old. Fortunately, the Law and Justice Government amended this law in 2016 by restoring the previous retirement age, i.e. the above mentioned 60 years for women and 65 years for men. For this action, women who did physically demanding work were particularly grateful, and for whom it was unacceptable to require an additional 7 years of work. Today, working after 60 years of age is an opportunity for them, not an obligation. A very important programme implemented by the Government of Law and Justice is the Senior+ Within the framework of this programme, 70 of these facilities were established in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship in 2015 and 2020 with a total of 1615 seats. In the last year, 2020 the Podkarpackie voivodship received almost PLN 6 million from this programme, and in the years 2017 and 2020 this voivodship received almost PLN 18 million from this programme. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks for increasing the lowest pension by 42% for the rule of law and justice, as well as for the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions. Importantly, in the assumptions of the Polish Order (The Bell) there was a proposal that pensions of most Polish seniors should not be taxed. Thank you, sir. Does the government of law and justice intend to...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u156	Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice. There isn't. There is no Member. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice, I would say, was the only one who introduced comprehensive care of seniors, because there is an increase in pensions and there are aid schemes. Here I'd like to focus on one very important thing. In small, small towns, loneliness is the main problem. It's very important to have programs aimed at older people to get them out of the house so they can spend time in senior clubs where they can play sports. From this point on, I call on the Minister to take a look at these programmes. As a person who participates in many openings of such houses, places where they can meet, I know that there is a great need to continue this kind of support because these people feel lonely. First of all, they feel a lack of contact and human relationships, which are sometimes much more valuable than all other programs dedicated to them, when we can dress, we can go out to another person. Someone said nicely that life begins for us after the 70s. I would like the Minister to pay attention to this. From here I also want to thank you for all the programs, because they are priceless and we see them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u159	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Poles work the shortest in Europe. We retire on average after 33 years. Czechs - after 36, Germany - after 39. I don't judge that. Perhaps that's objectively true. Work is a natural value, but if hundreds of thousands more of our compatriots and compatriots pass through, they reach retirement age, then the state should provide a systemic care space. Care calculated above all on the possibility of creating day-to-day senior homes, social services, including those that are in the bill - I am talking about family social services - an area of activity, getting out of solitude, from depression. Today we know that on New Deal local governments will lose billions of zlotys. I have a question: How are we able to provide this help that is intended to activate people and also help in basic life activities? Senior policy will soon become one of the most important tasks of the Polish state, due to the ageing population of our fellow countrymen. Neither in the New Deal nor in the KPO there are real support instruments in such a dimension that would meet the needs arising from the demography of Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I therefore strongly call for these provisions to be amended and for the assistance of the state's senior policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u160	Thank you very much. The representative of the applicants, Barbara Bartus, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u161	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Restoration of retirement age, increase of the lowest pensions, 13th pension every year, this year's 14th pension, pension 500+ for the disabled, these are the elements that I wrote to myself quickly from the Minister's statements and which we all know about. I will say that this is a milestone in improving the situation of older people, which does not mean that their needs are already fully met. As I said in my first speech, an ageing society is a challenge for all of us. It's a challenge for the government. I wanted to thank you for all the good voices that came out here. I don't want to refer to those voices that were typical scaring, complaining that seniors really don't need it. They don't need to be scared of what's wrong. You said that this period for elders is often a depressing period, that you cannot leave the house. That's why I have an appeal to the opposition: if you haven't done anything good in years, you don't do anything right now, at least don't scare, don't hit seniors. They really don't need it. [[Applause]] One of the important topics I would ask the Minister to continue on is the issue of social services. Social welfare homes, which are most often managed by local governments or often by private entities that already treat it as a business, do not always fulfil their role. In our rule, we fought to have health care there at all. It started not even in our governments, because already during the reign of PO-PSL, when nurses could not be employed as nurses as DPS nurses, but as carers. After 5 years, they lost their professional rights. This is a huge problem because people who need medical and nursing care often go to social services. There was also a question of the connection between the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the Ministry of Health. This cannot be separated because many older people need health safety most. Therefore, we are very pleased with the announcements, which are in the Polish Lad, that there will be no limits, that it will be easier to access health care services. Minister! High Izbo! I just want to make it sound like we're really happy that we're gonna walk away from the lowest pensions tax. This is a very important and very good solution, and I am surprised that PSL, who has talked so many times about abolishing taxes, today sees a threat to it. It's already being criticised today. When we passed our 13th pension, there was a saying, "Why do we need 13th retirement? ' Fire the pensioners from their taxes. Today, when this release is real, there's complaining again. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us work together for seniors, for our parents, grandmothers, grandparents, but really also for ourselves, because - if we are not yet seniors - in the short or long term we will also become seniors and with these problems which the Polish state has with this large group, with the fact that there are few children, few people of working age or working age, we will collide, and from what we are working out today we will also be able to benefit from. So this is our common interest, everyone, as politicians and as Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u162	Thank you very much. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this discussion about a very important issue, a senior policy. Various issues were raised in these questions. I'm going to refer to a few of them by grouping them together. Maybe I'll start with this very important topic today about the vaccination of seniors. This was a priority action for the national vaccination programme. In this respect, both accessibility and vaccination points prepared for older people met expectations. But there's a social services theme here. I have to say, 84%. Pensioners of social services homes are vaccinated, among others. Thanks to our action, through which mobile vaccination centers reached social services homes. There was no need to transport the boarding houses, only mobile centers were arriving there. Hence high levels of implantation - 84%. Staff in social services homes are set up at 60% I think it's positive, too. Today, the situation in welfare homes is stabilized. We've practically got no infection. It's at 0.1%. 80,000. wards. The situation is similar in private homes, which are run by private entities. So that the situation is stabilized. The very important action we took during the pandemic was the Senior Support Programme - the Senior Solidarity Corps. It was an action involving the support of people over the age of 70 who had to stay home most of the time. The programme took part - it participates because the programme continues - over 2 000. municipalities in our country. We also allocated additional resources. Over 38,000. people benefit from this program, not only those over the age of 70. Younger people too have used this program and can continue to use it because it is continued. There was a thread here about the so-called. the retirement pensions of the pennies. Once again, I wanted to explain how this mechanism works and where pennies come from today. The pension scheme changed in 1998. Until then, in order to get a pension, you had to have a proper retirement pension. This principle was amended in 1998. The first women benefited from this in 2004. Men retire five years later. And now every person who has returned to the Social Insurance Institution any single contribution is entitled to a pension. The principle is that a person with 20 years of experience for women and 25 years for men is entitled to the lowest pension, but anyone who can pay a single contribution today is entitled to a pension. Hence the growth of these people. Just these people. He's coming because of his age. As far as the average height is concerned, so-called. pennies pensions, this is today 770 PLN. If we had put in place an internship mechanism, any internship of 5 years or so, we would have deprived some of the benefits at all. I don't think we can afford that. Of course, we are talking about this situation when the person who is 20 years of age, woman, and 25 years of age is entitled to the lowest benefit, and those who for various reasons have not earned an internship, have the opportunity to receive a future pension depending on the size of the accumulated capital. We introduced the solution I was talking about, so-called. My mom's 4+ pension. We have whether fathers who have raised at least four children can receive the lowest pension. These people are over 71,000. Polish Lad. As far as tax matters are concerned, it's simple. We want to help those who have weaker benefits. It's a solution of 2.5,000. PLN or amount free to 30,000. He's at the average pension level in our country right now. We believe that this action here is optimal for those who have lower benefits than those who do not have such benefits. We also have the so-called (Bingle) there. PIT-0 for seniors, that is, for those who do not want to retire. They will be able to benefit from zero tax. This is also a solution that will support the activity of people who want to work longer. The principle is that this action is only a decision of the person concerned. So we don't impose anything on anyone. A person who wants to keep working is working. According to recent data from the Social Insurance Institution, people who want to continue working and not retire are far more than that, because then it is simply an opportunity to develop a higher pension. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u164	Thank you very much, Minister. This statement concludes the examination of this item on the agenda. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the act on value added tax and certain other laws, print No 1200. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm should listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on government draft laws: - amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws, print No 1176, - on the amendment of the law - Law on the prosecutor's office, the Law on public finances and some other laws, print no. 1117. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws (prints Nos 1070 and 1176). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the Committee on Infrastructure carried out detailed work on a government bill to establish a new existence - social rental agencies. The committee's report is 1176. It was adopted by 31 votes in favour, with one vote against and no abstentions. During the detailed work on the draft, the committee adopted 28 legislative comments and amendments and considered two packages of substantive amendments tabled by Members of the draft. The first of these packages was submitted by around 2050. Four amendments were rejected in the vote and the 5th amendment was withdrawn. The allegation against these amendments was that they were outside the scope of the government's agreement with local governments. The point is that the municipalities would like to take up active housing policy at all, which is quite unpopular, first of all... In the previously considered laws, the municipalities received government support at a very high level, reaching in some cases up to 80% to engage in the housing market. The social lease agencies we're talking about, of course. new institutions to facilitate the rental of apartments, give tenants the possibility to rent them for a longer period. The rental amounts may be slightly lower and the rental will be continuous, allowing people with lower incomes to benefit from housing or homes. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill was, of course, preceded by agreements with local governments. It is difficult to impose obligations on local authorities that, in the event of termination of the contract by SAN or termination of the contract, the sub-rentals will cover the municipalities with unpaid debts vis-à-vis SAN. It's like something extra. Or entrusting them with other additional social services, etc. In general, matter is very delicate. It is not possible to put municipalities before and make changes that were not agreed with them. For this reason, 4 amendments were rejected. Amendment 5 was inadequately prepared and was therefore withdrawn. There was also a package of substantive amendments to the article. 1 to amend the second, giving a new amendment 4a, and to Article. 10. These amendments were accepted in the vote. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first of these amendments was to maintain the editorial consistency added to the amended Article Law. 22j of Art. 33 of this bill. It concerns the application of the provisions of other laws to other activities covered by the law. The second point is to add amendment 4a. The amendment aims to allow investors benefiting from total support under this law to enter into contracts with tenants for an unlimited period of time where the tenant has also entered into an agreement to participate in the construction costs of the dwelling and this participation is at least 15% costs of the project. Since such a possibility already exists in a resource implemented exclusively with the participation of repayable financing, it is justified to allow the use of one type of lease in one housing investment. So Amendment 2 has been proposed in order to make the proposed solutions more coherent. Amendment 3 refers to Article. 10 and contains as if in the single text of the Article. Ten bills. In the absence of time, I can't discuss it. I would just like to add that the overwhelming majority committee has adopted the bill and calls on the High House to have the bill worked out by the committee voted on. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u166	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Anna Paluch, Law and Justice, this time on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! As I have already mentioned as rapporteur, the aim of this bill is to cope with the stagnation in the rental market. This concerns both long-term rental in the case of the COVID-19 epidemic and short-term rental. By stopping the market for tourism services, the market for long-term and short-term hires suffers greatly. On the other hand, it is about introducing an additional solution for making the economy, allowing citizens or our citizens who have a slightly lower income and who cannot afford to rent real estate on the market - we are talking about apartments and single-family homes - so that they can benefit from some kind of public support. This is not only an economic activity, but also, please, a social action that affects the enrichment of urban tissue, because in one space people will be able to live not only rich people, but also people with lower incomes. This is justified, both in terms of economic development and social development. I will not repeat the things I said as rapporteur. I will only allow on behalf of the clubs Law and Justice to make amendments. Let me remind you that in the Act No 985, i.e. the Act on the Protection of the Buyer of a Apartment or a Family House and the Developer's Guarantee Fund, we have laid down provisions that allow the transfer of funds, i.e. the Power of both the Payment Fund and the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund. A moment ago I said that there was a very strong offer to the municipalities to support them in the implementation of housing policy. The popularity of these solutions is so high that these funds are close to exhaustion and the investment season starts now. The idea is that there should be continuity of funding, so that municipalities that have decided to engage in housing policy in smaller towns will have continuous support. It is about providing these two funds with public funds. Such a provision is contained in the Act on the Protection of the Rights of the Buyer of a Housing or Family Home. Nevertheless, after 30 days, the Senate tabled an amendment that throws away these provisions. Therefore, the amendment of my club, so that we can maintain the consistency of laws, one law, that is, the Developer Guarantee Fund, as well as the law contained in print no. 1070. I'm making amendments on behalf of my club, which are kind of a fuse if I can't keep this shape of the Guarantee Fund Developer Act and protect the rights of the buyer of the premises, a single-family house and a dwelling. If it fails to maintain the form of a Parliamentary submission, it will be possible to include these provisions on the transfer of funds in the current legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u168	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The rapporteur spoke about the fact that the amendments tabled at the meeting of the committee by the opposition Members went beyond the agreements with the local authorities, while she herself presented extensive amendments. We hear he's putting in another one now. What about these agreements with local governments? Because some can, as it turns out, make adjustments, and others can't. And the concern for self-government in the mouth of the PiS Member sounds strange, while regulations resulting from the New Deal are being introduced. You want to significantly reduce the proceeds to the government's cash register. This is a false concern for self-government. However, it is better not to use such arguments, because it is necessary to have a clear message. You don't like self-government, but you're gonna do everything you can to make it all go away. As far as the bill we're investigating is concerned, any support for the housing program that didn't work out for you, as Mr. Morawiecki admitted, is a disaster. What you wanted to do for six years didn't work out. There are no additional apartments despite the changing ministers, regulations and laws that were to develop construction. Nothing's going on. Today we want to involve NGOs and the social side in cooperation with this law. I am so convinced that if this goes in this direction, NGOs and the social community will be perfectly able to deal with it. In order to strengthen their role and to better emancipate SANs, I am making amendments on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition, which will lead to the creation of SANs, if in agreement with the municipalities, have a real impact on housing policy, of course in full agreement with the municipalities. It is quite clear that if the municipalities which adopt criteria, the rules of granting, directing persons to conclude contracts through SANs, sign agreements with SAN, then it is complete trust under certain conditions. Therefore, SANs will be able to sign contracts on the basis of those criteria, which will be established as local law by the municipalities. Like I said, it's an element of social economics. I'm sure it'll be possible. Therefore, the Civic Coalition Club supports the project. We make amendments and kindly ask that they also be treated in the same way as those tabled by Members of the PiS, or Members of the governing faction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u170	Mr Wiesław Szymański. Excuse me, Wiesław Szczepański, the Left Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Coalition Club of the Left, it is my honor to present our position on today's project in prints 1070 and 1176. Yesterday, the Committee on Infrastructure considered this proposal and adopted some amendments, of course amendments to the governing coalition. This project concerns the introduction of instruments to maintain the functioning of the rental market and to mitigate the effects of administrative restrictions caused by the COVID-19 epidemic on the housing sector. A good project, though, supported or based on left-wing actions in the city of Poznań. But it's a project that doesn't solve the problem of building cheap apartments. This bill won't build a single apartment. This project addresses apartment owners who have two or three apartments and who are afraid to rent their apartment today due to existing regulations on the protection of tenants. On the other hand, it is the possibility for persons who do not have the possibility to purchase their own apartment, from a social rental agency at market price or with a premium, which the municipality will determine in the applicable legislation. Looking at the justification of the law, the entire burden of maintaining SAN will fall on the operators, or actually on the municipalities, because the amount of 200-500 thousand. PLN in the first or second year will be available for about 40, 50, 80 apartments for 2.5 thousand. municipalities. It's just, Minister, it's a joke when you want to spend that little money on this system. But it must be made clear that the government of Law and Justice cannot build housing. If we look at what's going on, first of all, we have a situation that the construction department has been moving from one department to another in recent years. National Stock The property has not so far exercised any right of first purchase, and its employees write back thousands in writings from notaries that they do not exercise the right of first purchase. Today, Poland is struggling with the quantitative and qualitative deficit of housing. There are 1.9 million apartments missing, 5.3 million Poles living in apartments in poor technical condition and overcrowded. We are only 24th place in the European Union in terms of usable area and number per person. Price 1 m Dear Minister, Mr. Marshal! I wanted to make one amendment to this bill. Well, we don't know why the government doesn't want housing cooperatives to be involved. Cooperatives with more than 100-year-old traditions, managing a huge, because more than three million housing resources, which in many cases have even more opportunity and ability to manage housing than municipalities. So we propose that such an amendment be there, because if we give this opportunity to foundations, associations that, if there is a possibility of not paying rent today, will have a catastrophic situation, how to deal with payments to the tenant and how to deal with the lack of funds from the tenant. A cooperative to manage a few thousand apartments with such a problem will simply manage. Therefore, we are making this amendment and, as I said, we will vote in favour of this law, although it is not a panacea law to solve the problem of Polish housing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u173	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives regarding the government bill amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and some other laws, prints no 1070 and 1176. The SAN model is intended to allow municipalities to increase their housing offer in their territory without having to pay for the construction of apartments. The establishment by the local government of cooperation with SAN will enable the use of existing premises for this purpose. obtained e.g. from the commercial rental market. In addition, this activity can contribute to the safety and stability of housing for rent, including in the context of the challenges of the COVID-19 epidemic in the short-term rental market and the decrease in the number of people interested in long-term hire. We all see that in recent times due to the epidemic, the demand for long-term rent has actually decreased - we are talking about students, employees - as well as short-term, weekends, holidays in various places in Poland. So basically the action is necessary, but shows one thing: Law and Justice convinces Poles today that apartments, cheap apartments, but owned by them, are not necessary, because they can rent and live in a rented apartment all their lives. It's about what's been done so far, but it hasn't actually been done. done, starting with the apartment + and ending with the construction of the famous wooden houses, none of which were created and the board of directors were paid. At the moment, it is necessary to include those self-governments, which in many places, and in this Chamber, and elsewhere, have been criticised. It was said that local governments are unable to do so, and this is based on local governments and NGOs that work with local governments, it will be possible to arrange some part of this lease. These possibilities are of course a lot, they have already been presented in many places by my previous speakers. There is hope that this will work, because if you include local governments - hopefully local governments want to get into it, hopefully they want to work together - this is a chance for some success of this project. Although local governments have also spoken in many places about the fact that this is not a program that is of great interest to them and attracts them. But we know how important it is that especially young people have the opportunity to use these apartments, maybe not the best formula, but in one that is available today and possible, taking this action, as it has already happened here, as a kind of piloting. Because what has been planned and prepared does not give a great chance that a number of young people or even all Polish citizens will benefit from this action. A number of amendments were made yesterday in the committee, which were accepted. We would also like the amendments tabled by the opposition to be made more often. On the other hand, today, given what I said at the outset, that is the need to increase this number of apartments, we as Members of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party will vote in favour of this law. Of course, we will also be looking at how this will work, because this is again packaging what was supposed to work in another formula. Today, SIMs and SANs are the hope of the Polish government that it will be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u174	Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The social lease agencies are expected to cost about PLN 50 million by 2030. From the point of view of the state and its budget, it's basically not much money. About 2,000 are scheduled to appear on the market. apartments. It's okay. We assume that these will be housing for the most deprived, so I looked at this project with attention and sympathy. But it must be remembered that at this point where we are talking about housing, just about the housing problem, it is important to remember that today about 1/3 of young people have a problem with getting their own apartment. The cost of the premises often exceeds the financial capacity of these people and this is something to be remembered, and it is worth discussing. No smaller problem are island bubbles in the housing market, where a normal, medium-earning man just won't be able to afford even rent. There are various reasons, among others. labour immigration, e.g. from Ukraine, where as a result of the concentration of large groups of people ghettoing in specific places, these housing prices are growing locally. Unfortunately, we also need to remember some unpleasant things. The state has created a housing+ programme. Unfortunately, this program is one big mess. You didn't make it. This did not solve the problem concerning the housing needs of young Poles. We know that thousands of apartments are missing in the market, and prices are rising and they are going to grow, whether in the island or in Poland in general. Let us not be deluded that the state, as part of its ideas from the New Deal, otherwise called Polskie Łady, will solve this by means of credit subsidies. This may cause another problem, i.e. build, create a bubble similar to the one that was, for example. in the United States in 2008, where people were getting loans, and they really couldn't afford those loans. And then what did we see? Big downfalls. Apartments, houses almost abandoned. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know if it is in the interest of developers and banks, because perhaps in the interest of Poles it will not be. The same is the case with the proposal, because I already refer to the future, release, increase the limits for construction, the application, houses up to 70 m
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u176	Thank you. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u177	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am very pleased with this substantive discussion that took place yesterday in the Committee on Infrastructure on the draft law on social leasing agencies. I am also pleased that we have been able to make substantive amendments and comments, especially those that we have announced here in the plenary room, on strengthening the role of NGOs or other entities that will run social rental agencies. Let us remind you what the idea of a social lease agency is. Well, there is a community that has a shortage of housing, and it has a problem with finding social housing and finding this resource, often for a huge, multi-thousandth queue. There's a free market where sometimes there's oversupply of housing. Now that we have a boom in real estate, it's gonna be a phenomenon of oversupply of apartments for rent. There is an intermediary - let it be a non-governmental organisation, a social cooperative, a company - which is provided for in this law. He brokers not only the rental, but also helps later when the tenants have already moved into these apartments. It's about people, for example. they are assigned to a social establishment, because e.g. they are seniors because they are children coming out of foster care, because they simply need housing because of their disability, or people who are slightly higher in terms of income ceiling, i.e. they no longer qualify for municipal housing, but are in so-called. rent gap, which is between credit and access to a communal apartment. So, once these people have rented a condo with SAN... The idea of a social rental agency should be to provide social services, i.e. to work with tenants. Why? So that they not only live in these apartments, but that the apartments are made sure that these people, often with disabilities or independents, help to reintegrate so that the rent is paid, because it is very important. Let me remind you that in the pilot SAN, the rent arrears are only 3,9% for all premises, while for municipalities, it is 10 times more, because e.g. In Łódź 30% of tenants have a delay in paying rent, and in Warsaw as much as 35%. Thus, all these solutions result from the fact that NGOs, a company or a social cooperative, which acts as the entity that SAN operates, also has a social function. So this law lies somewhere between two sectors of separate social policies, i.e. between housing policy, which, I will insist on in this room, is as much social policy as possible, and the social services that belong to this housing policy. There's only one part of the bill at the moment. The dialogue was conducted with only one party, i.e. local governments, unfortunately those who could lead to it themselves, were not invited to the table, so by one-sided dialogue a bit reduced this law can be said. The role of a social leasing agency has been reduced to a real estate rental agency, without a social component, e.g. without the possibility of reminding the tenants about the rent, the deposit on instalments or the payment of debts, the arrears, if they are raised, the tenants on instalments, which could also be taken care of by the social leasing agency. Also because the government only talked to the local government and not with potential SAN operators, there is an imbalance, because the entire financial risk in terms of arrears - let me remind you that the law does not allow the SAN operators to make sure that these rent arrears are not created - falls on the SAN operator. Imagine that there is a community and there is a non-governmental organization. Who's paying all the costs? And even the weaker entity adds to it, because the law provides for a procedure not only to entrust, but also to support. All these amendments, there's five of them even, we're handing over to the marshal, and we hope the High House [[♪ The bell ♪]] they will support them, because they are simply going in the right direction, in the direction of ensuring that the SAN operators are better protected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u178	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. Members have asked questions. As the first Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition. One minute. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u179	Minister! Mrs. Member! The concept of social leasing agencies seems to be hit, very sensible, but I would like to draw attention to a certain issue, namely that it depends entirely on the local government. The social lease agency is not conceived as an institution of public confidence as something that could work, even if the municipality did not express its will. I point to this dependence on local governments on purpose, because e.g. in rural areas, as it turns out, very many apartments are rented, very much, by actually modestly earning people. They're unprotected. And one more thing. Immigrants who work - legally - are sometimes thousands of people in some regions. Like a kneep wood cluster. Question: "Is this formula also for them?" Is she for them? We could sort out this difficult situation when it turns out that people are actually operating there under very bad conditions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. Five more seconds, please. No, no. Five seconds, Marshal. Mr... Once a term, you can. Once per term, please, five seconds. Thank you. It is also an integration aspect, because if these people meet with good will from the Polish state, they will function and work here under good conditions... It's just been five seconds. ...then maybe they want to settle down, and the shortage of hands in Poland is terrible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u180	Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! About the failed ideas of the PiS government for cheap apartments for Poles one could write a book. And a million more. And now it's time for social rental agencies, so that municipalities through companies and social organizations can provide cheap apartments for rent. Cooperation between local governments and property owners for commercial rental may deserve approval. It is only a pity that it took you six years to take advantage of solutions that have been successfully adopted in other European countries. So I ask you to answer the question: How long since the law entered into force is it necessary to expect significant and rapid assistance addressed to the owners of the rental apartments? I would also like to ask why rental contracts will only be concluded for five years. Will the municipalities receive funding in connection with this law and how high will it be? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u182	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Among the entities that can run - according to the law - social rental agencies are companies controlled by local governments, NGOs, foundations and social cooperatives. The Left Club has requested that they also be housing cooperatives. It is a movement of more than a hundred years of tradition, with a well-educated staff, today also managing housing communities, and thus well prepared to run a social rental agency. The second form that can run this social agency is a non-governmental organisation. A non-governmental organisation today, in accordance with the Act on Public Use and Volunteering, may carry out activities for payment, free of charge and economic activity. Can the running of a social lease agency be carried out in the form of a paid public benefit activity carried out by a non-governmental organisation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u184	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the procedated law, we do not refer to the costs of statutory activities of social rental agencies. The only income of the SAN listed in the document is the rent income. SAN, on the other hand, is to have reporting obligations and must have a President, therefore an accounting officer, contract-making staff. SANs are also to be responsible for the renovation of these premises, i.e. they will cover the costs of the operation of a whole crowd of employees. The projector provides for the conclusion of agreements between the municipality and SAN. Therefore, the Act should mention the measures for municipalities and, unfortunately, such measures are not mentioned in the Act. Without encouragement for municipalities, it will be difficult, and even impossible, to operate the SANs in Polish space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u186	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The biggest drama of the Polish housing market is the lack of affordable apartments for rent. This is due to the lack of supply of such apartments and the high market price of those apartments that are. This project responds to the fact that this market price, the difference between the market price and the payable price, is paid by the social lease agency. However, the success of this project will depend on the amount of public funds available. It worries me - I asked about it yesterday at first reading, I repeat the question, because I did not get the answer - why the subsidy fund, which is foreseen, is only 200,000. PLN for the next year, and in 10 or 9 years it is going to be 9 million, while Poznań, cited in the justification of the project as an example (The Bell), which implemented such a social rental agency, spent 1.5 million a year on these subsidies. Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Club of Law and Justice. So that 9 million for 9 years is definitely...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u188	Thank you, Member. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u189	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Act on the protection of the rights of tenants and housing resources of the commune is absolutely fundamental from the point of view of meeting the needs of millions of Poles. I am, I am not hiding, a proponent of the fact that - first - prohibit the privatisation of this housing stock of the municipality, so as not to sell municipal housing for 5, 10, 15, 20% the values, on the other hand, to make the contracts for the paid use of the premises more flexible, since they can only be concluded for an indefinite period in accordance with this Article. This causes that today, for example. A well-earned lawyer has a communal place in the city of X, while a large family is waiting for this place from the commune. The verification of the income of people who already have these premises is crucial in terms of the very rapid satisfaction of the local needs. However, I appeal to the Minister to consider the revision of the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 using his experience as vice president of Opole, who managed the housing stock of the commune. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u190	Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Cheap apartments for rent to the poorest residents are very important and it is good that the law takes up this problem and creates a legal framework for the creation of social rental agencies. On the other hand, the legal framework itself and the willingness to be honest are not enough, because this sincere desire should be followed by appropriate funds, which will make this programme actually cover a much larger population than those funds that are allocated. If in the first year it is intended for 200,000. zł, which means de facto supporting 40 apartments, let's agree, this is not a program that will solve the problem. My question is: Are there any chance that this budget will be increased? Otherwise, it will be just a beautiful program, but without content. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u192	Thank you. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the apartment rental program for the least wealthy people is a fine program and it must be developed, but if you ask Poles now what material goods they would like to own right away or what material goods they would have worked for, they would all say that they wanted to have an apartment or a house. Poles want to own, want to own apartments, want to own houses, and the state should help them. My question is this, Minister: In what and how many programs do you participate, programs that aim to help Poles and Poles buy or build, buy an apartment or build their own house? I'd like to know the number of programs and the amount of money allocated to it. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u194	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You didn't get here in time. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u195	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the possibility for SAN to carry out repairs, which is set out in the article. 22d. Such renovation is possible, but later, under the contract with the owner, the costs can be calculated in exchange for a reduction or temporary termination of the rent, but there are various programs that allow even thermomodernization, replacement of various equipment, furnaces, etc. Question: "How will this be included in these accounts?" Whether SAN will be able to use such programs offered by municipalities or e.g. by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management? How will this be settled later in relations with the tenant? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u196	Thank you very much. We've run out of MPs. Mr Marek Niebżak will now perform undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to answer it in five minutes, especially since some of the questions were repeated. I think the most important thing that's important, and it's important that it sounds like it's here, is this. These estimates, which we see in the OSR of this project, are the estimates, not the upper limits. So if there's more interest, if more municipalities come in, so to speak, in SAN, it's going to create companies that will then carry out agency activities, I think the funds will be there. That is, there are funds that we can transfer to this end from the relevant funds in the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. So that's, I think, the most important answer, because I see it was a case that came out here. The question was whether the SAN could check out in rural areas, whether they could be the answer to problems of residence, I understand, workers who came to Poland from other countries. Theoretically, yes, of course, it's kind of on the side of the commune. I can honestly say that, given the experience that has been done so far, I would rather expect the municipalities to be interested in this more than in rural areas, while legal instrumentation is as accessible as possible, and it is also possible to adopt criteria that will be intentionally, for example. they were conducive to integration. During the committee meeting, there was also talk of such an example, a little different, but also integration, only the integration of people with disabilities. There was a question about this 5-year limit. From what I understand, it follows from the Public Use Act, according to which public benefit organisations may conclude contracts on the basis of which public tasks are entrusted to them, but just for a maximum period of 5 years, and of course these contracts may later be concluded again. The important question is whether the important issue that has been raised here is also the subject of one of the amendments, namely cooperatives. In the course of consultations and arrangements, cooperatives did not express their interest, they did not want to engage in such activities, at least according to our knowledge, the more they deal with something a little different, the majority of cooperatives manage their own resources, and they set up new buildings in which they sell cooperative premises. Here this activity is slightly different and this is the reason that there is no cooperative. ...because they also run communities... Okay. I mean, what I can say is that the project was widely consulted. And yet I would like to correct one of the statements that was not a question. The side of the public benefit organization was, as much as possible, met many times, talked with them. I speak in this mode because I was not the one running this project, but Minister Kornecka, but I know there were such meetings. So it's not like we haven't really talked to the side of the public benefit organization. I'd like to correct that, too. There was also a question about costs. I would like to point out very clearly that it is so thought out that the State pays in anticipation of certain effects, results, but does not interfere in how specifically it will be organised in a given SAN - whether it will be a municipal company, whether it will be a public benefit organisation, NGOs - what will be the cost of the management. It seems to me that it would not be appropriate to regulate in such detail in the bill issues, let's say, whether the costs or the systemic SANs, because, as I said, there may be very different organizations under the slogan SAN, in various legal forms present. Thank you, there were questions in writing, of course we will collect this information. And the last question - quite difficult, perhaps also for a detailed written reply - about the possibility of using aid schemes. Basically, the SAN will operate so that rarely, I think, will have the whole building, will more often simply own or rent a place. Most of these programs, e.g. When it comes to the financing of thermomodernization, the new furnace is more for the whole building. So there's no such superconclusive answer here. I mean, absolutely in the case of such a building, owners of this building will still be able to use these programs, and by the way will benefit from SAN. But it's hard for me to imagine a situation where... Quickly - most of these aid schemes do not apply to a single premises, and SAN will usually have one premises, two, three, four premises, but not the whole building. On the other hand, if the whole building (the bell), it will absolutely be able to use it. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u198	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the rapporteurs, Mrs Anna Paluch. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Some comments questioned the question of equal treatment of amendments made by different actors. I would like to emphasise that, with regard to the amendments I tabled at second reading, which were adopted by the committee, the first and third of these amendments were orderly and legislative and, in the case of the second amendment, government support is the source of its funding. So there's no danger here. The second issue that has also been raised in the speeches - solutions introduced by the Government of the United Right, concerning standardisation, the standardization of the situation in the housing market. I would like to remind you that this is the Act on the Protection of the Rights of the Buyer of Housing and Single Family House, print No 985, the Law of the Place for Land, print No 766, the Act on the Amendment of Certain Laws Supporting the Development of Housing, print No 534, the Act on the Amendment of the Law - Construction Law, print No 121. These are the first projects on the shore that have been examined in this term of office. So, ladies and gentlemen, the government is consistently trying to create a system in which there are different solutions, there is a wide range of solutions, and there is a chance of synergy between different actions. This will create such a legal environment that housing policy will be able to develop. And I think about the 220 grand. Apartments... Thank you very much, Member. ...built in 2020, it is not without a Cossack, and it is not without influence that we are liberalizing construction law, we are facilitating procedures. All these issues serve to make Poles have more apartments. Thank you, Member. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] ...is a capital card. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u200	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to submit a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government bill amending the Act - Law on the Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Public Finance and some other laws (prints Nos 1086 and 1117). I ask Mr Mark Ast to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I am pleased to present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Law on the Public Finance, and some other laws, prints Nos 1086 and 1117. The above draft law has been examined by the committees today. In the course of the work on the project, amendments were tabled, mainly ordering, legislative, but also - by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice - amendments which postponed the time limits for the entry into force of the various provisions of the proposed law. There was also an amendment by Mr Tomasz Zimoch, which was not accepted and which we present as a minority proposal in the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u202	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please, the representative of the Law and Justice of Mr Kazimierz Smolinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u203	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the work of the committee and the work of Parliament, in my opinion, according to the club Law and Justice, it has been shown that this law is justified and necessary, contrary to the position of the clubs and opposition groups, which claim that the sole intention of this law is so-called. A cashier's fee, which means that the state has taken away the money that is in deposit for prosecution proceedings. This is obviously not true, because it is enough to remind me that it was the previous government, the government of the PO-PSL coalition in 2014 introduced rules that have similarly regulated the issue of judicial deposits. Each court in a different bank, under different conditions, those deposits which were under the jurisdiction of the courts, held and then settled, were found to be held by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in the accounts of the Ministry of Finance and Ministry - already now - development. At the time, we did not accuse you of introducing such a solution because we thought it was right. The point is that, first of all, both now and then it has settled these matters, and secondly, it reduces the costs of the entire system of these deposits on the part of the Treasury, especially the prosecutor's office, because keeping this in one account or in one kind of accounts at the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego results in savings on the side of the State Treasury. Such arguments have been presented and we have been positive towards them, and at the moment you are approaching the point that, so to speak, demagogically, only politically, so I urge you to look at it rationally. The Law and Justice Club supports the project, together with the amendments made. Indeed, it is right, in our view, to postpone the date of entry into force of these provisions so that, first, it is necessary to give a longer period of time to process, because unfortunately it is apparent from parliamentary practice that the Senate will work on this for a maximum period of time, and that the bank, as well as the prosecution, must have time, in order for these provisions to enter into force at the right time. This amendment is correct, so that we support and support this solution in further Parliamentary work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u204	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of replacing Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha to present the position of the Civic Coalition club vis-à-vis the government bill amending the Act - Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Public Finance Act and some other laws, print no. 1086. In the last 24 hours we are discussing this bill again. This is another law. In fact, it is almost standard that we focus on these two areas. The first area is centralization and here you did not surprise us with anything. We centralize issues related to deposits made during the preparatory proceedings. To date, they have had individual prosecutors, and at the moment the finance minister is to be responsible. In the case of the second area, to which we are also used, it is about how to concentrate capital in our own hands, and I will remind you that this concerns a small amount, or PLN 2 billion. At the same time, it should be stressed that these 2 billion zlotys are not public money but private money, private individuals, paid in the course of the preparatory procedure, they are measures which the Ministry should not manage in any way. I don't know if it's supposed to be some kind of momentary, I don't know, making money on interest, or keeping an eye on the person who pays, the sources from which he pays, where the funds came from - that's what I'm leaving for the public to think about. In turn, among others. For these reasons, the Civic Coalition will not support the changes in print no. 1086. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u206	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u207	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As I said before, the Coalition Parliamentary Club Left sees these proposals as harmonising, technical proposals, as is the case with judicial deposits. There's no trickery here. I am happy that this money will not be at the disposal of Minister Ziobra, but at the disposal of the Minister of Finance. It is difficult to find a loan issue here as far as the state budget is concerned, because this money remains private. They do not in any way fund the state budget, the budget of the Ministry of Finance, and this is not the case for judicial deposits either. As far as who is responsible is concerned, there is indeed a provision in the bill that says that the prosecutors are the district attorneys. That is why we will support this law, along with the amendments that have been tabled, in particular the adjournment amendment, which postpones the date of entry into force of this law. It is good that there is such an amendment, because many investments have not yet been completed, there is nothing to resolve them before the deadline, since in the case of this law it is only a technical issue, it is not known how urgent. Just let everything go its way and after these deposits end, I think, there will be a good time for this bill to enter into force. The Left Coalition Parliamentary Club supports this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u208	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, I looked very closely at the work of the committee on this project. I must confess that I have been waiting for some reflection and self-correction from the authors of this project, which would aim to clarify this law, in order to clarify the status of the funds that will be collected on the account of the Minister of Finance. I'm afraid I haven't seen such a correction. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance and fiscal services have so changed the situation to which you refer just from the previous coalition that we have inevitable mistrust of what is going on around the funds managed by the Minister of Finance today. Therefore, today we do not see the possibility to support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u210	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. Why wouldn't I? Excuse me, you have not been notified. You're welcome to come in. After Mr. Zimochu, take it easy. Okay, okay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u211	I'll step down. No. No, please, sir. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I repeat once again: the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 supports the intention to regulate the management of deposits obtained in connection with proceedings conducted or supervised by the prosecution, in particular those arising from property security and payment of property guarantees. We agree that the intuitive handling of secured deposits, modelled on the handling of judicial deposits, should be replaced by good regulation. These technical changes are needed, and we stressed that deposits should be kept, as the prosecutors themselves say, in a civilised manner. However, the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 has a negative assessment of the project in order for the Minister of Finance to have the power to temporarily manage the funds collected in deposit accounts. Mr President, it is not politics and not demagogy, it is just fears. In our view, this is the source of lending collected in private accounts. We do not see the need to delegate the financial minister's power to dispose of these funds. We have tabled an amendment to this effect. Unfortunately, it has been rejected, becoming a minority proposal. We hope that it will be adopted by the High Sejm and that the Member will change his own mind and will persuade his colleagues to do so. Today at the committee meeting, following our amendments, the Minister strongly protested. The Minister's asleep? No. You have stated that the adoption of this amendment is clear with a vote against this law. And we agree on that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u212	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Around the Confederacy is against this bill. I'll give you a brief explanation. I'm having a hard time getting my deposit out of court myself, and it's really going pretty hard for the court. However, we are against it because the problem is that there is such a feeling that when something is done centrally, it is civilized. Well, I'm a wild man, just like Huxley's in the New Wonderful World, and I believe that individual court presidents can do it better than when it's done centrally. I remember the famous experiment, that is, the American administration, when the first wave of socialism was built there in the 1960s, 70s. The centralization of the purchase of pencils in the state administration was introduced because it was considered that if people bought pencils themselves, it would be much more expensive, and if they bought in bulk, it would be cheaper. This was centralized and it turned out that the cost of the offices that were involved in this purchase of pencils was much larger than the difference resulting from this purchase of pencils. Nevertheless, people lower generally see better than the center in Warsaw. That is why I am against passing this centrally and we will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u214	Members have come forward to ask the question. Would any of you like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. First, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed regulation, including the wording of the Article. The 53th Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office seems reasonable, as now art. 53 provides that the revenue and expenditure of the public prosecutor's office constitute a small part of the State budget. There were no financial solutions providing technical tools to the prosecutor's office to store secured funds. Consequently, the conduct of these measures under the aegis of the Minister of Finance coincides with the existing arrangements involving judicial and judicial executions. However, the legislator proposes a change to exempt the prosecutor from the costs of implementing the provisions on asset protection. It is impossible, Minister, to agree with this, because the form of financial security has begun to be in pre-trial proceedings for even abuse of suspects, including those who have not yet been accused (the bell) in the form of a provision, i.e. those who have not formally begun to be party to the pre-trial procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u216	Thank you, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Michał Wosie to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u217	Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll answer one question briefly. Namely, you cannot use protection against anyone other than someone who has the status of a suspect. Therefore, this information provided by the Member is not true in the light of the law in force. As for the essence of the project, the High Sejm will allow me to refer in two sentences. The essence of this project is not the centralisation of deposits, because according to the law of the prosecutor's office, whether deposits will be handed over or these guarantees are carried out in some way, is still within the competence of the heads of individual prosecutors. The project is of a technical nature and is based on the fact that individual prosecutors will not open different bank accounts to different commercial banks, but will be opened by the Minister of Finance for individual directors of individual prosecutors - by the Minister of Finance, who has no influence on this and ensures that this money, these funds, which are made up of deposits, are to be available at any time in accordance with the decisions of the individual prosecutors' heads who remain in charge of these measures. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u218	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Mark Ast.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u219	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the chairman of the finance committee and my own, I would like to thank you for the constructive discussion on the project - yesterday was the first reading, today we worked in the justice committee - for all the comments made to this project. I hope that the High House will approve this project because, as the Minister said, it is necessary at this moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u220	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm declaring a five-minute recess... A moment's break. ...a moment's break. We are waiting for the rapporteur. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 17 hours 14 min 20]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws (Prints No 1114 and 1200). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on value added tax in print No 1114 (report: print No 1200). The Public Finance Commission yesterday examined the bill. The Commission has been working on this complex and difficult project for more than five hours. The project describes the methods and methods of collecting VAT in distance trade, online trade, with particular attention being paid to trade both within and outside the European Union. During the committee's work, a number of legislative comments were submitted to the Ministry, and the act in its final form is hereby submitted to the High House. In the course of the discussion on the project, amendments have also been introduced which may be directly related to the project, but which are extremely beneficial for taxpayers, among others. on the possibility of extending the deduction period for medical donations or allowing local governments to waive and distribute property tax into instalments. It is therefore a matter of solutions that are very much needed, especially during the pandemic period of Coronavirus. I therefore submit a draft law to the committee's report in print 1200. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u222	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u223	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present the positive position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the draft law amending the Law on Income Tax on Goods and Services and certain other laws in print No 1114. The need for amendments to the Act of 11 March 2004 on the tax on goods and services is due to the obligation to implement in the Polish legal order the provisions concerning the so-called. e-commerce VAT package. The Member States of the European Union, including Poland, are obliged to implement in national tax legislation the solutions provided for in the e-commerce VAT package aimed at overcoming barriers, including VAT sealing in cross-border e-commerce between traders and consumers. The core of this proposal are Directives amending Directive 2006/112/EC, which were adopted by the Council of the European Union in December 2017 and November 2019. So much, please countries, somewhat dry facts. What President Henryk Kowalczyk said should be emphasised. We actually worked a few hours yesterday on a very important matter concerning widely understood online commerce. In recent years, Internet commerce has adopted and increased its market share. Let us remember that Poland, but also all other countries of the European Union, are obliged to protect their producers, but also their entrepreneurs in unequal competition, often with regard primarily to goods that come to us with a wide arch through the operation of all kinds of sales platforms or markets, especially Asian, but also American. The need to amend and amend this VAT law is necessary, because from year to year, ladies and gentlemen, the market share of these goods is increasing, and let us bear in mind that goods which will not be subject to VAT, as in the case of the European Union, are, without a doubt, a much better offer for the final consumer, in which this tax is simply omitted. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, the Law and Justice Club, I will repeat once again, will vote in favour of this solution, which, we believe, will bring not only additional influence in individual European countries, but will also lead to a situation where the competitiveness of Polish or European business will be much greater in relation to the rest of the world, above all Asian. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u224	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting an opinion on the draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and on certain other laws on behalf of the Left Club. As we said on behalf of the Left Club at first reading, this is very complicated matter. We wondered why the government had not implemented these provisions of the EU directives before, because I would remind you that the directives appeared in 2017, later in 2019. On the other hand, we as Poland have a duty to implement these directives by 30 June this year, so that they can enter into force from 1 July. Our concerns turned out to be correct, given what Mr President and my honourable previous speaker said on behalf of the Law and Justice, because it is probably not normal for several dozen different amendments to appear in the bill that the government is proposing, suddenly during the committee meeting. Legislators have serious reservations about specific entries. It's all done in the process. Unfortunately, this proves that this law was not well prepared at the government level and I have the impression that all this was happening in a great hurry resulting probably from the fact that someone slept, that these regulations simply need to be implemented in Polish law. Unfortunately, it does not bode well for the quality of the law, but I think the more serious problem is that all these provisions and these amendments are so complicated that there may be a great problem with the enforcement of this law and a great problem with interpretation for economic operators who are engaged in economic activities. In addition to the discussion, there is a question of the need to regulate this matter. Given the great trade from Asian countries and goods from Asian countries that appear on the Polish market, or goods from the United States, i.e. generally from outside the European Union, the entrepreneurs pointed out that this is a clear violation of competition, because these goods are by nature already at the entrance by 23%. cheaper due to the fact that no VAT is levied. Similarly, depending on the goods, they are cheaper for excise duties and possibly other charges, so the direction of this law is absolutely correct and we have no doubt about it. The question is whether, with all this haste and with what was going on, we have actually taken into account all the things and reservations that appeared, especially in the document that was at our disposal as part of the analysis of this draft law, i.e. the positions of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who presented these reservations in their Ombudsman's letter. Of course, some of them have been included in the draft law, but I think it is very important - as at first reading - that the customs-treasure administration is prepared to ensure that the provisions of this law, assuming that it will enter into force by 30 June this year, implement and implement, because it is controlled at all, as we mentioned, 1%, 2% or 4% postal and courier consignments, and this certainly requires the implementation of specific rules, regulations on how to implement this, as well as strengthening the customs and treasury administration, which is very important. To conclude, I would like to say that there should indeed be a discussion on VAT on how to carry out a return to the situation we had 11 years ago, but this is a subject to discuss in another draft law for another discussion. On behalf of the Left Club, I would like to say that the Left Club will support this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u227	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Internet trade is developing at an exceptional rate, especially in recent times, but it is also the result of certain globalization processes, the development of global trade, transmission opportunities, as well as a new approach not only at national, European level, as I said. The biggest problem is the development of online trade with third countries, with countries outside the Union, where commercial infrastructure in the financial area does not ensure full transparency, transparency of the whole exchange process. Thus, the solutions contained in this Act are related to VAT settlement on the sale of goods and services to consumers in other Member States, but not only. This will certainly improve the competitiveness of the EU, as well as of Polish companies, especially those outside the Union, as I mentioned. This is particularly important for our domestic intermediaries, auction and sales portals, often struggling with unfair competition coming from outside the European Union. The new regulation will be an important step towards equal opportunities for European benefit, including Polish companies. The Act will facilitate the operation of companies sending goods from Poland to consumers in other European countries. Thanks to the new procedures, traders on the Internet will no longer have to register separately for VAT purposes and settle in each country to which they send goods. Instead, they will settle VAT in one window in their country of residence, and the country in which they operate will share their tax with the country to which the shipment goes, which will save companies a lot of costs and formalities. The planned change in VAT settlement for mail order sales of goods to consumers in other EU countries is interesting for online shopkeepers. So far, each Member State has had a threshold of its own for so-called. mail order sales which exceeded the obligation to register a seller for VAT purposes in the country of consumption, which involved an additional burden for him, e.g. the obligation to submit a VAT return and keep VAT records in accordance with local requirements. Therefore, the implementation of new solutions will increase the competitiveness of EU companies as well as of Polish companies against often unfair competition coming from outside the Union, from third countries. It is also intended to reduce VAT costs for cross-border transactions. There will be a fuller implementation of the principle of taxation of goods and services at the place of consumption, which means that VAT revenues will feed the budgets of the final recipient of the goods or services concerned. Of course, it is a pity that there is a delay in this regard, which has also taken place on the Union's side, not only in Poland, but we know that we are bound by the process of law-making within the common European market. Personally, I am convinced that the knowledge, competences, skills of Polish companies in the field of trade have made progress, so I am glad that Polish companies will cope with this complex, very difficult technical process. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u228	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u229	Five minutes, Marshal, right? Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I will not sugarcoat like Mr Siekierski, who says it will be competitiveness. I'll talk about problems we haven't solved and what the Poles will pay for. Yesterday, at first reading, I was talking about cross-border trade, about the e-commerce VAT package, about the date when the European Union imposed an obligation on us to implement its legislation. We talked about that, among other things. our goods in this area should be competitive, as in a completely different formula we will be trading. Or incoming goods from other areas outside the European Union... VAT will be levied on this. But let's start with this VAT. It's been six years. The flagship idea and the project with which they were going to elections today was to reduce VAT. Have they managed to reduce this VAT over the last six years? No, no, no, no, no, no, Because every year, the state collected 8 billion PLN from us without realizing its pre-election assurance. If we say and compare: we will pay the basic VAT rate - as from all the goods, even those already released, whose value was less than 22 euros, we will pay VAT - then please see: the Pole will pay 23%, Germany will pay 16%. There's gonna be a base rate. Then our country will rip us off. Our country's gonna rip us off. But you could - because you could - come up with in this project that VAT e-commerce we pay at some other rate. You could have. It could be compared: Germany pays 16% , other countries pay some. We can pay a different VAT rate for e-commerce in cross-border trade. Is that okay? You could have. That competitiveness might be affected... Because our goods, like others, will enter and be taxed in other European countries. Let's hope our entrepreneurs benefit from this. But what I wanted to say was that the government is trying to praise how competitive this is gonna be. Tell me or guess, Minister, what's the sensational news today? We are second in the countries of the European Union. Why are we so high? Inflation. It's inflation. Yes, sir, you have won today's game show. We've got the highest inflation. Over 5%. And somehow so quietly, somehow not the knowledge of Prime Minister Morawiecki, the Minister of Finance, who would appear and say: out of your pockets we draw the most out of Europe as much as possible. The Hungarians are the only ones ahead. So if we are to talk seriously about what the New Deal is going to look like, how European money is to be used, then talk to Poles properly, seriously, and do not surprise or not... You are bragging about what a normal Pole cannot check, but believe that about this inflation, going to the store, everyone will know that you are simply conning him for an additional tax payment. Health contribution in the future - 9%. You will also draw it out of the pockets of Poles, also as additional money you will draw it out of the pockets of Poles. You'll be charming in different ways, saying you're giving them something. You just take them away every day. Solutions... One more thing: scandalous proceding, 18 amendments, at least a dozen constitutional violations of three readings, in PIT, in COVID-z, reducing donations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] introducing an external location system, giving little money to counter money laundering, in terms of the relief that local governments can use. You give self-governments. They can give you a tax credit, and you're erased, you're erasing hard-earned money out of our pockets. We're gonna... Because it's a directive, but don't do that, don't go that way. Do not go this way, finally reduce VAT, or at least in e-commerce, consider whether there is still time to set a different rate for cross-border trade. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u230	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u231	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the governmental draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and on certain other laws, following the presentation of the report of the committee in print No 1200. High Izbo! As has been said many times here, the e-commerce package concerns the implementation of solutions which are Community solutions in the Polish legal order and respond to the need for a certain harmonisation of the approach to VAT on e-commerce. We all understand that the dynamics associated with the development of e-commerce, which we have seen for many, many years, and especially - I think - in recent times, has caused the market to be under pressure of various kinds of impulses that can distort competition. One such impulse is that companies, non-Community companies, take advantage of the situation that they are not subject to taxation within the Community and thus gain an advantage in terms of prices, but not only. Community companies are obliged to provide different types of services, such as those related to guarantees, which are difficult to find in companies outside the European Union. Of course, everything has its drawbacks and advantages. The final decision is made by the consumer, but it is difficult to ignore the situation in which companies outside the community gain income, the customer, but do not pay taxes within the community - also in Poland. This is one of the important factors that led to the Community approach to regulating this subject. Details were discussed quite long during the committee meeting. Here you should mention... I think this project should be more refined. The improvement of some elements took a very long time, and this resulted in only out of carelessness in the process of drafting this bill. I'd like to say three things. I think they're extremely important here. Indeed, there are Community solutions, while the Member States remain at the disposal of the sales documentation element. It turns out that according to the idea of the Government of Law and Justice, our companies will unfortunately have stricter conditions for documenting intra-Community distance sales of goods than companies in other countries of the European Union. Our government has decided that it will only be possible to document by means of two documents. It is surprising that in a similar case, i.e. in the intra-Community supply of goods, these documents are, as a general rule, applied under the provisions of the Directive, so that their catalogue is wider. The government wants to narrow it down to two documents, including a receipt by the supplier. This, of course, puts our companies in a worse position than in many other EU countries, where there will be more documents to show that the delivery has been made. On behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 tabled an amendment to this bill. We want our companies to be treated exactly the same way so that they do not have worse conditions than other companies from all over the European Union. We propose to extend the catalogue of evidence that can be shown that the delivery has been made. Other companies in other EU countries are more easily involved. I really appeal to the government not to complicate the lives of Polish entrepreneurs, Polish companies, Polish employees and accept this amendment. She'll be very good. At this point, I'm putting this good amendment on your marshal's hands. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. And, Mrs Marshal, I will say two more sentences about the legislative process, because during the committee meeting amendments were tabled to the bill, which has nothing to do with the matter of the law. They are positive from the point of view of citizens' interests, but they create legal chaos. At this point, I would like to appeal to the government not to do such things, not to create legal chaos, especially if (the bell) the relevant amended laws go through Parliament, and that is the case in this case. Thank you very much and I would ask you to refer the draft to the committee in order to come up with a better proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u232	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u233	At the beginning let us correct the false assumptions of this discussion, because probably this law from the point of view of Poland will not change that much. The main objective of this EU Directive was to eliminate VAT exemptions of up to 22 euro. It wasn't in Poland anyway. Poland has already ensured that France and I have excluded ourselves from the task of better looting citizens. The remaining provisions of this law will probably not have as much effect as the authors expect. We will almost certainly have yet another episode of this series, in which the Union and Poland will heroically solve the difficulties resulting from the fact that the Union and Poland systematically devastate their economy with stupid regulations and taxes. The Union and Poland are inventing regulations that make it too expensive to produce anything on the spot, that it is difficult to enter the market, and thus there is less competition and longer supply chains, that the cost of maintaining non-productive people is passed on to productive people. Finally, the whole Union is trying to commit a collective suicide in the form of the implementation of the Green Deal to show the world that it is possible. You can, but I don't think it's worth it. The result is a permanent escape from production abroad. It is cheaper, as it turns out, to sew panties on the other side of the world, pack, repack, transport, deliver, avoid recipes, puzzle than produce on site. And that's the drama, that's the problem. To put it graphically, this regulatory and tax pressure creates a huge difference in pressure between the European Union, where production is expensive, but there is still capital and a rich market, and areas where production without these stupid tax regulations is much cheaper. It causes natural diffusion. Production escapes from more expensive areas to cheaper areas, and goods go the other way - from cheaper to more expensive areas. To counter this, the European Union is trying to create external barriers, to lock itself in a fortress. Of course, this differential of pressures is still unloading through some leaks and hence AliExpress's success, which causes consumers in Europe to buy goods by avoiding the predatory paws of their tax offices. AliExpress packages don't have to meet all those stupid standards, certification requirements made up by officials, approval numbers, supervisors that raise production costs here on site. And is something wrong with that? Nothing's going on. This shows that all these regulations are simply unnecessary, and people, regardless of how they vote in elections, really prefer to buy cheaply and without these EU regulations rather than expensively and with an EU stamp. The fight against non-tax imports creates huge costs. There's a lot of different ways to deal with it. Some scanning of shipments, arbitrary taxing, then appealing by taxpayers, handling these appeals - all this is a huge effort that needs to be made only so that the state can scrape more taxes off us. E.g. In Sweden, the fight against AliExpress was taken seriously, an expensive IT system was put in place, and in the early days everything fell out, there was a huge congestion, huge confusion. Thousands of shipments returned to China when people found out they were going to pay more for all this than they originally did. Of course, it is unfair that some pay VAT and others do not pay it, it is unfair competition, but justice must be levelled this way to ease what is too hard and not to add to those who have too light. We should urgently reduce VAT, and since we cannot bear it completely, we can try to balance it in a different way, for example. reducing other taxes, income, removing different regulatory burdens, simplifying the rules, abandoning demanding, ridiculous regulations that increase costs in Europe and Poland. And what do we do? Yeah, the other way around. The government proposed a PIT increase for entrepreneurs in Nowy Wale, e.g. as a result of the inability to deduct the health contribution. If we do not do so, if we do not make production in Poland more profitable than imports from China, then the fight against this import will only result in three more being created on the spot of one patched hole in the wall, and even if we can effectively tax this import, we will simply have to buy more expensive and we will be able to afford less. Now you can buy a few hundred cheaper phones thanks to AliExpress. It'll give me a phone and two pairs of shoes. If we charge it with our VAT, I'll only have a phone, and a few hundred zlotys will go to the government, which will use it to build bridges along the river or build and undress other power plants in Ostrołęka. If we cut off this possibility, if we plug this hole, we keep this pressure difference going, we're going to make a huge effort just to have less and more expensive beer, and we're going to have to drink the beer that we've had with all these stupid regulations and choking our own economy. Last but not least, China's addiction is a result. not free trade, but the lack of economic freedom in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u234	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing this bill again. I'll be honest with you, I don't have any... In my naivety, I'm not gonna be that optimistic. Three readings, ladies and gentlemen, were designed in such a way that the bill's designs were good, not so that they would be pushed knee-deep in one session of the Sejm. However, I have no doubt that this is simply the case, because this is your country's tactics. On the other hand, yesterday I asked a specific question, which I did not get an answer to. I wanted to ask when the government plans to reduce national VAT from 23% to 22%. Please respond in writing as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u236	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u237	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The European Union has specifically given all countries more than 3 years to prepare legislation and mechanisms due to the complexity of the subject. After all, here we need not only a law, but also hundreds of implementing regulations, not to mention the infrastructure necessary to handle hundreds of thousands of transactions. What did the Polish government do during this time? He didn't do anything. Now we have 2 weeks to make all the changes that the other countries of the European Union have been preparing for 3 years. It is not by chance that the Union has extended the date of entry into force of the rules, as fiscal mechanisms are needed to implement them. Now they are probably unrealistic to introduce in our country because of their complexity. The other countries have been doing this for three years. Most likely we will fall into the trap of double taxation, because the question is whether our tax administration is prepared to handle import transactions concluded by individuals. Unless it is prepared and awaits the implementation of decisions taken by the government without the need to adopt a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I remember once buying basketball shoes in the United States, because there are very few in Poland, basketball is a little popular sport. I paid almost 500 zlotys for them. During the week they arrived in Poland, then spent 3 weeks in customs clearance, and when I received it I learned that I had to pay 100 zlotys for the fact that I dared to send myself shoes from the United States, which were not available in Poland. If I want to buy a car abroad, I also have to pay extra taxes for punishment - for the fact that I dare not buy a new car in Poland, in the Polish living room, not because I can't afford it, just because, exactly so suggests the government, that I should buy a new car in Poland and not look for it abroad, thus cheating the system. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, what you have proposed is adapted to the EU Directive. It's so confusing that you can't understand it. You should go towards simplification (the bell), reduction, liquidation, not the introduction of further mechanisms. It is you who should teach the European Union how this law should lead.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u240	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is worth asking ourselves what caused the EU to start pressing on this tax right now. The answer is simple because we have just agreed that the Union should levy taxes directly in countries. This is the first swallow that makes spring. Secondly, it is worth asking yourself what the man who sold the pens when the Chinese pens were cheaper was doing. He sold these pens, very nice, fancy, so colorful, but the contributions to them were Chinese. The question is, is he gonna make money that there's gonna be VAT on this. We agree that there should be fair competition, but fair competition is that VAT should be reduced to such a size as to be less than the cost of transport from China to Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then we will achieve this effect not through the consumer's pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u242	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, In the explanatory memorandum to the bill is the information that from 2022 for the next 10 years as a result of the implementation of these solutions will go to the Polish budget every year the amount of PLN 1157 million. I would like to ask in such a way as in the opinion of the finance department, this will affect the final price of services and goods at the recipients. Can these services be expected to increase? The second point concerns the solutions that the rapporteur said were adopted as amendments at second reading. This applies to taxes on natural persons, on legal persons, on lump sums, on the possibility of deduction of certain purchases. Of course, that wasn't part of the government project. The question is: How can such a fundamental solution be introduced during second reading? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, the question to the government: What will be the financial consequences when these solutions are introduced for the state budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u244	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Wiesław Boj, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to point out the following: How does the government intend to control and record turnover in passenger transport services? As we know, in Poland, an economic activity is being carried out throughout the country, consisting of the intermediary of the transport of persons by foreign entities. The service is ordered via a web application. The customer orders a transport service and pays at the time of its order. The application is obviously tense with the payment card. The toll value therefore goes entirely to the account of the foreign operator and probably to the foreign account of the economic operator. The contractor of the service, the Polish operator, receives a return from the operator of the service a contractual value for the service rendered. The operator therefore retains the due value for himself. Are these transactions controlled and taxed? Isn't fiscal avoidance in this case? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We know that the domestic market, as a result of the taxi service provided, has great problems with such organised unfair competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u246	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u247	In the final part of my speech I talked about my positive opinion on the state of preparation of Polish companies, the tax system, the possibilities of all these electronic transmissions in terms of implementation of the law. However, Mrs Skowrońska and my colleagues have forced me to direct the question to the Minister, how the Ministry evaluates the state of preparation for the implementation of this law. Will it be carried out and, if so, to what extent will it be monitored? But there's a certain amount of money behind it. It is known that companies will look for different paths, roads to avoid certain regulations and have certain financial benefits, all the more so as this process of harmonising this whole system follows. It's slow, but it's happening. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And there should be more activity here, also from our government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u248	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u249	In conclusion, your marshal, your speech on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I did not say that we would vote in favour or that it did not sound right. We are talking about these shortcomings, about exceeding the rules and the non-constitutional amendments that have been examined in the committee. You can't say next time that the deadline for this amendment has passed, or you can take it from a completely different committee and consider it as in the case of these devices of the external location system. On 13 April, you presented print number 1114 and those 18 amendments. I was inspired by one of the Members who said that, in addition to VAT, you were collecting a customs duty. How much does the e-commerce resort charge for customs duties? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I also asked, and I ask again, when it comes to the fact that other countries sell alcohol in the case of online commerce. It's not here. What are you considering in the future? Is it also a product that can be exported, sold as a product in e-commerce, not only in the country but also abroad? That's why there's revenue. If you're going to pull a billion out of us, maybe in trade, from selling products that are subject to excise duty, but at least lower the VAT rate. For six years, year after year you draw money out of the pockets of Poles. You collected a total of PLN 8 billion because you did not reduce the VAT rate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u250	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u251	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! That is the question that should be asked every time we debate the revision of the VAT Act. This has just been mentioned by the Member, and many other Members have also spoken about it. In July 2015, Mrs Beata Szydło, then the candidate for the premiere, promised Poles a reduction in VAT, a return to rates that are standard. It is 2021 and the VAT rates are still increased. You have repeatedly voted on laws that have kept high stakes. Minister! Come over here and tell me when you're done wailing your eyes at Poles and lowering the VAT rate. I'll tell you more. When you remove the recipe you introduced into the VAT Act, which is supposed to confuse Poles. Eyes [[♪ The bell ♪]] and justify your actions? I look forward to a man's decision and a man's answer to the question: When will the government finally fulfill its promise and lower the VAT rates to the level at which they should be? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u252	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Jan Sarnowski, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u253	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Starting with Mrs Skowrońska's questions on the work on the bill, I would like to remind you that all information on the content of the e-commerce package was received by Poland at the turn of November and December 2019. The work was carried out at the Ministry of Finance with very close cooperation with the National Tax Administration. So that together we have developed ready-made solutions already in October 2020. Already then, our solutions were made available in connection with public consultations. The market has been able to familiarise itself with these solutions since October last year. The Council of Ministers adopted the package at the beginning of April. In mid-April, he could have gone to the Sejm, but he's here now. I would like to say that there is no doubt that thanks to the fact that we worked closely with the National Tax Administration during the whole process of writing this package, the electronic registration system and applications are ready. Electronic reporting to this system is open from 1 April. So that the companies from the market did not they only know the content of these provisions, not only how we will implement the Directive, but they can also apply to the system. We do not accept, accept or register notifications because there is no legal basis for this. On the other hand, we are ready to turn on this implementing substrate and accept the notification when the legal basis appears. As regards the VAT reduction, I would like to remind you that last year, one of the biggest VAT reductions in recent years took place in July 2020. The VAT has been reduced for fruit, bread, baby diapers and many items of first need. I wanted to remind you again - once again I do not see Mrs Skowronska in the Chamber, who asked a question and came out - that in fact in Germany the VAT rate is not 16% Only 19%. I was talking about it yesterday. The Member must not have heard it. In addition, I would like to remind you that in Germany the reduced VAT rate is 7%. So it is 2 percentage points, which is almost 50% higher than in Poland. Everything in Poland is subject to the lowest rate, i.e. first-needed products such as bread, fruit, vegetables, in Germany is subject to VAT by almost 50% higher. Moreover, as I mentioned yesterday, this is part of a broadly understood tax policy. In Germany, CIT is 15% , and in Poland in the case of 93% companies are 9%. That's what I call it. It's a little CIT. Many entities may also benefit from the IP Box exemption, where the rate is 5%. I would like to refer to Mr Suchuni's question, which concerned documentary conditions. The catalogue for EU sales of B2C, or WSTO, will be exactly the same as it is now in the case of mail order sales on the territory of the country. Already now the regulations are known to companies that already operate in accordance with these principles and collect appropriate documents. This will not be any additional burden for them. Mr Sosnierz also asked the question and ran away. There it is. It's great, thank you. Excuse me, sir. This is about excluding up to 22 euro parcels from VAT. It's a very important change. Indeed, it will not make a direct difference in Poland, but it will introduce it indirectly, because many packages enter the European Union, crossing the border in other countries. The deletion of this limit in other countries of the European Union will indirectly lead to the fact that these goods simply will not appear in our country. Your comments on the production that is being carried out in China are correct, not among others. in our region. We are aware that in post-pandemic times, the pandemic has shown the sensitivity of supply chains and that geographical distance is becoming an increasing threat to companies, including large producers - many global companies are considering moving production closer to the final consumer. One of the huge world markets is the western part of the European Union, which is why there are opportunities for our region. We want to use them, hence the proposal to introduce a system of reliefs as part of the Polish Order from 1 January next year. The reliefs will support the production process at any stage. It is about simultaneous application of R &amp; D relief at the conceptual stage, relief for prototypes in the case of creating prototypes, making its test production and research, relief for industrial robotization, IP Box concessions for sales in Poland and abroad of a product manufactured and registered in Poland, and relief for innovative workers who are urgently needed in the creation of new goods, which will be able to gain not only the Polish market, but also foreign markets. They'll make Chinese eggs cheaper. Maybe they won't. On the other hand, they will be able to do and we encourage them to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We will answer other questions in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u254	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on changing the name of the University of Technology and Nature to them. Jan and Jędrzej Śniadecki in Bydgoszcz (prints no 1128 and 1146). I ask Mr Sławomir Skwark to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the government draft law on changing the name of the University of Technology and Nature to them. Jan and Jędrzej Śniadecki in Bydgoszcz, print no 1128. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 30 April 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for first reading. The Commission, following its first reading and consideration of this brief, consisting of two articles of the draft law at its meeting on 11 May 2021, brings forward: The High Sejm will adopt a draft law on printing No 1128 without amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u256	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u257	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As the rapporteur has just said, this is a short document, but ladies and gentlemen, very important from the point of view of Bydgoszcz, from the point of view of the whole Kujawsko-Pomorskie region, but also more widely, from the point of view of Polish science. The University of Technology and Nature, which we are talking about today, is a university with a great tradition, a university known not only regionally, but also in Poland. It is enough to say that among technical universities it takes the leading place, and its graduates are known in Poland and abroad. They also sit in this Parliament, including this term of office. And I remember how much satisfaction it was, how much joy it was when they changed the name of this university from the Technical and Agricultural Academy to the University of Technology and Nature. I remember attending the celebrations of giving the university this new rank, a new name. The decision was then signed on the spot, in Bydgoszcz, sleep. Mr. President Lech Kaczyński. And here we are at the next stage of the university's development. This is another stage and another nobilitation, because first of all, polytechnics is something that is not in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region, and this must be emphasized, secondly, it is the appreciation of the merit of the university, its scientific achievements and development. The university meets the criteria that are necessary to achieve the status of polytechnics. It is worth noting that this will enable further, better training of future graduates, as well as conducting important, necessary research in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region and in Bydgoszcz itself. Let us hope that this will also stop, there is nothing to hide, but not a small number (the bell) of departures of potential students to technical universities in Poland. We have an excellent university and I am very happy that on behalf of all parliamentarians of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region I can participate in this event. One more word, Marshal. I wanted to congratulate the university authorities. I also wanted to appreciate the contribution of the government, and especially of Minister Schreiber, who was watching this issue, I think, on behalf of the government, as well as all the parliamentarians of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u258	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Magdalena Łośko, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 28 April this year It entered the Sejm in 1128 to change the name of the University of Technology and Natural Sciences. Jan and Jędrzej Śniadecki in Bydgoszcz. On 11 May, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth held its first reading and examination of the bill. The draft was adopted unanimously without amendments. The subject of establishing polytechnics has been addressed for many years among the academic community of the University of Technology and Nature in Bydgoszcz. The head of the university decided to hold a generalized referendum held at the beginning of February this year, and 83% voting employees voted in favour of changing the name of the university to the Bydgoszcz University of Technology. The referendum was one of the elements of the consultative and decision-making process on the change of the name of the university. Both the Senate and the university council expressed their support for the initiative. The initiative to change the name of universities is supported by local and regional authorities. The Bydgoszcz City Council unanimously adopted a special position in support of the formation of the polytechnics. The application of the University of Technology and Nature meets all the formal requirements necessary to name the university as: Bydgoszcz University of Technology. The university has the authority to award a doctor's degree in as many as eight disciplines, in which five belong to engineering and technical sciences. The Bydgoszcz University became a University of Technology and Nature in 2006, previously functioned as a Technical and Agricultural Academy and before that as a Higher School of Engineering. Currently, there are seven departments in the structure of the University of Technology and Nature: construction, architecture and environmental engineering, animal breeding and biology, mechanical engineering, agriculture and biotechnology, chemical technology and engineering, telecommunications, computer science and electrical engineering and management. The University of Technology and Nature is the largest technical university in the region, which in its 70-year history - 2021, I will mention, is the jubilee year - has educated over 70,000. engineers. The change to the Polytechnic will allow universities to remain competitive, maintain prestige, increase scientific and research potential and expand the offer of engineering directions. The university is constantly developing and following the best technical universities in Poland. It expands its teaching facilities and participates in innovative projects, among others. in the development of a prototype of a simple ventilator, which successfully passed tests after connecting to the artificial lung. I am delighted by the immense fact of the proposed bill concerning the change of the name of the university and the appointment of the Bydgoszcz University of Technology to them. Jan and Jędrzej Sniadecki. I am all the more pleased with this fact as a messenger from the Bydgoszcz district. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the land of Bydgoszcz. The Civic Coalition Club will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u260	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u261	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I have the honour to recommend to the High House the support of the bill to change the name of the University of Technology and Nature. Jana and Jędrzej Śniadeckie in Bydgoszcz at: Bydgoszcz University of Technology Jan and Jędrzej Sniadecki. The University of Technology and Natural Sciences in Bydgoszcz is the largest and oldest university in Bydgoszcz that teaches Bachelors, Engineers, Masters and Doctors and the only university in the region that integrates technical, natural, agricultural and economic sciences. Over 70 years of existence, the university walls have left over 60,000. graduates, among them recognized designers in Poland and abroad, architects, engineers of various specialties, construction, mechanics, architecture, environmental engineering, animal breeding and biology, agriculture, biotechnology, chemical engineering, telecommunications and information and electrical engineering. Currently, more than 8,000 are educated in seven departments in stationary and permanent studies, as well as in doctoral and postgraduate studies. students. The training of modern engineering and technical staff, the launching of new needs for the region, the country and the study economy, the building and expansion of individual education processes, the flexibility of the education process, the implementation of systems enabling students to study part of their studies at other national and foreign universities are highly assessed. The university occupies high positions in the rankings of universities, especially in those where the preparation of graduates for the job is evaluated. High Izbo! The name of the University of Technology and Nature in Bydgoszcz is changed at the request of the university rector supported by the positive position of the Senate and the university council and the will of the staff expressed in the referendum. The Coalition Left Club will always support the principle of autonomy of higher education institutions and will always oppose politicians and governments who have the will to impose on universities and academics how to think and how to act scientifically. Therefore, the Left Club fully supports the application of the rector of the University of Technology and Nature Professor Marek Adamski and his colleagues to change the name of the university to: the Bydgoszcz University of Technology. Jana [[♪ The bell ♪]] and Jadrzej Śniadecki in Bydgoszcz. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u262	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u263	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, my speech will also be another laudation in honor of this famous Bydgoszcz university, which is undoubtedly the University of Technology and Nature for them. Jan and Jędrzej Śniadecki in Bydgoszcz. On behalf of the Coalition Poland Club, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I am pleased to present our opinion on the proposal to change the name of this university to: Politechnika. The proposed name is already another change, because it started its history in 1951 as the Evening Engineering School, in 1964 it was renamed the Higher Engineering School, and since 1974 it was the Technical and Agricultural Academy. In 2006, it was named the University of Technology and Natural Sciences. Jan and Jędrzej Sniadecki. During these years the profile of the university changed very strongly - first it was a technical profile, then from the 1970s to the 21st century, strongly dominated by agricultural and natural sciences. At the moment, however, we are also witnessing how our science is changing, how the demand of our market is also changing, hence the proposed name "polytechnics." All this time, the great history of this university has left 55,000 walls. graduates, e.g. designer of Sydney Olympic Stadium mgr inż. Edmund Obiała or well-known cryptologist prof. Józef Pieprzyk. Many of her graduates, as my predecessors mentioned, were sitting and still sitting in this House or having very important ministerial functions. The Bydgoszcz University is one of the best technical schools in the country. He cooperates with many companies, among others. with the famous Bydgoszcz Pesa, and educates excellent specialists desirable on the domestic and international labour market. It also complies with all statutory conditions for the use of the name "polytechnics" because it has the power to confer a doctoral degree in eight disciplines, five of which belong to the fields of engineering and technology. The project we are currently working on in the Sejm has been very widely discussed and consulted within the Bydgoszcz university and it must be added that more than 80% its employees were in favour of renaming the name to the Polytechnic. Polytechnic sounds proud and I think that this university, Bydgoszcz and the region deserve one of the great Bydgoszcz schools - the technical school bears this name. Of course, my club will be in favour of changing its name and we will all vote for changing its name to the Bydgoszcz University of Technology. Jan and Jędrzej Śniadecki in Bydgoszcz. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u264	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u265	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The unimaginable consensus exists in the Parliament's Chamber on this matter, but I think it is an obvious subject for all of us, so that nothing is just to be happy. Of course we will support this, it is a technical change and required by the local university community, so that the Bydgoszcz University of Technology becomes a fact - and good. We hear that most of this university's employees want it, and this is also a prestigious issue, of course. I am in favour, I think it should be so, but I also think and I will say this by the way, that the state should not have the possibility to make such numbers, but it should be that the university is private, has its owners, these owners decide what this university is called and if they wanted this university to be called, the Parabumba, they could call it that and then the graduates of this school would proudly wear the banner, saying that they graduated from Parabumba and not for example. The Bydgoszcz University of Technology. Unfortunately, we live in the system we live in, so we don't have it yet, we're far from it. Well, that's a shame, 'cause that's what it's supposed to be. Nor should the State be allowed to allow universities to exist. Maybe one day we will come to a healthy system, for now we are in a system in which we have to discuss whether the university in Bydgoszcz has the right to change its name. Although, of course, we support this, it would be desirable for the Bydgoszcz University community to decide for itself what the university is called, and it is best that the board of owners, the company running or something. Finally, I just wanted to say that it's nice that we're talking about universities, and we're about to have a second theme in the same style. I regret that by the way we do not talk about the quality of education, because unfortunately our universities, our Polish universities still appear somewhere around 400 places in the ranking of the best universities in the world. This is the subject, and replacing the technical name is something completely side-by-side. Let's get through this. Let's back it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u266	Thank you very much. Any of the ladies and gentlemen want to ask you another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u267	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, it is difficult to ask any questions here, you can only make a statement about the creation of a new university in the sense of the name - the old new university. The University of Technology and Nature in Bydgoszcz is by far the largest technical university in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship and meets the formal requirements to become a polytechnic. He has the right to give a doctor's degree in eight disciplines, including five in the field of engineering and technical sciences. Importantly, this year is celebrated the anniversary of the 70th anniversary of the university, so it is the perfect opportunity and the right time to make groundbreaking decisions, so important for the development of the Bydgoszcz university, the city of Bydgoszcz and the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship. Changing the name of the University of Technology and Nature to the Bydgoszcz University of Technology is a huge prestige. The new name will make the university even more recognizable, and this will certainly be a key argument for (The Bell) the choice of higher education by secondary school graduates. Such a change also offers the opportunity to expand cooperation with many sectors of the economy, enhances the possibility of research, and also gives the opportunity to open new engineering directions. The university will certainly extend the scope of cooperation with other universities, both in the country and in the international arena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u268	Thank you, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u269	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The existence of the first University of Technology in Bydgoszcz arouses the expectations of the inhabitants to increase the capacity of the Bydgoszcz academic community and the expectations of entrepreneurs for new results in the field of training of specialised staff for various economic and social fields. Therefore, I have two questions. For what amount and for what purposes in 2021 and in the coming years the Bydgoszcz University of Technology from the funds of the National Development Plan and the so-called measures. A polish deal? And question two. In connection with the blocking by PiS politicians of the Act on the Establishment of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz as long as the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz will be waiting for the possibility of scientific cooperation by the Bydgoszcz University of Technology with the new autonomous Medical University in Bydgoszcz for education [[♪ The bell ♪]] HR in medical professions, so much needed in Poland not only during the pandemic? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u270	Thank you, sir. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u271	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill aims to change the name of the University of Technology and Natural Sciences. Jana and Jędrzej Śniadecki in Bydgoszcz at the Bydgoszcz University of Technology. This change is extremely important, very expected both by the university community and by the inhabitants of not only Bydgoszcz, but also by the entire voivodship, future students and present students from our voivodship and those who come to us. In particular, it will highlight the nature and profile of the activities of education primarily in the studies leading to the professional degree of engineer or master of engineer and the conduct of scientific activities in the prevailing disciplines of technical engineering sciences. Minister, I have a question about this change of name. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In practice, how will the change of name affect university development and student education? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u272	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u273	Thank you again. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I want to take this opportunity to thank once again all those who contributed to this promotion, because that's how I treat it, and that well-deserved appreciation for the achievements of the University of Technology and Nature, and very soon the University of Technology. It's a pity that even the kind of thing that we all agree on, some people are trying to sort of politicize and dress up in some kind of political narrative. It's very bad that you're trying to mix up some beautiful things that we all enjoy, with some unnecessary narrative that shouldn't happen here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u274	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science of Mr Wojciech Murdzk to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards Mr Szopiński's question, it is difficult to answer such a question because he raised issues which were not directly related to the subject of this law. But I would like to ensure that the national and EU funds for the development of universities are gradually increased and that these opportunities are increasing. On the other hand, the Member realises that both in the National Plan for Reconstruction and in the Polish Lodz there is no stage where specific institutions, entities, regardless of the field, would be indicated, and therefore there are no indications of specific universities. And since the question of the medical university was raised by the Member as if it had nothing to do with the subject, it is good news for all the higher education institutions of doctors, nurses that the National Reconstruction Plan has an exceptionally large amount of resources for this purpose - we will undertake and coordinate this together with the Minister of Health - namely the amount of EUR 770 million foreseen for the development of this area of higher education, which is an extremely large amount, appropriate to those needs which the pandemic has revealed. I answer Mrs Ewa Kozanecka's question. The aim of this change is undoubtedly not only the question of the name, but it is precisely the question of opening the perspective for intensive development, recognition in the region, international recognition, and without international cooperation it is difficult to imagine the dynamic and desirable development of higher education. And that goal will, I think, be achieved. Of course, unambiguous identification as a polytechnic university in the region, but not only in the region, will undoubtedly make the university attractive, which, I hope, will result in further students, and ultimately graduates. I was thinking that the graduates of this new university, when it comes to the name, will be in this distribution of external funds, the EU, in the National Plan for Reconstruction, in Horizon Europe already participate as graduates, because in 2027 this perspective ends, which means we are already working for the smart, good spending of those funds that are ahead of us. This is also the way to strengthen the position and role of the university, which is the polytechnic, because I think with this unambiguous support this will be the finale. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u276	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the parliamentary draft law on the creation of the Zamość Academy (prints Nos 1101 and 1147). I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Zieliński to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the parliamentary draft law on the creation of the Zamość Academy, print no. 1101. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 14 April 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for first reading. The bill provides for the establishment of the Zamoj Academy in place of the currently functioning State University. Simon Simonowicz in Zamość and historically refers to a university founded by Jan Zamoyski. The Education, Science and Youth Committee, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 11 May 2021, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u278	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Zieliński, the Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the parliamentary draft law on the creation of the Zamość Academy, print No. 1101. The bill provides for the establishment of the Zamoj Academy in place of the currently operating State University. Simon Simonovice in Zamość. The new university, which is to start its activity on 1 September 2021, historically refers to the academy set up in 1594 by Jan Zamoyski, chancellor of the great Crown. Zamość Academy was the first private university in the First Republic, and Simon Simonowice contributed to its formation and organization. The motto of the academy contained in the foundation act of July 5, 1600 was the famous operative part of Jan Zamoyski's: "This is the reality of their youth's hiding. The Academy at the beginning of its existence was an important point on the map of Polish education, a centre of scientific thought. For many years, there were outstanding professors and scientists at the academy. Melchior Stefanides, First Rector Jan Niedźwiecki-Ursinus, Adam Burski, Tomasz Drezner or Stanisław Staszic. After the first dissection of the university in 1784 it was liquidated by the Austrians and was replaced by a high school. For many years, the scientific and local communities of Zamojszczyzna sought to re-activate the Zamoj Academy, but these tests were always unsuccessful. Currently, the draft law on the establishment of the Zamoj Academy, tabled by the group of Members, has received very strong social support, visible in a number of declarations of local government and government from the Lublin Voivodeship. Among them, it is important to highlight the declaration of support for the initiative of the establishment of the Academy by President Zamość, Marshal of Lublin Voivodeship or Lublin Voivodeship. The bill provides for the continuity of functioning in Zamość University. The property of the university will become the property of the academy, which will take over all the rights and responsibilities of the university. It was assumed that the academy would have to comply with the requirements laid down in Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Law of 20 July 2018 - Law on Higher Education and Science, thus obtaining by the end of 2025 a scientific category of at least B+ in at least two scientific disciplines. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, taking the above into account, will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u280	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Civic Coalition in relation to the draft law on the creation of the Zamość Academy, prints no. 1101 and 1147. The project has many, very many fundamental flaws and very few poorly substantiated advantages. It is a parliamentary project, and that is surprising, because at the committee meeting the Minister gave him a recommendation, so the question arises as to why it is not a government project. But you can understand that when you read the text. Now these flaws, because when it comes to virtues, there's nothing to talk about. First of all, the draft law is incompatible, as was mentioned in the committee on several occasions, with the provision of the Law - Law on Higher Education, which is a system law and therefore very binding. The Act states that the name "Academia" belongs and can only be given and used in relation to individuals with at least two powers to confer a doctoral degree. The university currently does not meet this condition, but its strategy states that it is to achieve these powers as soon as possible. This impatience is not justified. We are aware that the direction of setting up such a university is right for a city such as Zamość. It is only right, however, if it is done in accordance with the law. Secondly, the law was not consulted at the project level primarily with the academic community, and a good practice requires such consultations to take place, not meetings, but consultations. The fact that there was a local council consultation is really not enough. There are negative opinions: firstly, the Offices of Sejm Analysis, the Polish Academy of Sciences, the Main Council of Science and Higher Education and finally the Conference of Public Rectors of Professional Universities, which even say that a kind of acquisition of property is a fact - it is in the position - if in the law, in the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 is written that property comprising the property and other property rights of the university, the current university, or the State University. Simon Simonovich will be taken over by the academy. And a second article that might surprise you, maybe even scare you. Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 says that contracts with employees will expire 3 months after the entry into force of the Act if they are not offered new working conditions before that date. On this issue we will report an amendment (the bell) because we cannot accept the fact that employees after 16 years, and many such workers are... Marshal, let me finish. Finish it. After 16 years of work. So they've worked out this property. This is extremely humiliating for the whole team, for the whole academic community. And I'm done. A few days ago, Reuters reported that Viktor Orbán was doing a reform of higher education in order to create foundations that would manage the university's assets. I'd like to ask the applicants if they were in special training with Viktor Orbán. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Member. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u282	Thank you. And please, Mr Marcin Kulasek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The Left wants a balanced territorial development of Poland, supporting medium-sized cities, including the former voivodship capitals. Zamość is one of the cities that lost the status of the capital city of Zamość as a result of the reform of the AWS-UW government. The first years after Buzek's reform were very difficult for cities like Zamość. Therefore, measures to build or strengthen state institutions, including research institutions in medium-sized cities, deserve support. Unfortunately, the justification of the project raises concerns and concerns. It is rather far from the tradition of Renaissance humanism, far from the vision of Poland open to Europe, leading a dialogue with the West. The vision of Poland, a besieged fortress, closed to modern intellectual currents is troubling. I don't understand why a bill creating new universities isn't a government initiative. Why didn't he go through the government's legislative path with the relevant public consultation? Doesn't the government support this project? Why is this project not supported by the Polish Academy of Sciences? Why is it not supported by the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland? Is it because behind the noble idea lies the leap to the existing State University of them. Simon Simonovic? All her employees are to lose their jobs and submit to the verification made by Minister Czarnek's men. And who's gonna point to the president of the new university? Of course, Minister Czarnek. Instead of moving towards sustainable development of Poland, we have a jump to an existing university. Instead of referring to the beautiful traditions of the Zamość Academy we have a purge announcement and an attempt to create jobs for our own. Therefore, on behalf of the Left Club, I submit two amendments, i.e. deletion of the provision of the dismissal of staff of the State University. Simon Simonovic and the deletion of the provision concerning the procedure for the appointment of the rector. The adoption of these amendments provides for the support of the Left for the further fate of the parliamentary submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u284	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jan Łopata, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u285	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition would like to present our opinion on the draft law establishing the Zamość Academy. High Seym! This is the kind of things that will be commonplace for young people to hide. In addition, I am convinced that only public education that is compatible and good does citizens. This famous and true opinion was expressed by the captain of the great Crown Chancellor Jan Zamoyski, highly deserved of course for Zamość, the founder of the Zamoj Academy for the Republic. In general, it should be noted and underlined with recognition that the academic traditions of Zamość and the region were and are very alive. Although the former Zamość Academy founded in 1594 operated less than two centuries until 1784, its huge achievements and the city's creative function were not forgotten and transformed into many social initiatives aimed at the return of Zamość to the elite of academic cities. This occurred only in 2005, when the Council of Ministers of the Republic decided to set up a State Higher Vocational School in Zamość. At that time, the university had only two rooms in the historic building of the Zamość Academy. Today, thanks to its laborious, effective work, the university has significant assets. This development should be noted and satisfaction given to the authorities and the community of universities. Why do I say that? Because it is difficult to pass indifferently to the position of the academic community of the State University. Simon Simonowice in Zamość, which is to be transformed, who regretfully informs that they are in favour of reactivation of the Zamość Academy, but respecting the rights and dignity of employees who have been building the academics of this city in Zamość for 16 years. They charge the lack of consultation and even lack of knowledge about the proposals of the law. There is also a serious charge that the bill undermines autonomy and violates the statute. The Ministry of Science and Higher Education also agrees with this position in response to the interpellation last autumn. This is also shared by the Polish Academy of Sciences, KRASP. In addition, the KRASP states in its negative opinion that the solution for granting a university a name: academy is incompatible with the provisions of the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science, which is a system law, and should not be taken in the context of accidental and individual solutions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the case of the University of State. Simon Simonowica, as the authorities inform, would only be possible to change the status of a vocational university to an academic institution as a result of the introduction of evolutionary activities. High Seym! Taking these opinions into account, and above all recognizing that it has been raped on the living tissue of the university's body, I find that the Polish Coalition Club is in favour of reactivating the Zamoj Academy, but respecting the laws and logic of objective action in force in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u286	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u287	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice! As with the previous discussion about the Bydgoszcz University of Technology, there was quite a bit of clarity, so here, unfortunately, there is a great deal of confusion. The first issue relates to the opinion of the Polish Academy of Sciences on the draft of this law, which is absolutely devastating to the idea of drawing up this law. Similarly suggested by the General Council of Science and Higher Education, I quote: The currently functioning State University them. Simon Simonowice in Zamość, which is to form the basis for the establishment of the Zamość Academy, does not meet the requirements set out in Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Law of 20 July 2018 - Law on Higher Education and Science and therefore does not have academic status. The Council calls for this initiative to be postponed until the university meets the statutory conditions for academy status. In addition, there is information from the university representatives themselves that the law and this idea were not consulted with them, and it is even done against their will and is in contrast to what we have just discussed in the case of the Bydgoszcz University of Technology. Ladies and gentlemen! If there is so much doubt and if all of these bodies, apart from the initiators of this law, are opposed to this movement, the question must be asked. What is it? And since the university already has a lot of money and it's a bit of a bite, maybe the point is that it's some kind of leap from you to the university, maybe you want it there. Put your people in, maybe you want to take a step forward in this case because you can do it this way? At this point, you want to take over this university in some way forcefully and you have the tools, of course, you are the dictators, as I said on the previous occasion. The state should not be able to decide what the university is called or what is being taught at the university, what are the directions She takes care of what kind of specialists she's training. The State should be completely cut off from such opportunities. And since, unfortunately, in the system we are talking about, we are not living, you are about to decide forcefully, contrary to the decisions of all the bodies that exist here, listed on the Parliament's website. Anyway, their decisions, their opinions you posted on the sejm page and I didn't see a single positive opinion on this bill. I don't know why you're going through this, but if you don't know what's going on, it could be money, it could be jobs. And that's what I'm gonna leave you with. The Confederacy will probably vote against it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u288	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The inhabitants of Zamość and Zamość! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Circle15 - Direct Democracy on the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law on the creation of the Zamość Academy. Zamość Academy is the third university in Poland. It operated for 190 years and was liquidated by the Austrian possessor in 1784. For many years, there has been a need to reactivate the Zamość Academy. In the third Polish Republic, the idea of her resurrection in 2000 was expressed in the resolution of the Senate of the Catholic University of Lublin, which was supported by dozens of regional organizations, among others. Solidarity, Boys' Battalions, Children of Zamość, the World Union of Soldiers of the National Army or the Zamość Katyn Family. Relevant resolutions in this respect were adopted by the Zamość City Council in 2003 and subsequent resolutions in 2004, 2005 and 2019. Established in 2005, a higher vocational school was obliged to work towards the establishment of the Zamość Academy on its basis. Unfortunately, according to the 2019 perspective ranking for 34 PWSZ in Poland, the Zamość University took 32nd place, and in 2020 it was the last one. Let me repeat: the last, 34th place. For these reasons, thanks to the support of the President of the City of Zamość Andrzej Wnuk, an extraordinary session of the City Council of Zamość took place in 2019. At that time I pointed out the need to take energetic steps towards the establishment of the Zamość Academy. I trust that the resurrection after 237 years of the Zamość Academy will become an additional development impulse for Zamość region and an impulse for Poland's well-being. The present extraordinary way of setting up the Zamość Academy is the duty of parliamentarians to satisfy the long-term efforts of the authorities of the city of Zamość and representatives of the social side who have put a lot of effort into the process of reactivation of the Zamość Academy. It is also a fulfillment of the dream of the last chief of the Count Jan Zamoyski, who already talked with the authorities in the 1980s about the reactivation of the Zamoj Academy. I regret to stress that the current pace with regard to the fulfilment of the requirements of the Act - the Law on Higher Education determining the establishment of the Zamość Academy, or in fact the absence thereof, taking into account these rankings, requires the intervention of the Sejm, which we are carrying out this draft law. In view of the above, I ask the High House on behalf of the inhabitants of Zamość and Zamość for the support of the bill submitted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u290	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward for the question? If not, we begin the questions. Time: 1 minute. First, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project assumes that the establishment of the academy will have to bring it into line with the requirements of the Law on Higher Education and Science, so that the academy must obtain a scientific category of at least B by 2025. I have a question addressed personally to Minister Czarnek: Will the other Polish professional universities be able to count on such kindness expressed by the Minister: on the one hand as a Member and on the other hand as a Minister? Can all Polish vocational universities become dorms from now on? I would very kindly ask the Minister to state his position and give it to me in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u292	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Łopata, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u293	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me ask you a simple question: Is the writing of the article. 5 (3), which reads that the employment relationship with the workers referred to in paragraph. Point 1 (1) shall expire 3 months after the date of entry into force of the Act, having regard to Article. Six? Or, as I'm going to say, has this order been used on purpose? Art. 6 says that: By the end of the second period, after the establishment of the academy, the evaluation of the quality of scientific activity, the academy will adapt to the requirements. If she didn't adjust, it's in her mouth. 2 is said to be losing the ability to use the name academy. And I suspect that this will be the result, of course, in a different frame, with another personnel cast, but this will be the result. In other words, Janów Podlaski will be in Zamość. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u294	Thank you, sir. Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u295	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Under the pretence of making residents and residents of Zamość happy, an assassination of Polish science and Polish higher education is being carried out. I don't think the High House has seen such a scandalous bill in a long time. It's a project that we have future students, candidates for college, that they're going to study at the academy when the university doesn't have that kind of authority or that kind of opportunity. The Sejm breaks the Law on Higher Education directly, the Sejm leads to the fact that the non-constitutional, illegal laws are being prosecuted only so that the PiS gentlemen, with Minister Czarnek in charge, the minister signed under the draft Polish Parliamentary Law, can take over the universities. This is against the law, against good manners and unjust. By the way, they're still cleaning up at the university, throwing out employees just to take over these colleges. Please answer in writing: Is it so, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That in a moment we'll find that one of PiS' politicians will be the rector and another chancellor? I ask you to ensure that high standards are maintained here, those standards that you are trying to break this absolutely outrageous law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u296	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is addressed to the Minister, who at the committee meeting said that the solution to this project is a unitary, non-infringing system. So I ask: Are individual solutions illegal? And how many individual solutions do we already have? Because it's hard to accept. I ask you to answer me, Minister, today, and also in writing, because I did not find the justification for the definition of a unit solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u298	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Does Zamość deserve the academy? I'm sure you do. Does he deserve to create this Zamość Academy in this way? Absolutely not. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, the parliamentary project, is being tried against the position of the university community, with the negative opinion of the General Council of Science and Higher Education, and finally with the negative opinion of the Polish Academy of Sciences, which indicates that for today the university does not meet the requirements set out in the Law on Higher Education, because it does not have academic status. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read only part of this justification of the Polish Academy of Sciences: Surprisingly, the justification for the transformation of the vocational school into an academy and its main purpose were accepted. In the opinion of the Polish Academy of Sciences, this is contrary to the Constitution, the principle of freedom of study, freedom of discussion and views, freedom of search and investigation into the truth. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask what is the position of Minister responsible for Science and Higher Education in this regard. Is every university, e.g. The National Higher Vocational School in Leszno, which meets the requirements by 2025, will also be able to be transformed into an academy? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u300	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The time proposed in the draft law for fulfilling the requirements of the Law on Higher Education, i.e. 5 years, is very short, especially if we realise that the WWSZ in Zamość took more than 15 years to start the first level of second degree studies. Therefore, it is important to really get fast enough to meet these requirements of the Law on Higher Education, but money is also important. The authorities of the city of Zamość stood at the height of the task, handed over several buildings to the academy, i.e. PWSZ. There are rooms, but we still need money. My question to the Minister: What additional money will be sent to the Zamość Academy in order to meet the requirements? And I would ask the applicant to disclose, on the basis of which directions The Zamość Academy will comply with the requirements of the Law on Higher Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u302	Thank you very much, sir. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The process of renaming the State College Simon Simonowice for the Zamość Academy is in a radically different position than the earlier point connected with polytechnics. It is inconceivable that against the will of the university authorities and despite the fact that the university does not meet any formal requirements, the government forcefully wants to change the name of the university, and that is only for what it emphasizes many environments to get rid of uncomfortable scientists. I appeal to you to refrain from forceful solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u304	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science of Mr Wojciech Murdzek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the vast majority of those asking questions were required to reply in writing or to answer in person by Minister Przemysław Czarnek, we will respect that will. On the other hand, it seems that as a Member, I do not really see such a space that someone who is a minister and at the same time a Member would be deprived of the rights of the Member. The Minister's signature is therefore most appropriate. It seems that questioning this is a far-reaching undertaking. Of course, in my commentary on the non-systemic solution I meant, and it is still true that the initiative of Members is not about changing the system, but about one university, a particular university. In this sense, this is not a system solution. This is a proposal for a specific entity and is dedicated to a specific entity. Minister, it's really better to stop talking. It is a parliamentary initiative. And that's how it's supposed to be seen. Of course, it is not that the change of name is linked to another way of counting subsidies, with some additional funds. Of course, the support of local and regional authorities can result in such activity. In contrast, changing the university category to a university would change the counting algorithm. Then we would have such consequences, and this is not the case, and the discussion of some changes in the way of financing is inappropriate. But, of course, the university can apply in those spaces where such opportunities are created. We don't have the required signals for this kind of work to go on. I do not rule out, but within the framework that all higher education institutions apply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It was a shame.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u306	Thank you. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was submitted, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this draft... Can I answer as an applicant? You're welcome. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u307	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I would like to say two sentences in the context of this discussion. We're at a facility where politics is practiced. It's normal in democracy. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to some aspects that are not yours, I have an impression, known. He moved them, among others. Mr Sachaiko. Laws, for example. If you allow me, I will be happy to come to the law. You're coming wherever you want. Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about a bill that is waiting for the inhabitants of Zamość, which is expected by local governments, over 60 local governments over political divisions, who know that such a university belongs to this region. It will be up to you whether you support this project. There's the support of scientists, there's the support of people associated with the university... Minister Czarnek, a scientist. ...which, Mrs Zamość, have united in the Social Committee for the Reactivation of the Zamość Academy. There is also an interest in developing the university, on the side of the employees of the State University. Simon Simonovice in Zamość. I know what I'm saying, which is why I decided to add it. As far as the law is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I encourage Members to... They're familiar with BAS's opinion. ...they checked the voting issues in the Sejm on the Act establishing the Academy. Jakub of Paradyża, which was appointed on 13 May 2016 by the Sejm. On the basis of other regulations. You know that. I can give you your seat, Madame, as you wish to say. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Therefore, the project we are investigating in the Sejm, i.e. the project of establishing the Zamość Academy, is identical to the project that was submitted in 2016. It's the same project. This is the same project that at the time in the Chamber supported 405 Members, only 7 were against. But you do know that the bill has changed? Therefore, I am a little surprised at the situation that you do not know this fact. I would ask you, however, to take note of this factor during the further process of this law, because I think it is important. This is not a violation of the constitution, of the rules of science. This is not a violation of the law in a systemic sense, as the Minister said. It is because there's another basis. It is such a unitary direction that this time the Polish-Ukrainian border - earlier law on the establishment of a university, academy in Gorzów Wlkp. concerned the Polish-German border - this region, inhabitants, local governments, which will support the establishment of this academy, give a chance. Because there are declarations of commitment and financial commitment, and through incentives for young people. But we support, too, only legally. Therefore, when I hear that you are in favour or even against, I think that this fact may be important. Of course, there was also a second question for me. Nobody was in training, Mrs Orbán, because it was enough to read about the 2016 Act on the Academy in Gorzów Wlkp, which, by the way, is now in the ranking, which Mr Sachajko also mentioned, led by the Prospective Foundation, in the first place. In fact, the university of Zamość occupies other places that we talked about today. What's the opinion of BAS? Therefore, I think that this problem is shaped differently. I would also like to draw attention to the opinions presented at the committee meeting. I personally thanked the rector of the state university in Zamość, who said that the mission of the university, which is enshrined in the bill, is exactly implemented in this university. I am surprised that the Polish Academy of Sciences has been able to function for so many years - with such a mission, which is enshrined in the draft law - a state university, which has now been in operation and has not been able to fulfil its full scope of ambition with employees since 2005. That could be done. And now there's a problem. I just reserve this kind of tension in this situation. I hope that the state as people who are open to the needs of the inhabitants - I stress this once again: there is support over political divisions, the university is enshrined in the strategy for the development of Lublin Voivodship - following the example of 2006. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You will want to support this project. Of course, I would like to thank the Members who signed this project, the members of the Social Committee and all those who support this bill. However, I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u308	Thank you, Madame. It is very interesting that individual violations of the Constitution are not bad, but individual violations of the Constitution. I thought it was just breaking the rules of our most important document. [[Applause]] Please, in the procedure of correcting Mrs Barbara Nowack.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u309	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! If you'd waited a moment, I'd explain it to you, because you obviously didn't understand that you were living in a different legal environment than you were living in 2016. At that time, there was a new law on higher education, which also Minister Murdzek, who is here in the Chamber, will certainly be pleased to bring closer to you, which has also changed the rules on the appointment of universities and the powers they may have. You can rely on what happened in 2012, 2003, 1750, but we live in 2021 and you are trying to fool people in Zamość. Let's be clear. What you're proposing is a granda and a hucka. Apart from the fact that this is an introduction to non-constitutional activities concerning the area of science and higher education, this is a simple deception of the people you say: you will be at the academy, while the academy will not. We all would like the inhabitants of Zamość to have equal educational opportunities, but do not condemn them to your fraud. If you don't know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Under which laws you act, you will find out, because even as chancellor of this university, you will be angry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u310	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the draft law on amendment of the law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland - Civil Code (Print No 1125). I ask the Secretary of State of the President's Office to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House the legislative initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda: a draft law amending the law - Civil Code. The amendment of the Civil Code proposed by your President is the addition of an article. 446 The amendment of the Civil Code proposed by your President is of major social importance. For many years there have been discrepancies in the practice of trading, but also in the case law of the general courts. It should be borne in mind that this issue concerns situations of very serious, cases of non-traumatic coma or vegetative states. Therefore, on the part of members of the immediate family of the injured person there is a strong and long-lasting trauma. Over the past years, the case law of the general courts has formed a dominant position that such harm is to be rectified by payment of an appropriate amount of compensation. The basis for the judgment was either Art. 448 Civil Code or Art. 446 § 4 of the Civil Code, but it was necessary for such a judgment either to extend the interpretation of these provisions, or to apply them by analogy. In practice, this also led to a situation where the courts refused to make amends. Undoubtedly, the apparent discrepancy in such socially important matters is not desirable from the point of view of either the democratic rule of law or the principles of social justice or the citizen's confidence in the State and its rights. Family ties are the foundation of the proper functioning of the family and are subject to legal protection; as an example, an article can be mentioned. 18 and Article 18 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 71 constitutions or articles. 23 Family and Care Code. Their loss following an illegal act, e.g. as a result of a road accident, the President's assessment should be subject to the payment of an appropriate amount of compensation. In these cases, the injury of the nearest person is undoubtedly similar to that of the injury found in Article. 446 Civil Code, i.e. injury directly related to the victim's death. In both cases, the closest family members suffer equally much, and in addition, in the event of severe and permanent damage, this may be a long-term condition. Given the nature of the claim and the discrepancy revealed in the case-law, the assessment of the President is justified by a swift and adequate legislative response to this issue with a clear view to establishing a normative basis for such claims. The proposed solution will first and foremost ensure respect for the principle of equality before the law and will ensure that cases are dealt with in a similar way in similar factual situations. The right to redress will be particularly dramatic when, following severe and permanent injury to the body or health disorder, there is an inability to establish or continue a family relationship. The subjective scope, as proposed by the President, is defined in a manner similar to the provisions of the Civil Code already in force and applies to the closest members of the injured family. In the draft article. 2 A transitional provision is also proposed. In view of previous practice, but also the complexity of court cases, the President proposes that the new rules apply to events occurring before the date of entry into force of the Act and on the date of entry into force of the Act which are still pending. In view of the social importance of these matters, this solution does not oppose the democratic principles (the bell) of the rule of law. The proposed vacathio legis is a month from the date of publication of the bill. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda kindly request the support of the project presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u312	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u313	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! We are starting a process on a presidential project, which consists of only two articles, but these are articles that give hope to families who are victims of a situation in which they are suddenly in. The project provides for the addition of provisions in the Civil Code that the immediate family of the injured person, who has suffered permanent injury as a result of an accident, will be entitled to compensation for breach of the family bond. In the event of severe and permanent injury or health disorder resulting in the inability to establish or continue a family relationship, the court may grant the immediate members of the injured family an adequate amount of compensation for the injury suffered. It should be stressed that family ties are the foundation of the proper functioning of the family and are subject to legal protection - Article. 18 and Article 18 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 71 Constitution and Article. 23 Family and Care Code. Their loss following an illegal act, e.g. as a result of a road accident, it should be repaired by payment of an appropriate amount of compensation for broken ties in dramatic circumstances. Family members suffer just as much, and the most severe and irreversible health conditions are associated with the severe, endless harm of the nearest victim. The break-up of a family relationship can only be mentioned in exceptional circumstances in which there has been no disturbance, disruption or deterioration of the relationship, but the actual inability to establish or maintain the contact appropriate to a given type of relationship, in particular the bond between children and parents, due to a severe and deep condition of impairment of vital functions due to post-traumatic coma or vegetative condition, a condition associated with brain damage or another deep condition of impairment of vital functions. I would like to stress here that these are circumstances in which there has been no disturbance, disruption or deterioration of the bond, but the actual inability to establish or maintain a contact appropriate to a particular type of relationship of the loved ones due to a severe health condition. The assessment of all the grounds for redress will be made on the basis of the specific circumstances of the case, the obligation to indicate which will rest on the compensation being made. Severe and permanent injury in such cases causes the inability to establish or continue a family relationship. On the part of members of the immediate family of the injured person there is a severe and long-lasting trauma. In such tragic situations, the effect of breaking family ties is similar to the death of a loved one, and the suffering of the nearest family member associated with such a patient is dominant over a longer period of time, and the intensity of feeling hopeless is no less than the trauma associated with death. Due to the social importance of the subject matter of regulation, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft Print Act No 1125. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u314	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Jaśkowiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club regarding the draft amendment of the Civil Code submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland, contained in print No 1125. The draft submitted suggests that in the Civil Code after the article. 446 The current procedural practice indicates that Article has been applied so far. 448 or 446 § 4 of the Civil Code, using an extension interpretation or using it by analogy, some courts also dismiss claims in this respect claiming that there is no legal basis for damages in the Code. The solution proposed by the President of the Republic of Poland resolves these doubts. I think it's the right thing to do. The concept of the closest family members, I think, will also not raise doubts in case law. This is a concept that is defined in many laws and based on rich case law. Despite my internal doubts, I am willing to assume that the application of these provisions to claims arising from events prior to the date of entry into force of the Act and pending on the date of its entry into force is justified. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u316	Thank you very much, Member. Catherine Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Left Club in relation to the draft law contained in print No 1125. On the day of the accident, Catherine J. was 17. She was a high school student. A friend who ran Renault Mégane lost control of the vehicle and crashed into a tree and died a week later. He had morphine and amphetamines in his blood. The girls were not tested for this because of her severe condition. She suffered extensive injuries, her medical condition was assessed as vegetative. Since then, it requires 24/7 care in every aspect of life, and the chances of improvement are low. Edith B. From the moment of the traffic accident which caused her severe brain injury, she has been in a state of deep unconscious shutdown, in a vegetative state. There's no way to make contact with her. She has been completely incapacitated, and with the current state of medical knowledge, it is not possible to improve her health. She was 34 on the day of the accident. She was married, the mother of a 6-year-old son, worked as a doctor, a dermatologist, and wrote a doctor's degree. He's the only child of his parents. A young mother who raises children three and four years of age alone because of a medical error gets brain swelling and then stays in a stable vegetative state. In the light of experts' opinions, the loss of a mother destructively affects children's mental development, leading to adaptive, emotional and emotional difficulties. These are just a few stories, human tragedies, in which case the court had to decide whether or not to make amends to the victims of crime. The proceedings lasted for years, and the decisions were different. You don't have to, and you can't wait. You don't have to wait for someone in a coma to wake up to find that she and her loved ones are suffering. You don't have to and you can't wait to make amends for this suffering. Family members who are close to a post-traumatic coma or a vegetative state often suffer, however, than when a loved one dies. Appreciation must be guaranteed directly in the law. The granting of compensation to members of the injured family is to be possible in the event of severe and permanent injury to the body or health disorder which results in a break-up or inability to establish family ties. The introduction of such an amendment proposes this submission, a presidential draft amending the Civil Code contained in Seym Printing No 1125. The proposed amendment is intended to help resolve the differences of case law that have arisen in recent years, both at the level of the general courts and at the level of the Supreme Court. Currently, the Civil Code makes it possible for the court to grant the nearest family members an adequate amount of compensation for the harm suffered only in the case of a loved one who has died as a result of an illegal act. The rules do not specify in detail the amounts which can be decided in such a case because of the specific nature of each case. In practice, problems related to the granting of redress to family members start when a person suffers severe and permanent injury or health disorder. The proposal therefore proposes that the normative basis for such decisions be expressed directly in the following Article. 446 What is equally important, this amendment could apply not only to events that occurred only after the amendment of the legislation. Family members whose claims will not be renewed could also request payment of compensation if they meet these criteria. In view of the social importance of the problem, the amendment is to enter into force within one month of its publication. In view of the importance and social importance of the problem presented here, the Left Club also supports these solutions, contained in print 1125. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u318	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As the famous Mayor of Pomeranian Stone Stefan Oleszczuk said: good Antek from someone else's bag. I was just at the Health Committee meeting where the bill was drafted. All the Members of the Left, the POs, have gone out of line to help this group, to add, to add, to add, of course, out of the pockets of those people who have no money to help their relatives who have suffered a serious accident. And those guys don't have any money because it went to her. If you were to take away some authority from people, you'd be yelling. But if you deny them the need to pay for something or maintain something, it is said that it is very good that you take off the burden. However, it also removes responsibility. A sense of family bond disappears, a man thinks he's not the one who's supposed to take care of a crippled member of the family, but that's what the state is for. The state takes over, this is one step, another small step towards the totalitarian state. The State that is responsible for everything also has all the rights. If he's responsible for everything, he has the right to collect taxes to do it all. I repeat, one step at a time, the state takes responsibility. Where does he get the money for that? He's taking away his family. He picks up the family, on the way he keeps an official who picks up the family and pays the witness, checks whether it is due or not, they're commissions, that's a huge social cost. This social cost is falling to society as a whole. This is a very small example, but incredibly distinctive. When you cry a little bit over it, it will give 5 or 10 examples of people who are suffering and have no help, you can make the Sejm want to lean in and spend the taxpayer's money without seeing that perhaps this money is a grandmother who will only eat one buns because the other one will no longer be able to afford it. That's what TV doesn't notice, but that money's coming from somewhere. If he charges this to supermarkets, the supermarkets will raise the price of this muffin by 5 gr in order to pay it. So that, unfortunately, the good heart is on the Left, the right hand has a mind. The right hand is not guided by a good heart, because a good heart can only lead the country to ruin. If a good daddy gives his son everything he asks, he'll ruin him, demoralize him. The same goes for a government that treats society that way. Yeah, well, that's basic, it's minor, but it's incredibly characteristic. By accepting this, we cause another small increase in the state, we recognise the responsibility of the State, and therefore the right of the State to take care of all and all, we recognise that the State is responsible for all. This is a classic slave system. In a slave's system, you were responsible for your slave and had to treat him. If a peasant broke his leg, a good man had him taken to a cirul and you paid for it. This is a classic aspect of the slave system, i.e. in this case of serfdom. People aren't responsible for themselves. You're responsible for them. Their master is responsible for them, and in people there is such a belief that they are no longer responsible for anything. If they get misfortune, the state will give them some compensation for it. I've even heard cases of people having their way with me. They cut their legs so they could have a lot of subsidies and all kinds of... Yeah, there was a discussion on TV about the invalids that attacked me, there were people like that. If you give such benefits, there will always be people willing to benefit from them. This is not the case, but - I repeat - it is a general trend, a general principle. And as a rule, I will vote against it. Because, I repeat, rules are important, not individual cases. We need to watch the law work, but also how this law affects society. Like she said, sleep. Margaret Thatcherov, who pulled England out of the crisis: if we give benefits to single mothers, it is an incentive for women to become single mothers. You must always remember the ricochet with which you meet laws that are designed by those who want the best, but hell is paved with good intentions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u320	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u321	Monsieur Marshal! High Seym! And I think it's a good thing that there's a legal solution to pay compensation when the closest family member suffers serious health damage which results in the inability to establish or continue a family relationship. The designer shall compare this to the injury referred to in Article. 446 § 4 k.c. The designer refers to particularly dramatic situations where, following severe and permanent injury to health, it is no longer possible to have a family relationship. And then it's gonna go away. It could be post-traumatic coma, sir, brain damage. Such situations can be compared to the death of a loved one - said the Minister - or traumatized at such tragic times. However, it is difficult to specify precisely the events which will result in such redress. However, it will be important to determine what is a family bond and who it actually exists between. After all, it is worth noting that the rules of civil law use the concept of a loved one, the closest person, but in the codes we will not find a precise definition of these terms. Law experts of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 signal that in the project the closest member of the family should replace the concept with the closest person. Let us not rush this project, as it often happens in this Seym. Let us discuss, let us allow experts to speak, in this case let us take into account various legal opinions, because in the doctrine of discussion it is possible to grant compensation to concubines, pupils of the deceased, fiancé or other persons who do not remain in the relationship of kinship, affinity or adoption. In its judgment of 21 March 2013, the Supreme Court pointed out that, in each case, people living together could have an emotional bond that would justify giving them the status of loved ones. There are also some representatives of the doctrine who believe that to the family within the meaning of Art. 446 § 3 of the Civil Code should also include pupils, brides, concubines, if their relationship is of sufficient durability and has a sufficiently strong economic community. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 supports this project because we think it is right to grant compensation, but indeed to the nearest victims, with whom there is no link. We agree with the Minister. Let us remember in this case respect and equality before the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u322	Thank you. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u323	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, sir, with all due respect to you, you will not be here. I don't suspect people who are involved in traffic accidents that they want to have an accident. This is a sudden and unpredictable event. This will be just a court ruling that will finally sort things out very important to many, many people. And now I will go to the question which Mr Zimoch has already asked, and I have a similar line of thinking. We have a person who is the only provider of the family, but is the closest person to those people, which means he is not a family according to the code. It suffers an accident: So who will be the general beneficiary of the project? Who's gonna benefit from the bill? Can it extend (the bell) to the nearest ones? Thank you. The judges will settle this. And lawyers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u324	Thank you very much. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice. Lawyers who... They'll benefit from it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u325	Dear Marshal! Dear Mr. President, Minister! Minister! I would like to thank the President very much for this very important bill. The project is very short, because only a few tasks, but very important from the point of view of social importance, from the point of view of the importance of the project. Indeed, this need for amendment is due precisely to this discrepancy in judicial case law. This dominant line of inquiry is that they are indeed judged by the courts to make amends to the nearest family members of the injured family for the injury in the form of a broken family bond, but we know very well, as it was also shown in this discussion, that there are cases of refusal by the courts of this compensation. So thank you again for this next legislative initiative (the President's bell).
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u326	Thank you very much. Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on the amendment of the law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland - Civil Code is certainly a good initiative, the necessary legal act, which aims to resolve interpretation doubts, to harmonise case law on granting compensation paid to the nearest one. I would like, through the Minister, to ask the President to present such projects more frequently in his activity, to act more often, as the people expect, legally, in accordance with the Constitution, because unfortunately the practice so far is completely different. I read this bill as a turn in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u328	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act - Civil Code I would like to obtain specific information. Perhaps you have such data. How many people, how many families of victims of a crime, as a result of which the victims were in a post-traumatic coma or a persistent vegetative state, have they received so far, or have they received an annual average and how much compensation? How many people receive compensation on the basis of the rules currently in force as a result of positive judicial decisions, and how many decisions have been dismissed or have they been removed on average each year? Do applicants have such data and if so, what order Are those numbers? There's one more thing I wanted to ask you. As many cases of redress for families of victims of crime have been suspended (the bell) and as long as they have not been settled on the basis of the current rules, and this would apply to them now the proposed solution. To what extent can families be compensated as a result of the adoption and application of the proposed legal solution? Thank you, and I'll have the information in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u330	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u331	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Family ties are the foundation of the proper functioning of the family and are subject to legal protection. Their loss following an act, e.g. as a result of a road accident, it should actually be repaired by payment of an appropriate amount of compensation. That's the kind of reasoning that's right. This type of solution is among others. necessary for the constitutional protection of the family referred to in Article. 18 constitutions, and principles of equality before the law. But I would like to follow Mr Tomasz Zimoch's reasoning, because I also believe that we should work through this law, moving towards such a way that this witness can also be taken by the closest person, not just the closest member of the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u332	Thank you very much. That was the last question. The Secretary of State at the President's Office, Mrs Margaret Paprocka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very kindly for your support for the President's proposal. In fact, all questions come down to a definition and a circle of beneficiaries. The President's proposal refers to today's conceptual network in the current provisions of the Civil Code and to the consistency of the legal system it uses the category of closest family members. There is no doubt that there is room for discussion during committee work, for careful consideration of this matter. However, I allow myself already at this stage to note that the proposal concerns an article. 446 But people are gonna stop covering themselves, aren't they?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u334	Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Romanowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u335	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the basic elements of the government's draft position, which is at the final stage of the procession. It is also clearly positive about the purpose of this regulation. We will propose, recommend a proposal for further legislative work with some minor comments to be considered during the legislative process, because in principle the proposal deserves approval. The introduction into the Civil Code of Regulation, which will clearly prejudice the granting of a direct claim to the immediate victims for compensation for the injury mentioned, which results from remaining directly injured in a state of inability to establish or continue a family relationship, is indeed necessary. This introduces legal certainty, removes the uncertainty arising from previous case law and, of course, justifies the constitutional principle of equality vis-à-vis the law, as well as citizens' confidence in the state and its rights. Because it is true, in a way, also responding to Mr Korwin-Mikke's point of view, that we are dealing with a claim which is not addressed to the State but to the perpetrator of this damage for compensation, that is, on the basis of compensatory justice, not distribution or resolution justice. We note a number of issues that can undoubtedly be considered in the course of further legislative work, and it would certainly be important to pay attention to increasing the number of cases in courts. In some ways, we're also talking about the following numbers. Unfortunately, there is no complete data to indicate how many people can benefit from compensation, because judicial statistics are talking together about compensations and redress. From the article. 444 in 2019 - about 650 cases, in three quarters of 2020 - just over 400 cases, and with Article. 448 about 8,000, respectively. And about 5,000. cases. Of course, on this basis, it will only be an estimate of how many cases on the basis of this new claim can be found in the courts. We are also, of course, pointing to the issue of retroactivity - not only because of the objective, which is also always important, but also about construction. Talking about a claim that is only being formulated on the basis of this regulation needs to be considered. We're also pointing to art. 446 § 3 of the Civil Code in the field of compensation. It is about considering whether it is also appropriate to introduce the possibility of seeking compensation which would not only be due to death, but precisely to those conditions which are indicated in the proposed submission. We also point out that consideration should be given to determining the nature of the relationship which entitles us to demand this compensation. The point is to make sure there's a clear indication of a positive bond. There is also a question of systemic regulation on how to determine the amount of compensation. Perhaps flat-rate compensation would be a good solution in this case. To conclude, I would like to say that the project is undoubtedly necessary, important and deserves full approval. We recommend continuing the legislative work on the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u336	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed by the President of the Republic of Poland the draft law amending the act - Civil Code, contained in print No.1125, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 58 hours 17 min 05]] I'm reopening the session. We will now proceed with the quorum. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. You're welcome. It's not working. Take it easy. It's working, it's working. The impatient are today. 436 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the President of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals (prints no. 1139 and 1151). [[Applause]] The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Act on Personal Evidence and certain other laws, - amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme and certain other laws, - amending the Act - Energy law and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the law - Penal Code and some other laws. The reports shall be printed in No 1185, No 1174, No 1175 and No 1166 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Law on specific arrangements related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, - amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the law on family support and foster care, - the protection of the rights of the purchaser of the residential or single-family premises and the Developer's Guarantee Fund. The reports shall be printed as appropriate in print No 1182, 1178, 1197 and 1177. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on the Education System and the Law on the Financing of Educational Tasks, - on the amendment of the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. The reports shall be printed in Nos 1204 and 1205 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in discussions on these items on the agenda, he listened to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted a report on the urgent draft government law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain staff employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws, print No 1208. Therefore, on the basis of Article. The 74 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 75th anniversary of the renewal of the news. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1171. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no.1171, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For - 429, 2 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the revival of the news. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, drawn up in Kumamoto on 10 October 2013. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no 1127. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print no. 1127, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 442 - for, no one was against, stopped 4. The Sejm passed the Act on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury in Kumamoto on 10 October 2013. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the law on ownership transformations in the sugar industry. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 1162. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 1162, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 313 - for, 2 - against, with 132 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on ownership transformations in the sugar industry. We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1122-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Bolesław Piecha to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Health Committee, I have the honour to present the report of the Health Committee in print No 1122-A on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws. During the second reading, a motion to reject the law in its entirety was made and an amendment was tabled. The Commission at its meeting today at 3 p.m. 8.30 in a small majority vote adopted a recommendation to reject the law in its entirety. Thus, according to legislation, the amendment also received a negative recommendation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u338	Thank you very much. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1122. The Commission sets out in an additional report a proposal to reject draft laws in full and an amendment on which the Sejm will vote first. I will now put to the vote the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, as put forward in the discussion. The Commission proposes that this proposal be adopted. Its adoption is due to the unobjectability of the remaining proposal. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 212 - for, 226 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the only amendment, the applicant shall propose a different wording of the Article. 9a Act on public-funded healthcare provision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 211 for, 237 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1122, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 227 for, 217 against, 6 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Production and Trading of Explosives, Arms, Ammunition and Military or Police Purpose Products and Technology. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1149-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Wiesław Szczepański to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Board of Administration and Home Affairs on a draft law amending the Act on the Production and Trading of Explosives, Arms, Ammunition and Military or Police Purpose Products and Technology. During the second reading, eight amendments were tabled to this law. The Commission considered the amendments tabled yesterday and recommends rejecting amendment 1 to 4 and adopting amendment 5 to 8. At the same time, the committee recommends that amendments 2 and 4 be voted together. And it recommends that the whole bill be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u340	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1149. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. All amendments were tabled to the Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on the execution of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military and police-purpose products and technology. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 in the following paragraph 1a, the words "alarm and signal weapons' shall be replaced by "acoustic weapons'. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 2 and 4 irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 223 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose a new wording of point 1a added. This amendment is combined with the 4th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 222 - for, against - 229, no one held back. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 1 point 1 in the following point: e applicants propose that the words "cushion of artillery ammunition' replace the words "unfired casings of artillery ammunition'. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 200 for, 221 against, 29 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 1 applicants propose a new wording of point 2a added. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 234 - for, 214 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 61 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 (1) applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. c. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Not yet, because it hasn't shown up yet. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm faster than a machine. So do we. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 265 - for, 188 - against, no one stopped. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th Amendment, applicants propose a new wording of point 6 of the Annex to the Act in the definition section. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? It doesn't show. It shows. 453 Members voted. 238 - for, 215 - against, no one held back. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th Amendment, applicants propose a new wording of point 5 of the Annex to the Act in Section A. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 246 for, 207 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1149, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 437 for, 13 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the execution of business activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1150-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Mieczysław Baszka to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Two amendments were tabled in the second reading. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs examined the amendments on 19 May. The Commission voted against the amendments and voted on the 1st and 2nd amendments in total. On the other hand, the committee has adopted a government bill and recommends that the High House adopt in its entirety a bill amending the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u342	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1150. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant shall propose in point 3 in the following Article. Article 15a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 give a different wording to point 2. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 221 - for, 230 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1150 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 401 for, 3 against, 47 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas. We return to the review of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government bill amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1118-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Beata Arrow to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government bill amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family, prints 1015 and 1148. The Sejm at its meeting on 19 May, in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to consider two amendments tabled at second reading. After considering the amendments at yesterday's meeting, the Commission asks that the High House reject the amendments and therefore adopt the draft law without amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u344	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1148. The Commission also presents minority proposals and amendments on which we will vote first. In minority applications 1, 3, 4 and 5, applicants propose, among other things, that the maintenance fund benefits regardless of the income of the family. We will vote on these minority proposals together. Their adoption will result in the nullity of minority proposals 2 and 6 and amendments 1 and 2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 1, 3, 4 and 5 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 205 - for, 237 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. In the second minority proposal to Article. Point 5 (1) (a) b applicants propose an annual valorisation of the amount of income entitled to receive the benefit from the maintenance fund. This proposal brings together the 6th minority proposal. We will vote on them together. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 1 and 2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 2 and 6 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 213 - for, 232 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. In the first amendment to Article. Point 5 (1) (a) b applicants propose inter alia. the annual valorisation of the amount of income entitled to receive the benefit from the maintenance fund. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 214 - for, 229 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, 2 and 4 applicants propose, inter alia, that the first valorisation of the amount of income entitled to receive the benefit from the maintenance fund be carried out in 2022. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 213 - for, 228 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 1148, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 447 - for, against - 3, 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family. We return to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on a draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1169-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Elizabeth Duda to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u345	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, prints No 1145 and 1145-A. Sejm at its 30th meeting on 19 May 2021 in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 1169 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 19 May 2021, urges the High Sejm to accept the following amendments: Amendments 6, 7 and 14, while rejecting amendments: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, 12 and 13. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u346	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1169. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 to 7 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In the first amendment to Article. 15g applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1 and 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The consequence of the adoption of the 1st amendment will be the corresponding amendments to the draft amending act. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment, with the consequence, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 209 - for, 231 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 15g applicants propose to add paragraph. 21st to 23. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The consequences of the adoption of the 2nd amendment will be the corresponding amendments to the draft amending act. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment, with the consequence, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 213 - for, 229 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose not to give a new wording to point 2 in Article. 15ggb paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 212 - for, 230 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose among others. do not add an article. Fifteen. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The consequence of the adoption of the 4th amendment will be the deletion of the Article. 7 draft amending act. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment, with the consequence, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 211 - for, 230 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose among others. delete paragraph. Article 2 15zs. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The outcome of the adoption of the 5th amendment will be the corresponding amendments to the Article. 15zze. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment, with the consequence, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 211 - for, 228 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, the applicant proposes to add paragraph. Article 20a 15zzd and mouth. Article 19a 15zzd. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 439 - for, 2 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 31zzs. The applicants propose to extend the time limits for granting aid in order to counter the effects of COVID-19. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 318 - for, 1 - against, 134 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose to add to the draft law amending the article. 1a containing amendments to the Act - Association law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 208 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 2 draft amending act. Amendment 11 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 9 and 11 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 222 - for, 226 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose to add to the draft law amending the article. 2a containing amendments to the Government Departments Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 88 for, 231 against, 129 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment, the applicants propose to add to the draft law amending the article. 3a containing an amendment to the Act on Specific Solutions to Support the Implementation of Operational Programmes due to the occurrence of COVID-19. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 211 - for, 230 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment, the applicant shall propose that paragraph be amended. Article 1 6 draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? ...attention that the voting system is not working. Madam, we'll check with you in a moment... Could you please check with Mrs Skowronska? No, not at my place. I've got a voice from a friend. Mrs Wcislo, Mrs Frydrych. Ladies and gentlemen, we will cancel this vote because you say there is bad information, a bad description. There's a description that it's the 12th Amendment, and that's Amendment 13. We will cancel this vote and we will vote again on the same. If there's any indication that there's trouble, I'll wait, of course. It's now which one... Thirteen again. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you'll be fine on your tablets by now, right? Canceled... But there's a bad description. We're voting on the same thing again. Members are intervening. Yes, yes, ours too, sir, so that's okay. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? It's okay. The number's wrong. Don't consider the number of the vote, just the number of the amendment underneath. Amendment 13. - it's all right now. 454 Members voted. 222 - for, 230 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment, applicants propose to add point 4a in Article. 15 draft amending act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 442 for, 5 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.1169, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 438 - for, 3 - against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the urgent draft law amending the Foreign Service Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1184. At the same time, the Commission is presenting minority proposals on which we will vote first. Minority requests from 1 to 10 have been made in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Foreign Service Act. In the first minority application, applicants shall propose that in Article. 2 plus paragraph. 3. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 212 - for, 231 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 2nd minority application, applicants propose to leave the existing wording of the Article. 3 and 4. The adoption of this proposal will result in the nullity of the 3rd minority proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 219 - for, 232 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority application, applicants propose to repeal the Article. 4 and Article 4 80. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 216 - for, 235 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th minority proposal, applicants propose to repeal the Article. 9. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 222 - for, 228 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 5th minority application, applicants shall propose that in Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 add a new wording to point 5. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 219 - for, 232 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th minority application, applicants shall propose that in Article. 11 plus paragraph. 1a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 217 - for, 230 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 7th minority application, applicants shall propose that in Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 repeal point 5. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 220 for, 232 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 8th minority application, applicants shall propose that in Article. 31 give a new wording to paragraph. 3. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 174 - for, 279 - against 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 9th minority application, applicants shall propose that in Article. 39 repeal paragraph. from 4. to 11. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 220 for, 231 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 10th minority application, applicants shall propose that in Article. Do not add your mouth. 5. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 220 for, 231 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 11th minority proposal, applicants propose to give a new wording to the Article. 2 draft amending act. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 220 for, 233 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1184, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 241 - for, 213 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Foreign Service Act. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the law - Law on the Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Public Finance and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 1117. At the same time, the committees present a proposal from the minority, on which we will vote first. In the sole request of a minority, applicants shall propose that in Article. 53a Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office to give new wording §1 and to amend §2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 148 - for, 255 - against, 51 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print no. 1117 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 284 - for, 171 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act - Law on the Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Public Finance and some other laws. We return to the review of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1200-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u347	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! One amendment was tabled today at the second reading of the Act amending the VAT Act. The Public Finance Commission does not recommend the adoption of this amendment after consideration and recommends the adoption of the entire law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u348	Thank you very much. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1200. The Commission also presents in its additional report an amendment on which the Sejm will vote first. In the amendment to the Act on VAT on goods and services, applicants propose in the following article. 22a new wording of paragraph. 8. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 211 - for, 234 - against, 9 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1200 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 435 - for, 7 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on changing the name of the University of Technology and Nature to them. Jan and Jędrzej Śniadecki in Bydgoszcz. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1128. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 1128 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 452 - for, 2 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law on changing the name of the University of Technology and Nature. Jan and Jędrzej Śniadecki in Bydgoszcz. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws (Prints 1154 and 1185). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and certain other laws, print No 1154. The Marshal of the Sejm directed on 17 May this year. a resolution of the Senate on the above matter to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 19 May this year. asks the High Sejm to reject the Senate amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u350	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the only amendment to the article. 7 Act on Personal Evidence The Senate proposes to add paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 233 - for, 218 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws (Prints No 1152 and 1182). I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Zieliński to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and Regional Policy on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, print No 1152. The joint committees at their meeting on 18 May considered four amendments to the Senate and asked the Sejm to reject all amendments. At the same time, committees propose that Amendment 1 be voted in conjunction with Amendments 3 and 4. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u352	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes to delete the article. 2 and 5 of the amending act. Amendments 1 and 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 3 and 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 386 - for, 66 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 15zof the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 233 - for, 220 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the Emissions Trading Scheme and certain other laws (Prints No 1155 and 1174). I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets considered the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Emissions Trading Scheme and other laws. The Senate has tabled five amendments to print No 1155. The Commission recommends that the High House reject all amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u354	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. All amendments were tabled by the Senate to the Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme law. In Amendment 1. to Article. Point 2 (3) (a), (b), (c), (c), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Marshal, who's against it? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 233 - for, against - 219, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 2. to Article. 49 The Senate proposes a different wording of the added paragraph. 2d. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 230 - for, 221 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 3, the following article is added: 50g The Senate proposes that paragraph be deleted. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 232 - for, 219 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 4, the following article is added: Article 64a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) This amendment is combined with the 5th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th and 5th amendments will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 232-- for, 221-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. At this end, we have concluded the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Emissions Trading Scheme and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and on certain other laws (prints Nos 1157 and 1178). I ask Mr Mariusz Trepka to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and some other laws, print No 1157. The Committee on Infrastructure, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 19 May 2021, requests the High Sejm to reject the Senate resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u356	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the law on amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and certain other laws. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the law on amending the toll motorways law and on the National Road Fund and certain other laws would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 232 - for, 220 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act - Energy Law and some other laws (prints Nos 1156 and 1175). I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u357	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets considered the Law on the Amendment of the Act - Energy Law. The Senate has proposed 23 amendments. The Commission has grouped the amendments into two blocks. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt all the Senate amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u358	We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 12. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending law containing amendments to the Act - Energy Law. In the first amendment to Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6e first sentence of the Senate proposes that the recipient be provided with a copy of the current set of energy consumer rights. We will consider this amendment, including amendments 2 to 11, from 13. 20th and 22nd. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 5 for, against - 447, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 12th amendment to the article. 62e paragraph. 1 The Senate proposes that the information referred to in that provision be communicated by 31 December 2021. We will consider this amendment together with amendments 21 and 23. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 12, 21 and 23 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 5 for, against - 447, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act - Energy Law and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Family Support and the System of Replacement Care (Prints Nos 1153 and 1197). I ask Mr Grzegorz Matusiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At today's meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, the Senate's resolution to reject the Family Support Act and the foster care system was rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u360	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 15 April 2021 amending the Law on Family Support and Replacement Care. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 15 April 2021 amending the Law on Family Support and foster care, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 231 - for, 222 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the amendment of the law on supporting the family and the system of foster care. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Penal Code and some other laws (Prints 1160 and 1166). I ask Mr Krzysztof July to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u361	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo I am pleased on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights to present my position on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law - Penal Code and some other laws. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering this resolution, states that the Senate has introduced three amendments to the said law. The Commission has given them a negative opinion and asks the High Sejm to reject them. I would like to remind the High Sejm that the amendment of the law - Penal Code is related to the final implementation of EU anti-terrorist laws in the Polish legal order. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u362	Thank you very much. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 2 laws. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 230 for, 218 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 2, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 230 - for, 210 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes to delete the article. 4, Article 6 and Article 6 7th Bill. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 232 - for, 218 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law - Penal Code and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the Protection of the Rights of the Buyer of Housing or Single Family House and the Developer of the Guarantee Fund (Prints Nos 1158 and 1177). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u363	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 16 amendments were adopted by the Senate to the Act on the Protection of the Rights of the Buyer of a Apartment or a Family House and the Developer of the Guarantee Fund from Print No 1158. They were addressed to the Committee on Infrastructure, which considered them on 19 May. After considering the amendments, the Committee on Infrastructure recommends to the High House that amendments 1 and 6 be adopted jointly, amendments 5 and 8, amendments 12 and 14 are adopted together and amendment 13. All these amendments are editorial and legislative. On the other hand, as regards amendments 2, 3 and 4, the committee recommends that the High House reject them. In particular, Amendment 2 raises suspicion of non-constitutionality as it results in the same entities being treated differently under the same conditions. Buyers who will pay funds for open residential trust accounts will be treated differently from buyers using closed residential trust accounts. So it simply raises the obvious suspicion of unconstitutionality. Thank you, Member. Amendments 2, 3 and 4 should be rejected. Amendments 7 and 9. The total vote must also be rejected. Amendments 10 and 11 must be rejected. Amendments 15 and 16 must also be rejected. voting jointly. All amendments, for which the committee recommends rejection, reduce the level of protection of buyers of premises. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u364	Thank you very much, Member. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 5 point 5 of the Senate proposes inter alia. add lithium. c. Amendment 6 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 6, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. For - 3, 449 - against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the second amendment to the article. 16 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 16. 2 and paragraph 2. 4. The Commission refers to the rejection of this amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 294 - for, 158 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 17 The Senate proposes to delete point (a). f in point 1 (1). 4 and amendments to paragraph 1. 5, paragraph 5. 6 and paragraph 6. 7 point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 285 - for, 164 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 4 (1) of the Senate proposes an amendment to point 1. g. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 274 - for, against - 173, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 17 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 9. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. Ten for, 440 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 7th amendment to the article. 40 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 8. Amendment 9 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 7 and 9 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 280 - for, 162 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 8th amendment to the article. 40 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 19. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 11 for, against -435, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 10th amendment to the article. 48 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? What are you laughing at? I'm smiling, Member. Oh, me too. 448 Members voted. 278 - for, against - 170, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. Oh, the smile's over. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] In the 11th amendment to the article. 48 (1) (a) 7 The Senate proposes amendments to points 1 and 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Thank you. Thank you. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] 450 Members voted. 221 - for, 229 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 57 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 1 and the deletion of paragraph 1. 2. Amendment 14 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 12 and 14 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 4 for, 443 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 13th amendment to the article. 59 The Senate proposes that paragraph be deleted. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 1 for, 447 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 15th Amendment, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 66. Amendment 16 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 15 and 16 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 232 - for, against - 176, 45 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. At this end we have concluded the Senate resolution on the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Buyer of the Apartment or Single Family House and the Developer's Guarantee Fund. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the election of a supplementary judge-member of the National Judicial Council (prints 1124 and 1168). On the basis of the article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and art. 11e paragraph. 1 and 2 of the Act on the National Judicial Council, as well as Article. 29a of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice nominated Ms Catherine Ewelina Cloudy as Judge-Member of the National Court Council. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has appointed a candidate as Judge-Member of the National Judicial Council. I would ask Mr Krzysztof July to speak in order to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u365	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the list of candidates for the National Judicial Council. Your marshal, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the Act on the National Judicial Council, presented to the committee a document on the selection of a candidate for a judge as a member of the National Judicial Council designated by the Parliamentary Club in print No 1124. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, pursuant to the Act on the National Judicial Council, established a list of candidates at its meeting on 18 May 2021. This list contains one item, one name. The candidate for the National Judicial Council is Judge Katarzyna Ewelina Cloud. On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I ask for the approval of this list, so an indication of your choice as judge Catherine Ewelina Cloud. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u366	Thank you. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Civic Coalition, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, PiS politicians will elect a judge member of the National Judicial Council. We're not gonna put our hands on this as a club. This is completely incompatible with the Polish constitution. Art. 187 makes it clear that the Sejm has the right to elect four members of the National Judicial Council, four and not one more. High Izbo! Everyone in this courtroom knows that the election of judges to the National Judicial Council is inconsistent with the constitution. Members know that, as well as candidates, but all lawyers in Poland know that. Take a look at 10,000. judges in Poland to an institution once respected, respected, once protected by the independence of the Polish justice system are now only three people. These are two unknown ladies and a man whom the media wrote about, that he was to be referred to as a herst in a group to stand behind a hate campaign. And even they are supported mostly only by judges who have received something from this authority. Their letters of support were signed mostly by judges who owe something to this authority, whether it's a promotion or a position of president or something else. High Izbo! What's worse is that the current power, standing over the legal divide, instead of taking a step backwards, is taking a step forward. You know that by choosing members of the National Judicial Council in the Sejm, you are violating the rule of law. You know there are billions of zlotys at stake from the EU budget, from the aid funds. But you do it after all, harming yourself, harming Poles and Poles, and all this, just to satisfy some crazy visions of Ziobra for six years destroying the independence of the justice system. Think about what you're doing. Come to your senses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u368	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that speaking on this issue is the most difficult thing for me. As a lawyer, but also a citizen, I have a sense of participation in some horrible procedure in the world, in which, as if nothing had ever been done, the ruling party puts a candidate to the National Council of Judicial Affairs, which, in the light of the Constitution, the Supreme Court's resolutions, the case law of international courts does not meet the basic criterion, i.e. the criterion of independence, and the criterion of acting on the basis of sound law. I have a feeling of extreme embarrassment, and it is my feeling of extreme embarrassment that not only members and members of the Left Club share, but also hundreds of thousands of citizens and citizens who have been engaged for years in defending independent judges and the independence of courts. Today, the ruling party, obscuring itself with illegal regulations, pretends that the candidate for the KRS is a representative of the judicial community. In fact, contrary to the constitutional requirement, she is a candidate for legislative power. 2017 - The Sejm is carrying out the biggest assassination attempt on judicial independence, which is the expiry of the term of office of the judges of the National Courts of Justice. 2020, January - an unprecedented resolution of the joint chambers of the Supreme Court, civil, criminal, labour and social security, which stated what? That the judges in the KRS aren't legitimized. Similarly, the TSUE and ETPCZ. What else do we need to say that we are dealing with the farce of democracy? High Izbo! The left will not participate in this farce, because supposedly-choice for a pretend-KRS would be treachery of the citizens. We're not gonna go into a lying scenario and we're not gonna go over this vote by pretending to complement the composition of a constitutional body. The KRS is producing poisoned fruit. He nominates judges who then issue judgments that can be overturned because of the fact that they were handed down by the judges. The Left will not put his hand into deepening the legal chaos in our country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we don't even want to talk about whether the candidate is qualified to sit in the National Courts or not, because the same debate makes this illegal institution legal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u370	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u371	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Law and Justice, as part of a multi-annual process already devastated the Polish justice system, has transformed a respectable constitutional body, both within the country and in the international arena, which was the National Court Council, into the habitat of primitive Internet haters, who focus on it - until recently it was still loud - on how much money was drawn for the so-called. diets, even for reading literature, it seems, in reading rooms or libraries. I mean shame, the worst kind of profanity, the worst kind of greed. That's the National Judicial Council today. But for Polish citizens, the most important thing is that they already know, after the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, quite recently issued, that judges who judge such in courts after the establishment of the National Council of Courts... that such judgments may be challenged. They can be effectively challenged not by the bodies of the European Union, but by the European Court of Human Rights, an organisation which upholds the rule of law of the Member States, is based in Strasbourg and has not much in common with the European Union. It's worth reminding you of that. Therefore, by sharing the views of opposition clubs expressed here earlier... It's all bullshit. ...the Polish Coalition Club will, however, participate in this vote by voting against this nomination, of course. Because we believe that neither 2/3 in the first vote nor 50% plus one vote in the second vote, this candidacy will not be obtained. Regardless of her qualifications, only because it is (the bell) a further part of the devastation of the Polish justice system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u372	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It is a pity that the rapporteur did not say more precisely how the Justice Committee met. In this regard, it is appropriate to remain silent, to remove the cards and to leave the plenary room. Supporting any candidates for such a flawed and so malfunctioning neo-KRS would support the work of an institution that works against its constitutional mission and contributes to the deepening of legal chaos in Poland. It contributes to the deepening of chaos, but also weakens the standard of human rights for a fair and public hearing without undue delay by a competent, independent, impartial and independent court, as we have already said at the Justice Committee's meeting, Article. 45 constitutions. Therefore, the Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will not take part in this vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u374	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the vote. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] According to... Here you go, Mr Marek Ast, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to draw attention to one thing. You're saying absolutely nothing about it. The subject matter at the moment will be the selection of a supplemental judge to the National Judicial Council. Illegal. On the basis of the Act on the National Judicial Council, which makes use of the presumption of constitutionality. The state has never sued this bill... Because there's nothing to complain about. ...and the tribunal has already commented on the compatibility of the action with the Constitution of the National Judicial Council. Free courts! Free courts! Don't disturb me. In this situation, of course, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote for the candidacy of Mrs Catherine Clouds. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo! Constitution! Constitution!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u376	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the vote. According to Art. 11d paragraph. The 5th Act on the National Judicial Council of the Sejm elects judges of the members of the National Judicial Council by a majority of 3/5 votes in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members, voting on the list of candidates established by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. In the event of failure to select the members of the Board in the abovementioned Sejm mode, in accordance with Article. 11d paragraph. 6 of the Act on the National Judicial Council, elects the members of the Council by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members, voting again on the same list of candidates as established by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Catherine Ewelina Clouds as judge - a member of the National Judicial Council, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 272 Members voted. Most 3/5 votes, 164. For - 229, against - 32, with 11. By a majority of 3/5 votes, the Sejm elected Ms Catherine Ewelina Cloud as Judge-Member of the National Judicial Council. [[Applause]] I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 minutes 16 hours 20 min 21]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 33. of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending the law - Code of Administrative Procedure (Print No. 1090). I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u377	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Legislative Commission, a draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure, contained in Seym Printing No. 1090. The proposed law aims to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 12 May 2015 declaring the non-compliance of the Article. 156 § 2th Act - Code of Administrative Procedure with Constitution. The Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European Union has been published in the Official Journal of the European Union. U. of 21 May 2015 poz. 702. The Constitutional Tribunal held that Article. 156 § 2 c.p.a. in so far as it does not exclude the admissibility of annulment of a decision taken in breach of the law where a significant lapse of time has occurred since the decision was taken and the decision was the basis for the acquisition of a right or an exhibition is incompatible with Article. 2 constitutions. In its judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal recalled that the possibility of annulment of the decision is an exception to the principle of respect for the sustainability of the final administrative decision. At the same time, he argued that the absence of an exclusion of the admissibility of annulment of an administrative decision for the reason set out in Article. 156 § Point 1 (2) (a) is replaced by the following: after a significant period of time, it results in a destabilisation of the legal order if the decision is granted to the party to acquire the right which it intends to exercise. In this context The Court notes that the legislator, specifying the grounds for annulment of the decision and the scope of its application, should take into account all the principles contained in the rule of law clause provided for in Article. 2 of the Constitution and derogations from the principle of the sustainability of the final decision should be without prejudice to the provisions of Article. 2 Constitutional principles of legal security and the protection of individual's confidence in the State and its rights. In its judgment, the Court stated that it was in the interest of public policy to stabilise the facts after a certain period of time. In addition, given the factual background of case P46/13, he stressed that the legal risk of the possibility of learning a different legal line, both in relation to the material and procedural standards underlying the decision, as well as the grounds for gross infringement, is increasing over time. Judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, as regards the so-called. the legislative omissions, and at the same time those with the scope formula, have not led to the posting of the Article. 156 § 2 c.p.a. from the legal order. Therefore, in its judgment, the Court stressed that the declaration of non-constitutionality as regards the omission of legislation requires the legislator to extend the rule of law. 156 § 2 c.p.a., which provides for restrictions on the possibility of annulment of an administrative decision issued with a gross violation of the law, when a significant lapse of time has occurred since the decision was taken and the decision was the basis for the acquisition of a right or an expetition. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Legislative Commission, I propose that any defects qualifying as gross infringements should be subject to a 30-year limitation period. This is a period which is correlated with the date provided for in the Civil Code for the sitting of immovable property in bad faith and indicated in the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court of 28 April 2017. This deadline was indicated by the NSA in recognition of the cassation action against the judgment of the Provincial Administrative Court in Warsaw of April 2015. In assessing the cassation allegations in the present case, it concluded that in the NSA's view, the period after which the annulment of the decision on grounds of gross infringement would have been inadmissible should have been significantly longer than for other reasons. Let me remind you that, as a rule, it's 10 years. The NSA referred to the provisions of the Civil Code on sitting. From the article. 172 § 2 c.c. 30 years later, it appears that the owner of the property acquires ownership of the property, even if he has acquired possession in bad faith. And that's why we proposed this 30-year period in our project. In the transitional provisions, we propose that the provisions in the wording of this Act be applied before the date of entry into force of this Act for proceedings for annulment of decisions initiated and not completed. In the project we also proposed a 14-day period of vacathio legis. In our view, this is sufficient time to enable law enforcement authorities and addressees to familiarise themselves with the changes made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u378	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Barbara Bartus on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u379	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the view of the Constitutional Court, the legislator has an obligation to shape legislation which will facilitate the extinction over time of uncertainty. It is therefore necessary to lay down appropriate limits for the admissibility of the annulment of the decision. The sustainability of decisions by public authorities cannot be apparent. Such an appearance would not only exist if the legislator did not provide for restrictions on the movingness of final decisions, but also if those restrictions were not sufficient to preserve the principle of citizen's confidence in the State and the principle of legal certainty. On the one hand, the legislator cannot declare the sustainability of the decision because of its last resort and on the other hand provides for an unlimited period of time for the possibility of moving the decision on the basis of which the party acquired the law or the expetition. In particular, this is the case in the event of an open and inconspicuous plea of gross infringement. We in the explanatory memorandum, in the committee, referred to the judgment of the administrative court indicating a 30-year period which would be appropriate for the adoption of the inability to annul such decisions. But I also wanted to draw attention to the sentence much later, because of 15 June 2020. There, the Supreme Administrative Court held that the possibility of annulment of a decision taken in gross violation of the law by which the acquisition of the right or the expetition of the acquisition of rights was acquired is limited by a time limit of 10 years, calculated from the date of service or publication of the decision. Taking into account the principle of primacy of the Constitution, Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and also the principles of the democratic rule of law, Article. 2 constitutions, and legalism, art. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, it should be stressed that the operation of public authorities on the basis and within the limits of the law means primarily acting in accordance with the Constitution and, in the event of doubts as to its compatibility, taking into account the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal. Consequently, the Supreme Administrative Court, in that judgment, in the composition of the action for the ruling of the WSA, took the view that the possibility of annulment of a decision taken in gross violation of the law by which the right to acquire or explore the acquisition of rights was acquired is limited by a period of 10 years, calculated from the date of service or publication of the decision. And there are more such judgments of the Supreme Court. Opinions were also received for this project, among others. The Attorney General, which indicates that this 30-year term is too long. There are other doubts. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to stress that, in principle, we support the draft, the direction of the amendments proposed by the Legislative Commission and request that this draft be submitted to the Committee for further work on the revision of the codifications in order to develop, prepare further and consequently adopt. I would like to stress here that the Legislative Commission in its draft was really just executing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. In my opinion, when amending the Code of Administrative Procedure, we should look more closely at the entire provision of the article. 156 § 2. This provision is not only about gross violation of the law, Art. 156 § Point 1 (2) deals with decisions taken without a legal basis or with a flagrant violation of the law and therefore, in my opinion, this project still needs to be transposed. That is why, as I said at the outset, we are in favour of directing this project to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u380	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Zwiefka, Civic Coalition. There's no MP... Ah, you're an MP. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u381	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am very pleased that a proposal has been submitted by the Legislative Commission on such an important issue as the recognition and consistent implementation of the legislative ruling of the Constitutional Court of 2015 on a case which is important for many individual citizens, but also for economic operators operating in our country. This is the third approach, the third attempt to address this issue. The first took place in 2016, when the Polish Senate Legislative Commission took up work on this particular issue, but unfortunately they did not succeed. Later, there was an attempt at a general approach to the reform of the Code of Administrative Procedure - also failed. And this time - I hope that according to the old Polish saying: up to three times the play - for the third time this time the Sejm is working to fulfill the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. The ruling, which does not really change anything in the existing legal order, points to the gap in it, here we are talking about the article. 156 Code of Administrative Procedure. In principle, I can fully agree with the justification which has been submitted by the Legislative Commission. On the other hand, with the conclusions that have been drawn on this issue - not necessarily. It seems that the proposed deadline for the possible closure of issues relating to the issuing of an infringement of the law of an administrative decision, a 30-year deadline, is too long. The judgments cited by the Supreme Administrative Court are, of course, relevant. However, I lack the opinion of this court. I do not know whether we have asked for such an opinion or should we do so in the near future, continuing to work on this project. My conversations with practices, as well as with local authorities, and administrative decisions are issued there, show that this 30-year term seems too long for many reasons. The reasons for its adoption regarding the misbelief of real estate cannot be accepted as appropriate, since only a 10-year limitation period is in force in the same case, i.e. the sitting of real estate, but on the basis of a faulty or incorrect administrative decision. Therefore, bearing in mind that legal certainty is necessary for individual citizens, legal certainty, the certainty of the functioning of economic operators, but also the internal consistency of the existing rules, I would tend to shorten this deadline, possibly to 10 years, as in some cases enumeratively calculated in § 1 Article. 156, maybe a little longer term. But to find the right solution, further work is needed. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that I do not fully agree with the proposal that the cases that are already under way but have not ended with the final decision should be settled after the entry into force of this law on the basis of these new provisions. It seems to me that it is inappropriate to start a legal procedure in one legal order and end it in another order. I would therefore suggest that we refer these new provisions to matters which will start after the entry into force of the law or which have not been started before its entry into force. And the third question about vacathio legis. Mrs Bartus said that this short period of several weeks was sufficient. However, in order to properly prepare for the application of this new provision, it would seem that a period of several months (the bell) would be better, at least three months, so that everyone would actually get acquainted with this new law. This would also allow interested parties, if any, to start a case... Thank you, sir. I'm almost done, Marshal. Excuse me. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I would like to ask the Civic Coalition to transfer this project to an extraordinary codification committee in order to continue its work on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u382	Thank you. Now Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u383	High Izbo! Reprivatisation has been the source of the tragedy of thousands of citizens for years. It hinders the lives of tenants, owners and real estate buyers, ruins the budgets of local governments and breaks the lives of ordinary people. Over the last quarter of a century, an ocean of words has been spoken in this room, but nothing has been done. Art. 156 The Code of Administrative Procedure is the source of the tragedy of the victims of reprivatization, but also of the pain of all citizens who cannot fully trust the decisions they face. The reversal of administrative decisions several decades after their adoption, which is the essence of reprivatisation, upsets society because it affects the fundamental sense of justice and the rule of law. On the one hand, there is the principle of legalism, which requires correction of decisions taken with a significant violation of the law. On the other hand, there are decisions from 60 years ago, which today are considered defective, but thanks to which the capital was raised from the rubble, hundreds of schools and public buildings were built, communal and social housing, we have parks where people who play with children have established social and legal order for more than 60 years. In 2015, the Constitutional Tribunal held that the possibility of nullifying administrative decisions taken with a gross violation of the law from which it was issued for many years and the decision was the basis for the acquisition of rights or an expetition, which is now possible by Article. 156 k.p.a. is incompatible with the constitution. The Court thus obliges the legislator to amend this provision. Unfortunately, despite the passing of six years of the PiS government, despite Patrick Jaki's earlier assurances that you will deal with the Warsaw case and not only the Warsaw reprivatization, although you are supposed to value legal order - you have really done nothing. The reprivatization bill as it was, it doesn't exist, the decisions that took place over 60 years ago are still being withdrawn, and people are still losing their roof over their heads. The fact that there are no clear and definitive rules governing how the land taken over by the People's Republic of Poland is returned is mainly affected by tenants, but also by the rest of society. By virtue of the article. 156 k.p.a. schools, cultural houses, public buildings, monuments and parks are reprivatised, bazaars are being liquidated, as recently in the Warsaw Sadybie, local governments are losing public service areas, suddenly plans for schools or health clinics are in ruins. Therefore, we are constantly seeking to adopt a reprivatisation law and to clarify the current rules. Unfortunately, the Left's reprivatization law, which comprehensively and ultimately solves the problem of reprivatisation, which prevents refunds in nature, which determines fair compensation, the law which we have created in agreement with the representatives of the tenants, which we have consulted extensively and which has received the approval of numerous experts, has still not received any attention from the Marshal of the Sejm and has not been put to the vote. But the inaction of the Sejm and the ruling coalition does not stop the drama of people. The residents of municipal and social housing are still worried about whether or not a claim will be made to their homes. Where these claims are, people do not sleep at night, fearing that sentences will eventually fall and will have to leave the homes where they live their whole lives. In Warsaw's city hall stops heating in tenement houses, condemning residents to extremely expensive electric heating, driving them into poverty and disease. The lack of legislation also has a huge impact on the housing market. The blocks that were built in the '60s or '80s are still coming in on land where claims come out of nowhere today. These are flats that are hard to sell and are equally hard to buy, because banks do not give them mortgage loans, and the housing cooperatives to which they belong do not want to invest in their renovation and modernisation. And it's hard for them to be surprised. The left will support this project because it is needed for citizens, especially for the inhabitants of Warsaw, who are still threatened by reprivatization. Currently, C.P.A. provides for a 10-year period for the reversal of faulty decisions. For incomprehensible reasons, however, the Code provides for exceptions without any deadline. Among other things, they are included. decisions pursuant to the so-called the decree of Bierut. The constitutional principle of legal certainty, which is crucial to the stability of the State, its authority and social trust, requires that these rules be harmonised and that for all decisions we adopt the same 10-year period after which they are deemed to be final and irreversible. That is why we will make an appropriate amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u384	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u385	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As experts stress, this is a very important change for public administration and for citizens interested in expropriation decisions. If the provision proposed in the draft were to apply, the nullity of decisions previously adopted would be excluded. In the light of the legislative omissions that have now been introduced into the Polish Parliament, the legislative initiative should be assessed positively. However, we should ask why we had to wait so long for the amendment. After all, five years have passed since the ruling of the Constitutional Court in this case. The adoption of an extremely long 30-year limitation period does not find any compelling grounds. On the contrary, it may be alleged that the internal coherence of the regulation will be affected. 156 c.p.a., failure to take account of contemporary socio-economic needs, as well as legislative inconsistencies against the opposite trends of statutory changes observed in material law. The flagship and only argument of designers referring to cases of decisions transferring property rights is not convincing. The question may be raised: why can a decision transferring property rights issued in gross violation of the law be declared invalid for a whole period of 30 years, and the same decision transferring property rights, but issued by the authority of course inappropriate in the case - only for a period of 10 years? Is it true that the difference in the category of a legal defect in a decision can justify such a far-reaching diversity in the protection of the acquired rights of the addressees of an administrative decision? It seems that the argument of analogy to sitting on real estate here is not appropriate. It could at most provide a basis for introducing a specific limitation period for decisions transferring property ownership for any reason of nullity and not for varying the limitation period of the decision depending on its legal defect. Specific cases of invalidity are so varied that the attempt to gratify these defects in general from the most serious to the least serious is risky, and it certainly should not be based on intuition not supported by any concrete arguments. In view of the arguments put forward, the draft amendment submitted in the Seym seems to require further reflection. The amendment of the Article appears to have been amended. The Code of Administrative Procedure should rather aim at equal treatment of the limitation of annulment of a decision in respect of each of the defects referred to in Article. 156 § 1 c.p.a. Possible derogations from this rule should relate to the different categories of decisions, e.g. referred to in the justification for the draft decisions transferring property ownership. Nevertheless, despite these doubts, as a club of Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, we believe that the High House should work on this project, further improving it and clarifying doubts, so that it can be achieved, to develop a project in a way that also allows our club to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u386	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u387	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We have been waiting for this law since 2016, since the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. In the meantime, a committee for reprivatization of Warsaw was established, which buried several decades of proceedings in further legal problems. I would like to draw attention to the fact that most of the reprivatisation decisions could only be touched on the basis of the existing conditions of K.p.a., i.e. e.g. the adoption of reprivatisation decisions with a gross violation of the law addressed to a non-Party or the adoption of a decision as a result of a criminal offence. Instead, the government has given us the expansion of legislation and bureaucracy, which ultimately will face resistance in the administrative judiciary, which in turn paralyzes the work of the reprivatization committee. The Constitutional Tribunal already indicated on 12 May 2015 that the grounds for an extraordinary appeal against the decision, i.e. in order to annul the decision, it should apply much longer than the 10 years provided for in the Code so far. PiS has been in charge since 2015. If he had good will to solve, among others. matters concerning the reprivatization of Warsaw, but also others, is this project that takes only one side, would have appeared much earlier, because at the beginning of the PiS government. In return, PiS decided on a very expensive election campaign in Warsaw, which still ensured a crushing victory for the candidate of total opposition. Cases concerning property ownership in Warsaw, which are already ongoing since Bierut's decree, have not been resolved and are not expected to be resolved by the reprivatization committee. I hope that the compensation paid to the victims will not be called into question by the subsequent governments of those who wish to put a reprivatisation scandal under the carpet. I appeal from this point of view: do not break the rule of law, look more frequently at judgments of courts and tribunals, which largely solve existing problems. The 30-year limitation period refers to the rules of the Civil Code, i.e. the institution of sitting the property in bad faith, and in this case it is in our opinion the most correct solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u388	Thank you. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u389	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 generally supports the bill presented as implementing an extremely important and valid judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2015. However, we propose two amendments to this draft. In its judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal stated correctly that Article. 156 § 2 c.p.a. in so far as it does not exclude the admissibility of annulment of a decision taken in breach of the law where a significant lapse of time has occurred since the decision was taken and the decision was the basis for the acquisition of a right or an exhibition is incompatible with that resulting from the Article. 2nd Constitution: the principle of citizens' confidence in the state. It should be recalled that the amended Article concerns exceptional cases in which a public administration may annul an already issued final administrative decision remaining in legal circulation. Such decisions are always difficult and can be taken with exceptional care, as elimination from the market of existing decisions always violates the interests of those who, on the basis of these decisions, often in good faith, have taken different actions and have carried out their, often very important, life affairs. The Court ruled in this case, answering the legal question put by the WSA in Warsaw on the basis of the reprivatization case. It was in reprivatization cases that it was very often the case that there was a stir on the basis of the article. Article 156 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 1 (4) (a) is replaced by the following: nationalisation decisions issued decades ago, which often led to revolutionary changes in the lives of many people, not only new beneficiaries of reprivatization, but also e.g. tenants of apartments in municipal buildings. I am therefore pleased that the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2015, although of an interpretative and scope nature, has become the basis for hundreds of decisions by administrative courts which refused to touch subsequent decisions taken decades ago. It is a pity that, only today, six years after the ruling, the Sejm is prosecuting a law that fully standardizes this issue and executes the judgment of the tribunal. However, the project seems to have two fundamental disadvantages. First, the justification for the project is not sufficiently explained why in Article. 1 was accepted very long, because as many as 30 years of age, the deadline for moving decisions issued with a gross violation of the law which were the basis for the acquisition of the right or gave rise to a legitimate expectation of the acquisition of the right. The 30-year period shall be 30 times the 10-year period provided for in Article. 156 § 2 c.p.a., applicable in the event of undermining decisions taken in breach of the jurisdiction provisions concerning cases already decided on by another final decision addressed to a non-Party on whether they contain a defect which results in its nullity by law. The reference in the explanatory memorandum to the time limit for sitting on immovable property in bad faith to the Civil Code should be regarded as incorrect. Firstly, it is a term of civil law, not administrative law, and additionally hundreds of thousands of administrative decisions are issued daily in a very wide range of cases, not only concerning real estate. Poland 2050 therefore proposes that a 10-year period be introduced in this case, the same as in the case of other grounds for annulment of the decision in Article. 156 c.p.a., mentioned earlier. It should be noted that the 30-year term is one of the longest terms known to Polish law. It seems that the introduction of such a long deadline does not fulfil the intention of the TK judgment, which sought to compromise between the principle of legalism and the principle of citizen's confidence in the state. The 30-year deadline clearly continues to be a strong primacy of legalism, since it allows the decision to be touched by a generation earlier. The questioning of such decisions will almost always lead to a deepening of legal chaos and the need to cascade further legal action taken many years ago, often by natural or deceased persons or non-existent legal persons. At the same time, Poland 2050 does not question the possibility of applying new rules to pending proceedings. This possibility is justified by the fact that the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling has been in force for six years, which is implemented by this draft law. The participants in the trading were therefore aware for years (the bell) that the possibility of demanding to move administrative decisions from decades ago is at least legally questionable. We're applying for work on this project in committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u390	Thank you. Are there Members who have asked questions? I don't have a list yet. Now I've got it. The list of Members notified is closed. Here you go, one minute to ask a question. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill provides for a very short period of vacathio legis. The 14-day deadline for the entry into force of the Act may make it difficult for the authorities issuing administrative decisions and the addressees of those decisions to familiarise themselves with the changes and to terminate the ongoing administrative proceedings. Hence my question: Will the possibility of extending this term be considered? It is also doubtful that proceedings for annulment of decisions initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the amendment are pending. New provisions shall apply. Are the authors of the project aware that this may lead to such a situation that ongoing proceedings for annulment of administrative decisions cannot be completed and resolved, even though they have been initiated in accordance with the legal status that has been in force for years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u392	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The introduction of a 30-year period during which the possibility of challenging a bad administrative decision may appear to be appropriate and to guarantee the recovery of its claims within an extended period of time. However, as time passes, there is an increased likelihood of circumstances causing irreversibility of the effects of an administrative decision taken in breach of the law. I have a question for the government whether it is concerned that such a situation may lead to a suspension of the legal system in which an administrative decision should be challenged on the one hand and the effects of that decision cannot be reversed on the other. This leads to inconclusive situations, which we want to eliminate from our legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u394	Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law provides for an amendment to the article. 156 Code of Administrative Procedure by adding a new § 3, according to which a decision which has been taken in breach of the law has not been annulled if 30 years have elapsed since the date of its service or notice and that decision has been the basis for the acquisition of the right or creates a legitimate expectation of the acquisition of the right. This is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2015 and here there is no doubt. However, there are at least three areas of doubt. The first is the long, 30-year period for which, among others. also draws the attention of the President of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. The second point is the application of these provisions to proceedings that are already under way, which means that they are de facto carried out from the beginning. And the third is this 14-day period of vacathio legis, which in fact is probably too short primarily for local governments to be sufficiently prepared. I was very optimistic about the fact that this draft law will be further developed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So there's gonna be committee work. We seem to be able to come up with good solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u396	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u397	Dear Marshal, The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 12 May 2015 was long-standing until it finally saw a corrective project in the form of the introduction of new provisions in the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure. In 2018, the Ombudsman asked the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration of Minister Brudziński about the progress of the work on solving this problem, which the Constitutional Tribunal said. So? It has been considered what judicial decisions are in this law. So what is the decision of the Ministry today on inter-temporal rules, i.e. on pending and pending proceedings? What is your position on the date of entry into force of the Act? Is a 30-year period appropriate? And once again (the bell) you must admit that you do not comply with the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. Five or six years is a long, long time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u398	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Sebastian Kaleta now has the floor of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This is a very important submission, which should soon be in the Polish legal order. This is not only the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, but the next step that we have taken in regulating what the previous authorities have done in the field of reprivatization in Poland: great scandals, harm to thousands of people, unclear legal situation. As soon as we took power, we started working in many areas and today, step by step, we are explaining all the problems that have grown over several years. This bill is another step that will lead to more people not losing their homes, not having to worry about it - not only in Warsaw, but also across the country - that somebody will come to try to take over the property that has long been developed by these inhabitants. The adoption of this law will also result in a lower risk of pathology, which unfortunately we observed in Warsaw, several hundred meters away. Many corruption scandals, one property under the other, people who had to be evicted by people who did not have proper legal titles - today we explain all this, step by step, consistently. Time passes, but our hard work brings fruit. Five years? I am very happy and very grateful to all the parties, all the clubs who have spoken, that they support the direction that is adopted in this project. I hope that this will make it a fruitful, reliable work on the committee. However, I feel obliged to refer to a number of issues concerning and the speed of proposing these provisions, and possible omissions which have led to a situation in which our government, most of us, has been repairing these pathologies, which have unfortunately occurred in many cities in Poland for years. You've said that before, Minister. And the pathology of the envelope elections? The Civic Platform cries for five years that there is no execution of the sentence. If you hadn't paralyzed the work of the verification committee, we'd probably be in a better place than today. I'm just reminding you, it's your responsibility that this whole thing has gone off in the first place. And you have the audacity to lecture... Minister, you're a clerk. ... this parliamentary majority, which took on this, burned these pathologies with hot iron and today consistently blocks the path of the return of all these mechanisms, if - God forbid - the platform returned to power. PSL - also crocodile tears. And what were you doing in the coalition with the Platform when Hanna Gronkiewicz Waltz and her officials came to this big deal? Minister, you're a clerk, you're a clerk. And an envoy. Ad rem, ad rem. Mrs Beyat! I regretted what you said today because, first, the Left you represent for three years, the three hardest years for Warsaw's tenants, when they were thrown out on the street, fought at city council sessions for their dignity, this Left was in a coalition with the Civic Platform. It wasn't me. I understand you may not be personally, but I'm talking about the political group you represent. And you say today that nothing has been done in recent years. Well, it's done. Those responsible for the case are punishable. The residents are not thrown out of their homes. We have previously secured the inability to reprivatise such properties in the UGN Act. The victims' residents have been compensated. And now we're protecting more properties. This is a very important step. Therefore, thank you very much for the fact that, despite everything, even though we have a different assessment of the past, and of the one closer and further, we agree that this law is very much needed. I hope that working on it in committee will be far from pointing out responsibility for each other's present state of affairs... Exactly. ...because the state, I have the impression, just haven't noticed what's been going on in the last few years. In recent years, fortunately, the problems of reprivatisation are slowly disappearing thanks to consistent action and legislative changes adopted by the High House, which is also very important for this process, which I hope will be closed in this process. It's about saving more properties and avoiding more human dramas. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u400	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Bartus, rapporteur. Applicant. Applicant, I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u401	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Firstly, I would like to address all the clubs with thanks for the fact that the clubs supported the direction that we are making these changes at all, that this project could go to the codification committee. On the other hand, I would like to refer to the speech by the Polish Member, 2050, who was very critical of the fact that there is no justification for why 30 years. If the Member who acted on behalf of the club looked at the justification, it is precisely there to refer to the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court of 2017. That's exactly where the quotes from that sentence are. That sentence was the answer to the cassation complaint. The complainant complained because it was a decision that was made 14 years ago. And that's when the Supreme Administrative Court said 14 years wasn't enough. When the right to acquire real estate is acquired, the provisions of the Civil Code, which speak of sitting, should be applied. That is why I refer to this question and to this period, because such questions were most often asked. But the Member is no longer in the Chamber, so you have nothing to refer to. These voices are very valuable. I'm gonna say that by myself, speaking on behalf of the club, I was also talking about judgments that talked about 10 years. Therefore, in the case of this period, whether it is 10, 20, 30, it will be to be converted. I think we'll agree here. Why is vacathio legis 14 days? Because you don't need such a standard vacathio legis of 30 days as we apply in the case of codes, because that's the execution of a judgment. Transitional provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, the judgment of the Constitutional Court is from 2015. Already today, the courts on the basis of this judgment rule that it cannot be repealed. I think that's a good starting point for the committee's work on this project. Once again, thank you to all those who support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u402	Thank you. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure, contained in print No. 1090, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. That concludes the agenda items scheduled for May 20th. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No. I therefore close the list of claims made. May I remind you of It's a three-minute time to make a statement. The first Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The recent anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of May 3 prompted me to remind one of the creators of the Piotrków land - Józef Pawlikowski. He is not mentioned in the textbooks in this context, but he remembers his work with Tadeusz Kościuszka. Józef Pawlikowski was born in 1767 in a small town of Rozbrzą, which lies a few kilometres from Piotrków. Not much is known about his youthful life. He came from a poor nobleman, and his father was a blacksmith. He started his education in a country-famous Piotrovsk school run by drunkards. Later he studied law in Krakow. He started public activity quite early, because already at the age of 20, giving numerous evidence not only of maturity, but also distinguishing him from the then ruling class of socio-legal knowledge he had. He published several brochures anonymously, but few had doubts about their authorship. His texts concerned the socio-political situation in Polish lands. He paid much attention to the issue of abolishing the servitude of peasants. In 1789, he publishes political thoughts for Poland. Together with Kołłętaj, Staszice and Wybicki, he is in the strict circle of creators of the May Day on 3 May 1791. After the collapse of the Constitution, he participates actively in preparation for Kościuszko insurrection. Sent by the Warsaw patriots to Krakow, Tadeusz Kościuszka urged the insurgents to start their activities faster. After the uprising failed, he emigrated to Belgium and later to France. In 1795 he was one of the signatories of the Polish Deputy - an organization that proclaimed equalization of states and demanding personal freedom for the country. Shortly thereafter, he becomes the personal secretary of Kościuszko. Most likely, under the influence of this friendship, he wrote his most famous work called "The Bible. " Can Poles become independent? Once again, he published his work anonymously. The authorship was attributed to Kościuszka in the 19th century. However, during the course of the research it was possible to establish that it was Pawlikowski who presented these bold thesis. First of all, he referred to the lack of consent to the popular view that the regaining independence by Poles requires external intervention, such as allies or other allies. Pawlikowski believed that national rebirth and regaining independence can only take place as a result of internal reforms, patriotic awareness and such education of all social classes. He felt that Poles should rely primarily on their own strength, without looking at strangers. He wrote: A nation demanding independence must have confidence in its strength. If there is no such feeling, if it is not by its own endeavors to maintain its existence, but by foreign support or grace, it can be said that there will be no happiness, no virtue, no fame. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u404	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a statement about the shares of the Grey Privates in Celestine on the night of May 19th to May 20th, 1943. I would like to remind you that exactly 78 years ago, on the night of 19 to 20 May 1943, Grey Private assault groups under the command of the Kedyw of the Home Army at the railway station in Celestyn carried out one of the most spectacular actions, i.e. Reflection of transport of prisoners to Auschwitz camp. Thanks to the action, 49 people were released, two Home Army officers and four Germans were killed. The commander was Mieczysław Kurkowski ps. Mietek, and one of his deputies - Tadeusz Zawadzki ps. Zośka. The action was recorded in memory as bravado and flawless despite many unforeseen situations such as train delay or shooting. Let us remember about Polish Boy Scouts who form the Grey Ranks and soldiers of the National Army. Each of them deserves eternal respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u406	Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Large industrial pigs are being built in many places throughout Poland. Their activity involves pollution of air by hydrogen sulphide and ammonia, as well as contamination of surface water and groundwater with nitrates and nitrites. Waste from these companies is often disposed of in the fields near the plants. Their legal disposal is very expensive. As farmers themselves point out, these wastes have nothing to do with natural fertilisers. Often they include, among others, antibiotics, harmful organisms and present a risk to plants, animals and humans. Another problem associated with the operation of such sites is odor nuisance, which, according to doctors, can cause depression, fatigue, respiratory problems, headaches, vomiting, irritation of the eyes and throat, as well as cardiovascular problems. The expansion of large industrial pigsty also adversely affects tourism and agrotourism. Investors also use loopholes in the law that allow them to divide one investment into several smaller, adjacent investments. In such a situation, there are several less burdensome projects in the documentation, not one more burdensome. Polish consumers value the quality of meat and prefer to buy it from smaller, family and organic farms. Unfortunately, the expansion of large industrial pigsty significantly contributes to the elimination of such farms from the market. The implementation of further such projects without any control will have a dramatic economic impact on farmers operating smaller and green farms. In 2016, a team was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture to counter the expansion of large breeding farms. A year later, in 2017, the Ministry announced that it would seek to reduce this type of investment. Unfortunately, it only ended on the announcements. In 2020, as a Member of the Sejm, I have discussed twice the draft law on minimum distance announced by the government for the planned agricultural sector project, whose functioning may involve the risk of creating odour nuisance. I have called for urgent legislative action to be taken which restricts the implementation of such projects. The government first moved its work to the first quarter of 2020, followed by the fourth quarter of 2021 and the first quarter of 2021. Currently, there is no information on any work on the pages of the Government Legislation Centre. The expansion of large industrial pig farms contributes to the elimination from the market of smaller, family and organic farms. It also poses a threat to the environment, plants, animals and humans. I call on the government to implement its announcements related to the preparation of solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u408	Thank you. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On May 16, we celebrated a very joyful celebration - the 30th anniversary of the Border Guard. Dear Border Guard Officers! Dear civil servants of this formation! From here I would like to thank you very much for your service, for your work for the Republic of Poland, for your service at the borders of our country. Your attitude and your activities are evaluated. In an extremely professional way, you carry out your tasks and duties. You fill them in an exemplary way. In fact, the formation is only under 30 years old, but very often the Border Guard officers refer to and recall the officers of the Border Protection Corps. It is from these traditions that they draw on, these traditions they invoke. I'm very happy for you. Thank you very much for this, for drawing from such beautiful sources, from such beautiful foundations of the officers of the Border Protection Corps. The Border Guard is close to 18,000. persons. That's over $14.5,000. Officers and over 3,000, almost 3.5,000. civil servants. Border Guard is everywhere, because when we look at the structure, the Border Guard is the nine divisions, that's the 69 border crossing points, that's the 96 border guard posts. In fact, the Border Guard is everywhere. It's at sea, it's on land, it's just everywhere, also at airports, because there, too, our citizens cross borders. But the Border Guard is also on foreign missions. Here, too, you defend the borders of the European Union, but you also represent the Republic. I think of foreign missions in a special way: in North Macedonia - we have been there for 5 years, there more than 1,200 Border Guard officers carried out their mission. But it's not just North Macedonia, it's also Slovenia, it's also Italy, it's also Greece, it's also Hungary. The last time, the pandemic time, is also your incredible support for the pandemic when it comes to carrying out the Coronavirus tests, all this activity at the borders. Dear Officers! Dear civil servants! Thank you very much again. Congratulations on such a beautiful attitude. Congratulations on your exemplary performance. Congratulations on that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That you are so professionally protecting the borders of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u410	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Zieliński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year it is exactly 400 years since Tomasz Zamoyski, second chief of staff, Kiev Voivode, later chancellor of the great crown privilege of localization of the municipality of Tomaszów. This took place on 25 May 1621. The beginnings of the uprising of the city of Tomaszów date back to the first years of the 17th century. Jan Zamoyski, father of Tomasz, decided to create it. On the territory of the village of Rogóźno decided to establish a city lying on a trail connecting Warsaw with Lviv called Jelitov. After the death of Jan Zamoyski, this work continued with the widow of the captain and Chancellor Barbara Zamoyska from Tarnowski. We have information from 1609 on the progress of construction work, the planning of the area, the construction of the market, streets and settlement of the village. It should be noted that the author of the spatial layout of Jelitov was probably the outstanding architect Bernardo Morando, the creator of the Zamość concept of construction. In 1612, when Tomasz Zamoyski reached his age, the name Jelitov was changed to Tomaszów. It was a reference to the name of the young chief and to St. Tomasz the Apostle, patron of the Zamoyski family. In 1613. Tomasz gives the municipality the coat of arms with the image of St. Tomasz with a spear in his hands and a coat of arms with an intestine's coat of arms at his feet. In the following years, the location process was completed, which was mainly handled by Maciej Leśniowski, podkomorzy and then by the Belski chestellan. It appears in the location document by Tomasz Zamoyski as a witness. On May 25, 1621, in Zamość Tomasz Zamoyski made the location of the city of Tomaszów on Magdeburg law. The location document sets out the burgher's obligations towards the owner, city authorities and the parish. The owner of the city has also determined the period of release of the townspeople from all the burdens they bear for 15 years in order to ensure its proper development. Using the stay of King Zygmunt III Vasa, who set out to serve the troops defending Chocim, in the camp near Tomaszów, Zamoyski asked with the city delegation the monarch to confirm the privilege granted to the city. On 7 October 1621, King Zygmunt not only approved all Zamoyski's records, but also gave the city, which was very beneficial for the development of trade, the right to store salt from the Russki Jupiter. For the first few decades, the city, using its location, developed very well. Around 1630 the number of its inhabitants was over 4 thousand, while the centre itself was the third largest city in the Bełza and Busk Voivodeship. On the 400th anniversary of granting city rights to the city of Tomasz, we should pay tribute and thank all those who contributed to its creation and rapid development. I would also like to thank all historians and regionalists, led by Prof. Dr. Hab. Richard Szczygł, who, through a number of publications, contributed to the dissemination of the history of the city of Tomaszów. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u412	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Skwarek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 16 May this year. there was a solemn giving of the patronage of St. John Paul II of Dęblin, the capital of Polish wings. This took place during the Holy Mass celebrated in the Church of St. Pius led by his Excellency Fr. bp. Kazimierz Gurda in the concelebrity of priests of the parish priests of Oęklin. St. John Paul II, and the city was given the patronage of the holy pope Pole. Already in 2018, the Oęklin branch of the association Civitas Christiana, wishing to celebrate the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, took the initiative under the name: St. John Paul II is the patron and advocate of the city of Dęblin. A lot of people's signatures have been collected. The committee of the resolution initiative introduced a draft resolution to the deliberations of the City Council. It was unanimously adopted on 28 March 2019. There was a series of events that resulted in the Congregation's release of dr. The cult of God and the Discipline of the Sacrament in the Vatican decree giving patronage. As part of the preparation for the ceremony, the local government in cooperation with parishes, associations, cultural institutions, units of the Polish Army organized a series of events bringing the people closer to the figure of St. John Paul II. Under the patronage of the Air Force Museum, a popular and scientific conference was held: Air Testimonies of St. John Paul II to his homeland. Dear Citizens! Giving the city of Dęblin, the capital of Polish wings, under the patronage and intercession of St. John Paul II, you are in an elite group of eight local governments in Poland. Thank you for inviting me to the ceremony. I'm glad to be able to participate in them personally. I congratulate the initiative and hope that it will contribute to building a city with strong communities, both small ones, families and associations, as well as larger ones such as parishes, workplaces and military units. May you have a communion of self-government and a figure of St. John Paul II. Develop your wings under a white-red chessboard for your own well-being, city and country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u414	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u415	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, there was a protest by emergency phone operators. This is a professional group whose work is important, you can say, the nerve of the emergency notification system. These are the people picking up 911. The quality of their work, their smartness and their experience depends on their proper response to the reported accident or other dangerous situation. This professional group is few, but very important. It is easy for the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration to avoid or only fake a dialogue without taking into account in any way the comments made by this group precisely because of its size. They have been manifesting recently in Warsaw, but because of their sense of duty and understanding the importance of their work they do not think in terms of strike. The government's not only not listening to them, it's just skipping them. During the struggle with the COVID-19 emergency notification system, 112 was additionally loaded, operators had much more work. The government co-financed doctors, gave non-medical personnel one-off bonuses of 5,000. zł, which will be paid in June, as announced by Prime Minister Morawiecki. The operators of emergency numbers ask what is worse, that they have been ignored, since they are also burdened with this situation. I appeal from this place to Prime Minister Morawiecki not to differentiate and include 112 operators in these additions. In the environment, there is a legitimate concern that the change in wages, their dissection, depending on the position that the recent amendment to this professional group will be minimal and not incentivising the willingness to remain in this profession. Moreover, increasing the minimum wage from next year will bring it closer to the current level of remuneration of 112 operators, because this remuneration is so low. Is this the direction in which the Polish state should go? Large rotations in these positions, like a large number of vacancies, are extremely negative phenomena affecting the quality of work of 112 operators. We need a professional job on this important section of state security. For our national community, it will be much cheaper to pay these operators properly than to bear the costs resulting from disasters and tragedies increased by the unprofessional operation of emergency number operators. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u416	Thank you. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u417	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Security Committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If Vladimir Majakowski lived in Poland today, he would probably write like this: I want it to shine again. The most dignified of words - the party. Unit! What's she gonna do?! Unit - zero, unit - nonsense, alone - won't protect us from rainbows, He will not build a bounty, even though it is a great figure, Let us free the people from the chains of the Union! The party - it's the shoulders of millions of people Close to each other at the Mass of the Compassionate - lift national buildings with flat roofs, I'm gonna drop a white and red flag in the sky, If we tighten the muscles and breathe in the party, we will rip out the insubordinate courts. The party - it's the Sovereign's patrimony pile. The Party is the immortality of the Holy Church. The party is national media, which won't betray me. The party - they're oil, coal and steel companies. Today I am a subject, and tomorrow - a rich man without borders. Polish brain, Polish matter, Polish strength, Polish pride - That's what a party is. Party and President - twin brothers - Who does the mother-history value more? We say - President, we think - party, We say - party, we think - Lenin. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u418	I'm unlucky to have to listen to this at night. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. There won't be any graphomania, I hope.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u419	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think that all of you, including the Prime Minister and the President, joined on 12 May, on International Nurses and Obstetrics Day. They all wished for nurses and midwives to enjoy their work because they knew that their work was for us. But on 12 May it passed as soon as Minister Radziwiłł and Minister Szumowski passed in his position and as you will probably pass Minister Niedzielski. They all promised. They promised workers, above all, good working conditions and wages. You remember, among others. protest of residents in 2018 Then Minister Szumowski asked the doctors out that their salary would be 1.6 of the average national wage. So? Tomorrow and soon I'll check it out. Nurses and midwives have been reporting and coming to the Prime Minister's office for many years. They were in December Ub. R., January this year. So? And all they got was wishes for their holiday. Today we received a bill amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary. There are nurses, midwives, diagnes, paramedics, rehabilitation workers and all who work in health care for this, for a good project. And they're all upset. You have prepared such a project that everyone is dissatisfied. The Minister of Health did not reply to 16 letters from the Forum of Trade Unions of Nurses and Obstetrics. And you are announcing to the state that there will be money in the recovery plan for nurses, midwives and others. They're just waiting, but it's embarrassing that they really have to wait for the crumbs from your table. After all, you've given the CEO of both of you everything. Everything. It's a shame. And nurses and midwives humiliate. Because what you're giving, what you're giving to doctors, what they've won... We won't do without them, but we won't do it without both of them. That's what the rulers should remember. Thank you very much. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u420	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u421	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Concerned about the actions of the Grunwald commune as a Member of Warmia and Mazur and Powiśla, I must speak today. 30 November 2020 Adam Szczepakowski, the commune of Grunwald, submitted a proposal to the Warmia-Mazury Voivodeship for the resolution of the Grunwald Municipality Council. A similar letter was sent to the Prime Minister, the President of the Council of Ministers, the Deputy Prime Minister, the most important people in the country. The uncle points out that there is no cooperation between the council and himself. If it were a substantive dispute, I would leave the matter to the institutions and letters of law. However, I must protest at this point, because in circulating copies of the letter, the governor throws unsubstantiated charges, talks to the councillors and councillors and reveals the sensitive details of their family members. I would like to express my firm opposition to such practices. Especially when they are homophobic, they are an attempt to discriminate and brand. There is no place in public space for discrimination, blackmail, disclosure of private information from the lives of public people, especially their families. I would also like to inform you that I have notified the prosecution of the possibility of a criminal offence by my uncle and will support the victims. I will always stand on the side of the victims, the discriminated against and the harassed. We must oppose violence, and this must be seen as the situation described. You'll never go alone! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u422	Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I take the floor on a very important issue for the affected and weakened by the pandemic of the tourism and catering industry. Every day I meet with many entrepreneurs in these industries. Of course, because of my address of residence, they are primarily entrepreneurs from the sea. Everyone's like one husband. they point out that the duration of the tourist voucher has been set in a way that harms the tourism industry operating by the sea, in Warmia and Mazury, in the Drawski and Kashubian Lake District. The fact that the limit date for its use is March 30, 2022, causes that tourists who do not use the voucher this year will only be able to use it for their winter vacation, which was difficult already this year due to the accumulation of holidays for all voivodships in one time. The government of Prime Minister Morawiecki was very easy, until he was asked to say with carelessness, closing the entire industry day by day, hour by hour. Prime Minister Morawiecki and his ministers talked a lot about help, but it's kind of like the fireman who set it on fire first and then heroically put it out and put the breast to the awards. However, good ideas and decisions also occurred among the entire series of misguided, chaotic decisions of this government, but it seems to be in the blood of the United Right coalition. Once something fun, simple to come up with, so it's not too good, a civil servant who doesn't seem to know the reality of the tourism industry must have ruined it. After all, he thought that it would be fun to argue the tourism industry by setting one or another term, such as the other term of the voucher. Hands fall off. Therefore, once again, I call on the Government of the United Right to reflect on the extension of the voucher until October, until September 2022. It will take years to get out of the crisis caused by the pandemic. I firmly believe that it is not the government of the United Right that will announce its end, but I also believe that as long as it lasts, it will try to draw the Polish economy and Polish entrepreneurs from the crisis as far as possible. You can do really good on this occasion. Personally, I believe that action should be taken to institutionally ensure that as many resources as possible are directed to the Polish market, to Polish entrepreneurs and service providers. I think that the members of the United Rights Coalition will share my opinion this time, so I intend to take the initiative to introduce such amendments to the Act on the Works Social Fund, which will make it possible for funds to be spent exclusively in Poland. In these difficult times we should carry the Polish economy in every way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u424	Thank you. Mrs Beata Arrowka, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The pandemic that has been going on for more than a year is a difficult time for all of us, especially for health professionals, the time of uncertainty, the fight for human health and life, the time of struggle with fear and often our own weaknesses. It is a specific exam of responsibility for the health and life of Poles. Today, when the situation is slow to normal and the number of diseases is falling, I would like to express my greatest appreciation and respect for all those who have actively engaged in the fight against the COVID-19 virus. It is important to remember those who have put their health and their lives at risk for this unequal struggle. We have experienced the importance of social solidarity, especially in the relationship between medical services - the patient. I would like to thank doctors, nurses, paramedics, hospital staff, the Territorial Defence Army, the Police and all the services that have committed themselves to doing their job for the good of Poles. Thanks to our joint commitment, determination and coordination, we are slowly emerging from this difficult pandemic situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u426	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the more and more inefficient, because difficult, demanding physical effort and great responsibility, at the same time a very low-paid profession is the profession of postman and among postmen - the profession of postman. Just a few years ago, this profession was respected, and mailmen enjoyed great respect, trust, and respect. About mailmen, poems were written and songs were sung. Thanks to the mailmen, we had such a wonderful time. Today, the mailmen neither sing nor laugh, because for their hard work and increasing responsibilities, they get a salary similar to the lowest national ones, nothing to their efforts and pro-family programs of the state. On the other hand, some of the Polish Postmasters glowed with good humor and decided to beat Stanisław Bareja and his immortal Bear, creating a new secular tradition. In the forests of the Bydgoszcz Forest, near Bydgoszcz, in addition to the growing trees, a black, stone, impressive obelisk was built on which the following inscription was carved: In this place the Polish Post Workers, who joined the action of planting trees, led under the patronage of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda in commemorating the 462nd anniversary of the establishment of the Polish Post, planted a young generation of forest. Could you congratulate these officials, just for inventing a new secular tradition of forest-planting posters or for sucking up to the President so that the President can remember them at the next promotions on the PiS staff carousel? It is also interesting to accept the creative expansion of Polish Post in the field of culture and art and to come up with a concept of breaking the collection of postage stamps with an obelisk collection. Or do I propose to include in the Polish Post business plan 500 obelisks on the 500th anniversary? Meanwhile, next year only 463 obelisks. We've got plenty of woods so far. I answer: the trees can die, and the obelisk will last as a proud sign of the Polish grotesque. Putting the obelisks in honor of the president and in honor of the forest generations really, Mr. Postmen, can wait for better times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-20-sejm-30-2.u428	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements. The meeting shall be adjourned until 21 May 2021 at the latest. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 41]]
