ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u1	I open the 30th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Viktor Durlak and Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska as Secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Victor Durlak. Dear Senators, today we will begin with an important event. I would like to warmly welcome the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr Rik Daems, present at the meeting. Welcome. [[Applause]] I also welcome the members of the Presidency Committee and the other members of the delegation. I would like to ask Mr Daems to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u2	Dear Marshal, Dear Friend! Dear Senators! Dear Colleagues and Dear Colleagues! I'm a parliamentarians myself, so I feel at home here. If I may say so. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to begin by thanking you. Thank you for letting me speak in the Senate of the Republic of Poland as President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. But on this occasion I would also like to share a few more personal reflections. I am pleased that the Polish Parliament is still functioning and that it is still performing its democratic functions, despite the challenges that the COVID-19 pandemic poses to all of us. Because it is important to remember that parliaments still have to perform their function in times of pandemic, in particular by representing citizens, adopting laws and exercising control over executive power. And this is one of the main tasks. I would like to stress that no executive authority can have full freedom, it must be controlled by people elected by citizens, i.e. by the Sejm and the Senate. It seems to me that a kind of red flag is if this constant control of Parliament over executive power is disturbed. The assembly I represent here is one of the two main bodies of the Council of Europe The second is the Committee of Ministers. It is a real and important platform for inter-parliamental dialogue, as well as parliamentary diplomacy, as it brings together representatives of 47 Member States, but also representatives of observer states and countries with a partner status for democracy. As parliamentarians, we therefore represent the whole spectrum of political life. What is important to us, to the Parliamentary Assembly, is that we really represent everyone. This is a characteristic that distinguishes us from the Committee of Ministers, because the Committee of Ministers is, of course, a representative of the government supported by the majority. Now a little digression on the Council of Europe, for those who are not 100% familiar with the subject. The Council of Europe is an organisation based on the European Convention on Human Rights, established 70 years ago on fundamental freedoms and fundamental rights. I think you must understand, Mr Marshal and Dear colleagues, that the European Convention on Human Rights should be seen as a kind of constitution, a European constitution of common values. This means that we all live in a single legal area that protects the rights of more than 850 million citizens living in these 47 Member States. It also means And I'd like to stress that very strongly. Because we are bound by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which is the basis of our work, we also have a court, i.e. Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. And in this single legal area, the ruling of this Court must be applied by all Member States. I would like to make it clear here, because sometimes there are misunderstandings and thoughts that the European Convention on Human Rights can be applied freely. No, it's not. This is a constitution which is superior to all other constitutions, which defines our true values, human rights and fundamental freedoms: mentioned in the article. 2 the right to life referred to in Article. 6 the right to a fair trial, referred to in other articles, equality, freedom of expression, freedom of religion and other rights. That is what I wanted to start with, because sometimes there are misunderstandings and thinking that the Council of Europe is an entity that did not create a single legal space. Because he created, as a result of the adoption of the European Convention on Human Rights and the acceptance of its validity, we all live in a single common legal space. One of the important lessons that the pandemic has taught us is that unilateral human actions do not provide stable, sufficient and effective solutions. We live in an increasingly globalized and interconnected world vessel system, and confrontation with the tendencies of fragmentation and isolation, because that's what triggered the pandemic. She forced all our countries to turn to the inside. This has harmed the multilateral approach to real problems. But now it's important that we all and each one of us Whatever groups we come from, they supported multilateral relations and joint efforts in solving global problems. And that's our goal, that's what we offer and that's what we want to inspire. I'm going to use the COVID example. We all know that COVID-19 doesn't stop at any border. On the contrary, what happens in one country affects the situation in other countries. And this is proof that multilateral action is the right way to solve cross-border problems such as COVID etc. So the standard of multilateralism of cooperation adopted in the Council of Europe is the basis for what needs to be done. We can't do this on our own. We have to work together. In recent months, the Parliamentary Assembly has organised a number of meetings on current issues and topics that are important across Europe. Each of these debates has brought very concrete conclusions. We've been looking into things like this. COVID-19 and its impact on our citizens, we have analysed and signaled to the Committee of Ministers very important issues related to artificial intelligence and its impact on democracy, such as fake news, because it relates to the issue of artificial intelligence, and we have raised an extremely serious issue of combating violence against women, because this problem has unfortunately become much worse during the pandemic. Last week, during the autumn session, the Parliamentary Assembly also focused on many environmental problems. Thank you for that. - Thank you, too. - Thank you. All of you, not only my colleagues in Poland, but also the representatives of all 47 Member States, because we unanimously adopted 7 important reports that show the need to change the paradigms within national and international laws, as well as in government strategies, to ensure that a healthy environment is treated as a fundamental human right. It is not just the essence of this problem that is important here. We know that in our society it is young people who are extremely sensitive to these It's a good thing you've seen it. The problems, so if these recommendations that we have adopted unanimously give us a chance, then this is it. also an opportunity for all of us, including those who are no longer young, to reach the young part of society and to do something together. This is, so far, one of the first moments when I see a problem that we can face together. So environmental protection, a very important issue for the future of all of us, is also an issue that can reconnect us all and help rebuild relations with young people. And I would like to say here in the Senate, as I would say in every parliament of 47 Member States, that this is the way it needs to be decorated. We must go to young people and say: we, as the Council of Europe, say that a healthy environment is a fundamental human right, and we approach it unanimously. Policy in this area has been and continues to be For me, but also for others, an extremely important issue in the area of interest of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Thanks to the partnership that started when you joined the Council of Europe in 1991, i.e. about 30 years ago, Senate and Sejm representatives contributed to many interesting and constructive discussions and other activities of the Parliamentary Assembly, which helped promote fundamental human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Europe and beyond. Poland and its representatives at our assembly should definitely appreciate the many important achievements that are a model for other countries. As regards specific examples of such achievements, not only from the distant past, but also from this recent one, during the last 2 days of meetings I had in Warsaw, I had the opportunity to become a witness to them and learn about many facts that confirm this thesis. An example is that Poland was one of the first countries to ratify a widely accepted, most effective, advanced legal tool for combating and ending violence against women and domestic violence, known as the Istanbul Convention. I would like to stress very clearly that this is a tool that is specifically aimed at combating violence against women. And I would like to say to everyone here that this is not a tool for any other purpose. I know there's some sensitivity to gender issues, but the Istanbul Convention, which is the tool I'm talking about, was created only to combat violence against women. And by extending my statement, I want everyone who thinks that this tool can be abused and used for other purposes, to ask very much that they do not preach it, because, in the end, it undermines the fight against violence against women. I welcome the fact that some of you know the Grevio monitoring body, and that it presented its report 3 weeks ago. He stressed there, dear colleagues, very many very positive achievements which confirm the fact that Polish politicians and, more importantly, society see the clear importance and added value of the multilateral approach to this scandalous problem. We all know from our background the cases of people who commit violence against women. And we should all fight this phenomenon together. We can't do this alone, we should unite for this. Of course, something can be improved everywhere, not only in Poland, but also in my country, but let us focus on the real issue, which is the fight against violence against women. Of course, in many countries, including Poland, there is a need to stop sexual violence, rape, sexual harassment. But maybe we should start by looking at the definition of rape as what is laid down in the conventions. That is why I have encouraged your marshal and fellow MPs to submit this debate and also to read the recommendations of the GREVIO report and to think about how we can build and strengthen a legal and political framework to provide women with better protection against violence. The Convention maintains the strong role of national Parliaments in this field, and this is quite unique because the Istanbul Convention is one of those conventions which assigns a particular role to national Parliaments to play, which is why I believe it is time to raise these issues in the Senate, as it must be raised in the parliaments of all 47 Member States of the Council of Europe. Violence against women is deeply rooted in existing inequalities between women and men, in systematic discrimination against women. It exists, we can't be blind to it. Therefore, this issue requires a comprehensive national strategy for equality between women and men, which, in my opinion, is an extremely important element to face violence against women. And speaking of equality between men and women, we need to see this subject as a whole. And here's a short digression. Sometimes I get the feeling that some of our colleagues think equality means being the same. No, absolutely not. Equality means whoever we are, whatever our beliefs are, we are equal in rights. So the right to equality, perceived from the right angle, dear colleagues, is the right to be different. That's what equality means. Thus, in the context of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, every citizen, each individual has the right to be different and has the right to respect. All of us and each one of us should have respect for each other, regardless of our views. Now, of course, it's an issue here and in other countries. LGBTI community rights and other rights. This is a sensitive subject and it is constantly emerging, together with other issues, at the heart of the broad interest of the Council of Europe. It's true. Yeah, we have to be honest with each other. The image of Poland is suffering because of these zones free from LGBTI. I have heard many explanations about this and today I understand the situation much better than two days ago. However, it is true that this does not change the way Poland is perceived. But I would also like to add that I have seen very positive achievements of the Polish government and I would like to express my appreciation for this, because, as I understand from our discussions, measures have been taken to remove any discriminatory or perceived as discriminatory records from documents. And even if I know it now The documents have no legal value and no binding force, and I was very pleased to learn that five regions have already complied with our requests for this matter. Let me repeat for the sake of clarity: this is not about family values and any rights in opposition to them, including the rights of LGBTI people. We just have to respect each other, dear colleagues and Mr. Marshal. That's what this is all about. I will say again: the right to equality is, in its essence, the right to be different, but at the same time to be respected and to be able to show respect for others. This is the core of what this right to be different means. I hope so and I will encourage all of you to support strong legislation against hatred and discrimination in Poland and to ensure that it is effectively implemented. Political leaders in all countries are responsible for countering all forms of hatred, including prejudice against LGBTI people and these, as we know, exist among the population. We know it exists, I'm not blind, you're not blind, we know it. But just because we see it and know it doesn't mean we don't have to fight it. I repeat: we must protect the right of every citizen to be different and to be respected and to respect others. Poland is not only an important member of the Council of Europe. I, Mr Marshal, dear colleagues, believe that your country has great potential to be one of the leading European countries, and even as far as I am concerned, to be a leader in the region. I'm pretty sure about that. I felt that way last week, and now, after the talks I had with important politicians in your country, I am even more convinced of this. E.g. The Warsaw Security Forum, on which I had the pleasure of speaking yesterday, shows a broad appreciation for the role that Poland plays in the region. And it's important not to jeopardize this potential to be the leader you have as a country. I'm moving on to another issue that's also up to date. And we know that. It was said that some legal reforms in Poland had a very negative impact on the independence of the judiciary and respect for the rule of law in Poland. This had a negative impact on the functioning of democratic institutions in the country. This ultimately caused our assembly to open the so-called. the monitoring procedure in this case and, as you know, the European courts have given their judgments on this matter. But I would like to stress one thing here. The assembly and its rapporteurs, other actors, including the Venice Commission, have never questioned and will not question the need or the right of the authorities of any country, including Poland, to make changes, to undertake reforms. Let me repeat: I stress that the assembly and its rapporteur, as well as many other actors, including the Venice Commission, do not question the need and the right of the authorities or parliament to reform the judiciary in the case of any country, including Poland. Nevertheless, it must be stressed that such reforms must respect and strengthen the independence of the judiciary and the rule of law, not act against them. This is related to Article. 6th European Convention on Human Rights, Mr Marshal, and this is a binding convention and we must follow it. If this is not the case, it may contribute to the further negative perception of Poland. I want to counteract this negative image of Poland. But it is true that now, in an important dimension, it seems, the rule of law is being undermined and threatened. I think that you, the Senate, the Sejm, Members of Parliament, should improve this if the amendments are needed. As Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Europe as a whole, we are ready to help you, but not because we want to interfere, on the contrary, we simply have the experience of 46 other countries, maybe better, maybe worse experiences, but we can give you our expertise so that you can make democratic decisions on how to actually build the rule of law in your own country. I would also like to say that being criticized is normal. I'm being criticized, too. But criticism can be viewed in a positive way as helping to create a better society And you're welcome to take it that way. I will repeat here again: we, as Council of Europe, will be on the spot, we are ready to support you, we will provide expertise without interfering in how you will make decisions, but all of this must be in compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights. If this is how it will be done, Mr. Marshal, dear colleagues from the Senate, then we will see good leadership of Poland in the region. Because we need you. We as Council of Europe need a Polish contribution to promoting democracy and human rights in the region and beyond. We need you guys to make this clear. One more thing. Poland is now facing a very difficult situation at the border with Belarus. This is, in my opinion, a scandalous situation. The fact that there are these hybrid attacks by the Belarusian authorities, which, as we seem to think, result in increasing migration. This is one of the issues that have been discussed most intensively during my stay in your beautiful country, especially in the last 2 days. This is also a question that may cause further negative information. But this also shows great opportunities to reverse the situation and start procedures based on coherent, joint issues, regional and European cooperation. As you know or you do not know, last week our assembly as a result of the initiative of Polish parliamentarians and of the Sejm, and of the Senate, of both majority, if I may say so, because also of the ruling party, and of the opposition Once again, I would like to stress this: it was the united front of parliamentarians from Poland that adopted a resolution on the instrumentalised migratory pressure at the border between Latvia, Lithuania and Poland and Belarus. This was a unanimous and unambiguous condemnation of this situation, the core of which is increased artificially, politically controlled, illegal trafficking in human beings carried out and organised by the Belarusian authorities with a total violation of human rights and the dignity of migrants and refugees. The political purpose of this is destabilization. And the sad aspect of this case is suffering people suffering human beings. How to solve this problem, taking into account 2 different perspectives, i.e. How can we combine the fight for these people with the failure of instrumentalisation by a regime that looks at Europe as a whole with an unfavorable eye? Clearly, the political situation in Belarus and its lack of respect for international humanitarian law and human rights can no longer be seen, in my opinion, in terms of the internal affairs of any country, because it is not such a matter. This must be seen as something that is a serious complication for the whole of Europe. Poland, like the other countries mentioned above, is bordering countries, but it is a European issue, it is not just a national issue. By the way, the dignity of man and helping suffering people is not a national issue either, it is a universal question of the value of human dignity. And this is how we should all treat it, of course, taking into account the political implications that are at stake here. So this is about combining issues in the context of regional and European cooperation. That is how I see it, but this is also the general view, because this resolution was adopted unanimously, above the divisions, as I said, at the initiative of Polish parliamentarians. One of them, Alex, is here with us. And that's what we said there. And that's what I'm going to propose. That's the main message of my speech. As you know, the PACE resolution includes many proposals to address this complex problem in a practical but also effective way. Poland, which is on the front line in this growing migration crisis, should play a leading role here, both with the assembly and with the Council of Europe as a whole, in order to encourage other European countries to engage and participate. Because it's not a one-sided problem, it's a multilateral issue. This resolution, unanimously supported by the entire Polish delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly, expresses Poland's commitment to uphold human rights and the principles of humanitarianism as a right concerning refugees and their right to seek asylum, but in accordance with the principles of multilateralism and joint action by all concerned, on which the European community is based. Moreover, the resolution calls on the Belarusians Although I should say: the Belarusian authorities To act in accordance with accepted international obligations, in particular the 1951 Geneva Convention. Let me add that we're celebrating right now. Although I do not know whether it is appropriate to define the 70th anniversary of the signing of the Geneva Convention, which applies to all of us, including Belarus. I am convinced that the initiative that comes from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and has the full support of all the political forces of Poland, as we saw in the Parliamentary Assembly, that your Senate, Mr Marshal, together with the Sejm, can play an important role in this context. That's what I told my callers yesterday and the day before yesterday. And today I would like to propose that all political forces in Poland, the Sejm, the Senate, but also we, as Parliamentary Assembly, turn to the Council of Europe as an institution and work together, in multilateral relations, to solve this terrible problem, in order to protect the human dignity and life of asylum seekers, because this is what the Geneva Convention requires of us, but at the same time we should all act multilaterally to solve the political problem which is the result of this situation. This is, I stress, my message to each and every one of you here in the Senate. I believe, Mr. Marshal, that we should act together in this matter. And I hope that in the coming days we will be able to make progress in dealing with this terrible issue. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm calling a five-minute break. I'm asking you to come back on time because I've got quite a few plaintiffs. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 35 to 11 minutes 41]] I'm reopening the session. We have a lot of points to discuss, so that I ask you to focus as far as possible. Let me remind you that the formula is traditional, i.e. using means of remote communication in a remote way. It's probably gonna be a long time anyway, because the fourth wave is slowing down. I remind you of the meeting in a remote way: see if the iPads are connected and the cameras are on. Please also ensure that the iPad and the lens are positioned so that you can be seen during the connection. Please subscribe to the questions and to the voice in the chat discussion in the application, and please send your requests, speeches and statements via email to the address previously given to you. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal, where requests can be consulted, etc. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Senate Marshal and to start the microphone... I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. We will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators taking part in the sitting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Remote senators, please begin voting, so-called. Webex surveying. We click "OK." I would also like to remind you that you need to double-push the "Transmit" button after you cast your vote. Please report the results. 83 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. May I have a moment of focus, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators? On 29 September 2021 Konstanty Tukałło, Senator of the second term of office from the Poznań Voivodeship, died, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Social Policy and Health, Member of the Committee on Immigration and Poles Abroad. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the late Senator. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its thirty-eighth meeting on 29 September 2021 adopted most of the amendments of the Senate to the Act on Compensation for service providers or economic operators in connection with the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of the Podlaskie Voivodeship and part of the Lublin Voivodeship in 2021. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that points 3 to 13 be considered, even though the committee's reports on these points have been submitted at a later date than set out in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. I propose to delete the fourteenth point: information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period from January to June 2021 ( Portugal's presidency in the Council of the European Union) and consider it at the next meeting. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Law on amending the Budget Act for 2021 and considering it as point one; the Law on amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021 and the Law on the Income of Local Government Units and considering it as point two; the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the Control of the Justice Fund and consider it as the last point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Thank you very much. I propose a change in the order of consideration of the previous fourth paragraph: the Act amending the Law on the Income of Local Government Units and some other laws and consider it as a third point; current fifth paragraph: Act amending the excise duty law and consider it as the fourth point; the 10th point so far: the Law amending the Law on State aid for the raising of children and certain other laws and consider it as point five; so far point nine: the Act amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on certain other days and consider it as point six; so far point two: the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and certain other laws and consider it as point seven; to date point one: Act amending the Foreigners Act and certain other laws and consider it as point eight, as well as point three: the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws and consider it as point nine. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal... You're welcome, Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u4	Mr Marshal, I would like to ask you to agree to the joint examination of point one: the Law amending the Budget Law for 2021; and item two of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021 and the Law on the Income of Local Government Units. These two laws are very closely linked. They were jointly considered by our committee. I think it would be better for the case if we put these two laws together and debate them together.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u5	I answer right away, Mr. Senator: that's the plan, that was initially accepted. If there are no votes against, these points shall be considered together. Mr. Marshal Crack.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today we have some kind of anniversary, it's just been 200 days since a motion from the State's Attorney's Office has been sent to the Senate to waive the immunity of the Marshal. Well, we still can't wait for this item to finally be on the agenda, first, the Senate's Rules of Procedure committee, and second, the plenary sitting. Our applications, the Law and Justice Club, are sent back to the committee as a matter of fact. Mr. Chairman says we don't have your coat, and what are you gonna do? Well, actually, Mr. Chairman can't call a committee meeting because it's been on the desk for almost seven months. As far as I know. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. So I ask on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, when will you finally allow the Marshal, in accordance with the rules of the Senate, to proceed with this motion. I believe that this is an important issue for the Senate, an issue that is important for Polish citizens. And I demand that we finally refer this matter, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, first to the committee and then to the plenary sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u7	Mr. Marshal, I'll be brief. I've been treating this case as a political attack on the Senate's stability from the start. I don't want to get divorced about this. This case is being processed. For the record, I'd like to remind you that the issue of the immunity of your Marshal Gosiewska lasted three years. I don't think we're fighting for records on this one. Let the marshal and the rule board work for you. This subject is going to be solved anyway. I accept your attention. [[But, Mr. Marshal, one more sentence...]] But I didn't give you the floor. [[If you'd be kind enough to tell me how the committee works and how you work the marshal, since there's obviously nothing going on in this case...]] [[The committee is working independently...]] We're not discussing this. Continuing, I would like to inform you that Vice-Marshal Kaminski has submitted a request to complete the agenda for the item: information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the situation arising after the decision of the TSUE on the mine But this item will be considered at the next meeting. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the thirty-first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would like to inform you that at 12:00, which is 8 minutes from now, a half-hour recess is due. During this break there will be an opening of the exhibition "The Element of Good Memories." On the 140th anniversary of the birth of Prof. Marian Falski. Since we have 8 minutes to open for this exhibition, and I see that the guests are already gathering, if you allow me, I will announce a break right now so that we can participate in this opening with dignity, because everyone has benefited from the Elementary. Dismissed until 12:30. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 52 to 12 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u8	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the joint consideration of item 1 and item 2 of the agenda: the Act amending the Budget Law for 2021; the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021 and the Law on the Income of Local Government Units. The texts of the laws are contained in prints Nos 519 and 520 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 519 A and 520 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, who is already on the floor, to present a report to the committee on the Law amending the Budget Law for 2021 and on the Law amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021 and the Law on the Income of Local Government Units. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance a report on the work of our committee on amending the Budget Law for 2021. At the same time, I will present a report to the committee on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021 and the Law on the Income of Local Government Units. The first report is contained in print No 519 A and the second in print No 520 A. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance took note of these two important laws yesterday, analyzed them and discussed them. We have worked through these 2 laws and we propose that the High House accept the amendments that are the result of our work. To amend the budget law This is in the report in print No 519 A We propose the introduction of one amendment, which is, in effect, talking about the priorities of the committee, about the most important issues that we believe should be the subject of our greater commitment. It is about allocating additional resources to protect health. We propose to increase expenditure in part 46 of the health section 85195 by PLN 6 billion 300 million. I am not going to talk more about the justification for this expenditure. I think that in the debate the senators will pay more attention to this problem, to this priority and why we are talking about health in amending the law for 2021. The Act amending the budget law for 2021 was passed by the Sejm last Friday and was sent to the Senate on Monday. The Marshal, in reply to the Minister of Finance's request, agreed that both laws should be examined at this Senate meeting. The Marshal's decision is that we realise how important these laws are. Budgetary laws are always important because they concern state expenditure, state revenue, as well as the financing of various important public objectives. Therefore, the answer and consent of Marshal Grodzki to this request was obvious, and we immediately made an effort to examine this bill and report today. During our meeting, Mr Skuz of the Ministry of Finance first presented, discussed the bill, its objectives, the revision of the budget law for 2021, and then the senators raised questions and discussed all the doubts that arose during the discussions. Why the Law for 2021 is - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The obvious reasons are that the revenue of the state budget has increased significantly in the second half of the year. The increase in this revenue compared to the planned revenue in the budget law for 2021 is clear and amounts to PLN 78.5 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover the various objectives which arise during the financial year. We in the discussion drew attention to the fundamental problem and asked why these budgetary resources were so large, where the additional amounts in the state budget came from at the end of the year. Of course, some of the things that have contributed to the fact that these revenues have increased so clearly, we have been paying attention in the Senate, also in our committee, during the work on the budget for 2021. We have pointed out in a fundamental and decisive manner, showing that tax revenues are clearly underestimated, that much higher revenue should be included in the budget law, because this was also indicated by the trends in economic development that occurred at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, as well as the projected increases in budgetary revenue. So at the time, we thought that tax revenues were clearly underestimated. That's one thing. Two. We pointed out that the income from the National Bank of Poland, which was estimated at PLN 1 billion 300 million, should also be much higher, that this contribution to the state budget should be much higher and several times higher than that planned in the state budget. Therefore, our committee also asked the President of the National Bank of Poland to inform us how the income of the National Bank of Poland is actually estimated. We got a very evasive answer to that question, and we didn't actually get an answer. Our estimates, estimates that we have accepted, and we assumed that this increase should be at a minimum of PLN 3 and PLN 4 billion, and yet the Committee on Budget and Public Finance does not have such apparatus as the Ministry of Finance, as the National Bank of Poland, was much better, more correct than those prepared by the National Bank of Poland and the Ministry of Finance. The third issue that has clearly contributed to revenue growth is inflation. We've been paying attention to this problem, too. The budget law for 2021 includes an inflation target of 1.8%. Today we all know that inflation is definitely higher and that annual inflation will be at least 4,8%. Today, inflation is above 5%. Of course, the rise in inflation also increases revenue to the state budget, in particular the increase in VAT revenue, because any increase in prices automatically results in an increase in VAT, in value, in percentage, in value, it is always a significant increase in value. Revenues from the sale of CO2 allowances have also increased significantly. This amount is also a dozen billion. These are revenues, which were difficult to predict at the beginning of the year, but the trend in price increases for emission allowances was clearly greater than expected in the Budget Act. So these revenues that have emerged and which we think should be largely planned in the budget for 2021... Well, these reasons for the increase in revenue were very much. This may also partly indicate that it is budget planning, financial planning is quite weak in the Ministry of Finance or that it is a deliberate procedure aimed at underestimating these revenues and underestimating the indicators taken into account when estimating the budget for the following years. As additional revenues appeared, the Ministry of Finance decided to amend the Budget Act, assuming that the measures which appeared as additional to the State budget should be earmarked for several important purposes. These objectives are clearly visible in this revision of the Budget Law. The Ministry of Finance proposes in the Act that a penny of funds be earmarked for support to local governments. In total, the amount planned for support to local governments for lost tax revenue, and in the past and in the future... The proposal of the Minister of Finance concerns a total of PLN 12 billion, except that 8 billion is due to lost budget revenue and 4 billion is funds for investments in municipalities for sewage, waterworks, other infrastructure investments. In addition, there is an increase in resources to support the local government in the implementation of investments covering municipal and district roads. Significant measures are also foreseen for the modernisation of railway lines, the extension of railway lines. These are the funds that will be used to support the Railway Fund and the Road Fund. In this amendment, significant resources were allocated to increase the operational capacity of the Armed Forces, to purchase and modernise in the army. The amount foreseen in this budgetary amendment is above PLN 6 billion. In this amendment of the Budget Act, the funds were also transferred to investment tasks of the Police Office, Border Guard, State Fire Service. An important expenditure, which is also included in this revised budget law, is the funds transferred to the incentive fund for the staff of the budgetary sphere. In the budget, the total amount for this is PLN 2.7 billion. Measures have also been earmarked to increase expenditure on financing cultural, agricultural, hard coal mining tasks. It is important that the budget law for 2021 clearly reduces the state budget deficit projected at the end of the year. This deficit would almost double to PLN 41.8 billion. We, as the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, are always pleased with the measures to reduce the deficit, to reduce debt, but we are aware that it is probably difficult to avoid budget deficits especially in situations such as those we have been dealing with recently, so it is about COVID and various difficult problems with the functioning of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, during the discussion on the revision of the budget law, we asked first of all why the budget law is planned in such a way that it needs to be amended and so far gone. It was one of the most fundamental dilemmas that we discussed during the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. The second very important point that we raised was the question of increasing the resources that are so-called. non-extinguishables. Practice so far... That is, the Public Finance Act assumes that non-extinguishing measures, i.e. those which are at the disposal of individual budget managers, should be spent and settled by the end of March of the following year, but in practice this period has been extended in recent years until the end of November of the following year. And we have been paying attention to this problem in a fundamental way, because in practice this means that in a large part of the budget is de facto a 2-year budget. Since a large part of the 2020 budget is spent by the end of November 2021. And that's what's expected and likely to happen next year. In practice, it can be said that this budget is being spent in the following years. As we have pointed out, this means that an increasing proportion of the funds are outside Parliament's control and that spending them is illegible and incomprehensible to the public. The government is obliged to present by the end of May a report on the implementation of the budget law for the previous year, so that such a report can also present those non-extinguishable measures which were spent by the end of March. However, the funds that are spent outside of this time are no longer shown in the funded report. We also talked about this on the occasion of the around budget law. And we have therefore proposed an amendment to make these measures visible in the government's financial statements, so that this information is passed on to Parliament and the Supreme Audit Chamber. During the discussions on the Budgetary Law, we also drew attention to some problems related to, for example, with funds spent on the payroll fund and a 6% prize fund. It will also be non-extinguishable measures, quite significant amounts. And the question that actually arose after our committee meeting, but perhaps it is worth asking this question again here. It is about how these funds are distributed, about how trade unions will have an impact on the allocation of these funds. Previously, it was agreed with trade unions to allocate these funds, and now there is doubt as to whether it would be merely an opinion by trade unions on the funds allocated to this prize fund. I hope the Minister will answer that question as well. Due to the fact that quite significant resources were allocated to various local government projects, there was also a problem regarding the financing of support for local authorities. The point is that in this ratio of the allocation of funds per municipality, determined depending on the problems that occur within the municipalities concerned, also to take into account those municipalities of the Senate already several times, which are park municipalities, i.e. those in which there are national parks. The Minister has undertaken to provide more detailed information on this subject. We hope that this issue will also be resolved and agreed after years. So much for this law on amending the budget law. In turn, to the Act on amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021 and the Act on Income of Local Government Units, we propose some amendments. They're in our print. The most important amendment from the perspective of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance is the amendment which obliges the government to report on the implementation of the budget on the non-extinguishable measures by the end of January of the following year and to forward this report to the Sejm and the Supreme Audit Chamber. The same shall apply to the submission of a report on the implementation of the entire budget. The Minister has accepted this amendment. There have been some doubts about this issue, but we hope that the practice of reporting on the expenditure of these unexploited funds will contribute to the fact that the state budget will be more transparent, clearer. In the context of the debate on the non-extinguishable measures we mentioned here, we also said that we were increasingly feeling that the budget should not be a one-year budget, as is apparent from the Public Finance Act, so that it would become more and more a long-term budget, for a period of two years or even longer. It is possible that future work on such a budget should be undertaken The same is true in the European Union But this really requires a very solid planning, much more solid than you can see in this law for 2021 and its amendment. Well, here you can see that they are unfortunately quite divergent. There has been a change in relation to those plans from the previous year. It is possible that such multiannual planning should be gradually transformed into a financial plan, an annual expenditure plan for a given year. In order to allow a more smooth and flexible functioning of the State. This case was taken at a committee meeting, but the minister did not comment on it. It's obvious that this requires a different discussion, other conversations. An amendment was also tabled during the discussion on the Law amending the Budget Law for 2021... And there's a minority request to adopt a budget law without amendments, but that's what the minority rapporteur will already talk about. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u10	Thank you very much. And I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a request from the minority committee on the law amending the budget law for 2021.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u11	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We are here, as my previous speaker said, Mr Kazimierz Kleina, who has quite comprehensively presented these 2 points on the changes in the budget... I'm just gonna add up, and I'm gonna talk about three things. The first point is that, together with Senator Bogucki and Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, we have submitted a request from minorities, a request to adopt a budget amendment, a revision of the budget law, which was the answer to the amendment by Mr Kleina, President. This amendment changed during the committee meeting. It was supposed to be 10 billion at first, but then as a result of some thought... I hope so. Finally, this amendment concerns a transfer of PLN 6.3 billion from the Armed Forces Modernisation Fund to a special grant for the NFZ. I will remind you that in this original proposal which came to us from the Sejm, this 1 billion PLN for health care was foreseen. That's one thing. The second point is... Mr Kleina raised the issue of some errors when designing the budget law and that we therefore need to make amendments. The revision of the budget is not a bad thing, it is nothing unusual, especially when we are updating the budget with a view to increasing revenue. I think everyone would like to be in such a situation that over the course of the financial year his income is increasing and he/she can allocate these funds to specific needs reported by the budget managers. As a result of the economic policy that you spoke about a few days ago, Professor Adam Glapiński... He said so much, very graphically, that we now have such a small economic miracle, that in the very difficult time we leave the COVID we grow income. The government estimates that by the end of the year these revenues will increase by PLN 78.5 billion compared to the adopted budget. Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of VAT, these revenues increase by 24%, in terms of excise duties. By 21%, in the field of personal income tax, by almost 17%. The government has made such a decision that, since it has a surplus of about PLN 78,5 billion in relation to this project, it will transfer about half of these funds to reduce the deficit. As a result of this amendment, the deficit from over 82 billion will fall to just over 40 billion PLN. So you could say that we're reducing debt first. The other half we will try to allocate to those needs that are important and important. The biggest beneficiary of this change will, of course, be local governments, which is lying to what is often repeated, as some local governments say, but above all the politicians of the opposition of the Sejm, that means that this government or this parliamentary majority, the Sejm supposedly is against the local governments. Twelve billion goes to local government. This amount, 12 billion, is made up of two elements. 8 billion PLN will be transferred to local governments this year I think they'll be coming in November or early December. As measures that will serve local authorities next year, compensating for the expected reduction in own income mainly from PIT. ♪ If we can make it ♪ And at the next Senate meeting, we're gonna try to do that. Forging tax changes, i.e. introducing a tax-free amount for individuals of PLN 30 000, is... Next year it is assumed that taxes related to PIT will be lower for you and therefore local governments will also have a smaller share... As far as the 8 billion are concerned, this is the government's idea of talking to local government officials, which was announced by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, so that these funds, divided according to the algorithm In other words, all the municipalities, all the districts, all the voivodships were destined for the so-called voivodships. current expenditure. Often local government officials complained that the government was providing money for investments in the form of RIFL, government local investment funds, this year's Strategic Investment Programme, but they lack funds for current expenditure. And it is this 8 billion that is securing for local governments, already this year, for current expenditure. After all, budgets of local government units are about to be adopted. And they will already know that next year they have guaranteed certain money, which will, of course, also allow better planning of these budgets of local governments. And literally information from a few days ago or rather a decision from several days ago, because, as the President said, the budget law was passed last week: about PLN 4 billion was added to this. This is also money for local governments, for municipalities, marked money, which will also be divided according to the algorithm, into plumbing and water supply. This is also the aftermath, the effect that the government is already seeing, the recruitment to the Strategic Investment Programme through BGK. Because it is very many local government units that report the need for quite large water and sewage investments. Well, these are pretty expensive things. And I think this extra fund that goes to all the municipalities is going to be another injection of money for water and sewage investments. But, of course, as Mr President said here, there is a lot of spending for which this money will be transferred. First of all, it will also go on the roads, it will go on the acceleration of the 100 bypasses program, it will go on the railroad, it will go on agriculture, including mainly the fight against ASF, and of course the modernisation of the Armed Forces, i.e. the purchase of abrams, tanks due to the tense geostrategic situation that we have. The point is to speed things up here too, if we have a budget surplus. It will also go for people with disabilities through the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. PLN 1 billion will go to higher education, 900 million to universities, also divided according to the algorithm, 100 million to the Łukasiewicz Research Network. You have it very detailed. Sometimes these are expenses of 3, 4 or 5 million, including an increase in expenditure on the Senate Office and, respectively, the Sejm Chancellery. But it's all listed. And to increase security, to the police and to the Border Guard, in this area of the MSWiA, 2.7 billion. And the rest is that much less. And last note, the third one you started with, Mr Klein. Namely: was this budget deliberately so formulated, or were there errors here that suddenly during the financial year we have almost PLN 80 billion more income and we can distribute it, we can devote it to important investment and social goals? Oh, it's still very important. Mr Kleina, of course, was also talking about this, but it is worth noting this. That's 6%. we use the incentive fund for the budgetary sphere. Because of the COVID last year and this year, these measures were frozen. After 3%, we're evening up now. Hence the 6%. The budgetary sphere will be able to get various kinds of prizes. So there's this expectation of growth... But going back to whether the budget was well planned... please note that this budget was planned in mid-2020. Let's remember that it was March, it was COVID, it was empty streets of Polish cities, it was dramatic uncertainty as to whether overall the world economy would not collapse. Because no one's ever seen such a situation, such a plague. At most in science fiction movies, we predicted something like this could happen. I remember myself going to my office, which I have in the city center, and I was practically the only person on the street, at noon, the city was just empty. When these assumptions were made in May, in June 2020 for 2021... Thus the conservative approach of the government, in this situation and under these circumstances, is so justified. As a result of these many actions which are undertaken, thanks to measures from many shields, which went to Polish entrepreneurs, to Polish local governments, several million jobs were saved. We also remember government local investment funds for local governments. And that's how we boosted the economy, including the introduction of money into the economy. National Bank of Poland, which is the standard, because the same was done by the European Central Bank and the Fed in the United States... And today we can say that these macroeconomic indicators... It's just that each of these indicators goes up. We estimate that this year this economic growth will reach almost 5%. This economic development, which is better than the best assumptions provided, the best forecasts that were, shows how relevant the economic policy we took, then, during the COVID, with some risks. So that not only did we manage to keep jobs, but also we managed to stimulate this economy so that today we have nearly 80 billion zlotys more in the budget. And I wish... First of all, I would like every future finance minister to be able to come to Parliament at this time in October and say: we have such a significant revenue increase that we can allocate these revenues to reduce the budget deficit and for some other purposes. It is known that there will always be areas and areas in the budget that should be supported. Perhaps President Kleina did not want to repeat this question or report today... But at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Mr Kleina put this question, namely: what would have happened if there had not been this amendment? The Minister's response was clear, partly Mr Kleina answered himself. Well, if it weren't for this amendment, it would just be the budget surplus that would cover the budget deficit, but in practice, if it weren't for this amendment, it wouldn't be the 12 billion zlotys for local governments. And it's going to affect their budgets next year. There would be no money for all these important social goals, i.e. on roads, on railways, on Armed Forces, on disabled people, on higher education, etc. With this revision, the funds will be available for these purposes. We as a minority have made this proposal because we do not agree to make quite a significant shift in this way, so at the last minute, because about 6 billion, in terms of the proposals made by the government. Well, we have some kind of budget opportunities and needs resulting from the situation of the Armed Forces. You could always say that something was missing, that you could give this, this, and this, because these needs in different areas are unlimited. Well, here's the senate majority, the senate majority on the committee, of course, played very populistly, saying, well, let's pass it on to health care. Well, who wouldn't? But I'll remind you one thing, that we have an insurance health system that he introduced, a nomen omen, Mr. Senator Klein, when he was still in AWS. So this health care should be financed by contributions. And one of the elements of the Polish Deal, which will be adopted, will be about the desire to increase such... Well, because of the liquidation of the possibility of a write-off of health contributions on tax, overall the budget loses, but gains the NFZ. So next year, as a result of these tax changes, the NFZ will receive quite significant support and the budget of the NFZ will increase much, much more than the proposals that are put forward here in this amendment. Hence the minority's conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u12	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Senator Alexander Swed wants to ask you a question. Who? [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to address the question to the senator of the minority rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Mroz.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u13	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as we look at this amendment, we can see all the positives. It is expected that revenue will increase by up to PLN 78.5 billion. There is already a budget surplus of around 35 billion for July. I'd like to make it sound as long as the deficit is reduced precisely. Here you spoke very widely about the support for local government units in the framework of this amendment. I would like to ask: were you discussing the financial situation of earlier local governments, especially during the 2016-2020 period, and the current situation in the Committee on the Budget? Well, we have COVID, and yet support for local governments has increased significantly. You said, among other things, about these 12 billion, but as part of this amendment we still have funds for municipal roads, district roads, we have many positive programs for local governments. We see that local governments are a priority for the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u14	Thank you, Senator. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I would like to point out that the question should be included in one minute. Mr. Senator Secretary, please make sure they don't exceed one minute. Okay? [[Good.]] And give me a signal. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u15	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Yes, the government sees the need for good cooperation with local governments, and therefore spends so much money that flows directly to local governments. Please note that regardless of whether it is money within the framework of the 8 billion or under the funds of the Government Local Investment Fund, or As at present the Strategic Investment Programme, the government only transfers money, and local governments themselves decide what they want to spend it on. We don't say, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you get it, and you don't get it. Here local governments, as the name indicates, self-government, make their own decisions. Of course, when it comes to the 8 billion zlotys that are going to be given to local governments, it is theoretically compensation for expenditure and reduction of revenue for local governments, but it is the local authorities who will decide whether they will count it as own contributions to investment expenditure or whether they will spend it on current expenditure. It'll be the decision of the local government. And this 12 billion is quite an important amount, which will quite significantly boost budgets. Of course, this money will be spent next year, which is why such a large amount of unexpired expenditure will be spent. But that's the second point. As far as the deficit is concerned, it was planned to amount to PLN 82.3 billion, falling to PLN 40.5 billion, i.e. this year's deficit will be reduced by around 36 billion. Yes? So we're gonna be less... So it's going to be issued by the finance minister less bonds, the 36 billion less.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u16	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u17	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I have a question for Senator Kleina, actually two questions. One specific, specific item: from what position, when it comes to arming our army, you want to give up what this money is for... I mean, not for what, but what would they be taken from? You are proposing to withdraw 6.3 billion PLN, in a time like this and not another situation of Poland in terms of security from the East. And second question. I got, like, two different reports here. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. One is a report by a minority representative who talks about positive developments, about how well the Polish economy is developing, what these gains are and what they can be directed at, and the other is your report, unfortunately, lacking numbers. In the report of the budget committee, the figure is clou, the basis. This report said some more specific negatives. Well, what's it like? Let me get this straight. It's a good thing we have such a big budget surplus, not a surplus, but an extra income for now? And is it good that we spend it on extra expenses and reduce the deficit? Or is that bad? How do you feel about this as head of the budget committee? Does this simply indicate that our economy is developing or something else?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u18	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u19	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Dear Senator, my answers were quite precise and basically the answers to those questions you put were clearly presented. I just want to say this: all the time, as we are talking right now, even about all the expenses that have now been included in the revision of the Budget Act for 2021... These are all the expenses that will be covered by the loan, not by the extra money earned, but by the debt, because still, even after this amendment of the Budget Act, the deficit will be very high. So if, theoretically, we did not make the expenses that were included in this bill, the amendment of the budget law, then only then would the budget of the state be close, so to speak, that it would be deficitless. So it's all about these goals, even the goal that we've set as a priority, which is health care... Well, because it's a priority today, I don't think anybody doubts in times of pandemic, these health problems, the situation in health care. This is serious. But even this amount will come from the debt of the state, not from the extra money we have worked out. So it's worth paying attention to. All those goals we're pursuing here... Unfortunately, these measures continue to come from government debt in practice. And here's the other thing. What measures do we provide for this expenditure for health care? These are the measures that were foreseen in the amendment for the modernisation of the armed forces, precisely for the purchase of abrams. It's for that purpose, exactly that. Because the minister at the committee meeting told us that the expenses that are programmed in this revision of the budget law are pro-development expenditure, which is kind of leading to economic development. Well, spending on purchasing these weapons will not contribute specifically to greater economic dynamics, because it will be funds that will flow directly from the state budget abroad. I'm not judging on purpose right now. I personally have serious doubts about the purpose of this purchase, but, well, I'm not a defense specialist, so these are Maybe it's more of an emotional thing. But it seems to me that today, however, a priority should be the issue of health care and showing that we are providing some additional resources for this purpose. Because in this amendment there are resources for health care, that is PLN 1 billion. And now I want to say this: of course, I am always happy with every additional revenue of the state budget, this is an obvious matter, and I also said here that I am happy about it. We just have to keep in mind that even this big development, which Polish economy... Well, he is, there is this development, because the budgetary revenues are higher. However, this is due to the fact that as a Polish state we have indebted ourselves in an amazing way in these recent times. Over 400 billion zlotys are new debts that result from this development. As I say, this is also a broader context. Right? And it's the debt somebody's gonna have to pay, and they're gonna have to pay back the next generation. It's not just gonna go away. Right? What were the sources, I already made clear. I think the income was underestimated. We drew attention to this a year ago at the committee meeting during the budgetary discussion. Besides, the Minister of Finance admitted, as if softly, that we were right about this, that the Ministry adopted such a very, very cautious forecast. It was the decision of the Ministry and I respect it, but ours, so to speak, estimates, estimates of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, which does not have the apparatus that the Ministry has, were indeed clearly better. Even the deposit from the National Bank of Poland was estimated at PLN 1 billion 300 million and the actual deposit amounted to PLN 8.9 billion. Well, I'm not talking about the impact on financial results, budget revenue, inflation. Nobody talks about inflation here, and this is de facto destructive inflation for the economy. Well, President Glapiński until yesterday said that inflation was about 5% It's good for the economy. Yesterday or the day before he changed his optics a little bit. After all, yesterday, the Monetary Policy Council raised interest rates. She raised them minimally, of course, but it has already shown that there is a serious problem. So I think you have to see it in such a much broader context. Let's not just focus on the fact that there's something to be happy about. Because we're happy to have extra money, but some of them are affected by this deadly mechanism of inflation. And inflation is hitting our savings, that's hitting our wages. 'Cause what does it mean that the salary has been raised by 5% if inflation is 5% ? That means there's no salary increase. These effects are very, very serious. At least that's what most of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance thinks. These issues are very important, but I do not want to repeat what I have already said so as not to prolong. The marshal nods that I should finish, so I'm done.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u20	Senator Jan Maria... [[Senator Czerwiński wants to ask.]] Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question... [[I put your senator on the list.]] Yes, sir. [[There you go.]] I have a question for Senator Kleina, and then I'm gonna ask both of you because I don't know who's gonna be able to answer the second question. My question is this. I understand the social expectations of the health sector as much as possible. Well, I understand that there is such a desire behind your amendment. And that's a substantial amount, over PLN 6 billion. But I also have security issues that may be less spectacular, but they are strategically important for our present and future. I have a question: wouldn't the applicants be able to modify this amendment in such a way as to move these measures... If this is the total amount of these surpluses, perhaps from other sources it could be financed. And then there would be no dilemma, no health, no safety. Because this dilemma is actually quite difficult. And second question. This already concerns a more detailed matter. Well, there's a speech, among other things. about the purchase of shares in the Polish State Railways, up to 100%. Please tell us what the structure is and what is the justification for this purpose. Because I've always been convinced that it's 100% ... Maybe here comes my lack of knowledge in this area, but I thought it was a 100% ownership structure. What's the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u22	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u23	Senator, this is a matter of priority. The Commission has made such a decision that today it is more appropriate to spend on health care than for the purpose for which it has been allocated, all the more so because it is an advance. Well, it is de facto the removal of these funds from Poland, not in a criminal sense, only that it will simply be the income of another foreign entity. And it's still an advance, because when that weapon gets to us, it's this guy... Well, they probably know it in this ministry, but we didn't discuss it on purpose. If the senator sees a better idea, a better idea, so to speak, the wording of this amendment, then of course that can be done. That's what we thought. That's what we accepted. Second question: ownership structure in Polish Railway Lines. I think in practice 100% this is the property of the state, except that a little over 13%, about 14% This is the property of PKP, the Polish National Railways, and the rest is the Treasury. So we have doubts that this is a deliberate purchase, because it doesn't really change anything. It is possible that this is about supporting the PKP and recapitalising the PKP, not making some kind of ownership revolution, because this ownership is state-owned: either it is the property of the State Treasury, or it is the property of the State through the Polish State Railways. Therefore, the State's buy-out should not be such a priority. I'd rather. I think it may even be so that these measures are intended for the modernisation of railway lines in their entirety. These amounts are certainly very necessary there, because there are still expectations that much more work will be done there. The Minister of Finance and the Minister responsible for Transport will take the final decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u24	Thank you. Now I'm asking the question, but I'm asking the senator of the minority proposal. Mr. Senator, you have made it clear that this surplus comes from an increased development of the economy. But tell me, in your opinion, how much comes from increased growth, and how much from increased inflation? What are the proportions?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u25	Mr. Marshal, I can say that these main sources of revenue increases in the budget beyond changes in practically all taxes, because they are changes in CIT and PIT, and in excise, and in sectoral taxes... Of course, this scale is different: it is from 2-3% to 20-30%. Another, as was said, was the source of the increase in income, of course, the profit of the National Bank of Poland. It was quite a big increase, it was supposed to be 8 billion, if I'm not mistaken... Well, President Kleina nods her head. Of course, the increase in the profit of the National Bank of Poland does not depend on the government, planning is the responsibility of the National Bank of Poland, the Management Board of NBP, because it is he who determines it. And as we know, the profit of NBP comes from the exchange rate differences, which are in the case of currencies, and on the other hand from such a quite prudent policy of the head of NBP, namely buying gold, because the price of this crumb went up quite strongly and hence there are these profits of the National Bank of Poland. Let us remember that to some extent they are the result of certain accounts. And that last item, where it was quite high growth, is the fees for CO2 certificates. Well, it's just that from the growth in this position, we should be the least excited, because this money has been paid in by energy companies and therefore... [[Where'd they get it?]] That's why I said we shouldn't be... [[Very sensible politics.]] ...we shouldn't be too happy, Mr. Senator. And these increases in fees for CO2 certificates are a source of very restrictive, and for the Polish deadly economy, the climate policy that the European Union is pushing. Remember that in 2015 the cost of CO2 certificates was the cost €5.6. Today it is over 60 euros, it reaches up to 65 euros. For countries such as Poland, which have coal-based energy, i.e. CO2 emissions, this is very unfavorable. Let us remember that these 13 billion from CO2 that have entered the budget of Polish energy companies, it was for limits which the Polish state has free of charge. Of course, this is just a fraction of the costs that energy has to bear, because most of them have to be bought on the international market today. If I'm not mistaken, two years ago... why did these prices explode? Because two years ago, the European Union authorised certificates for CO2 emissions of investment funds, making it such a quasi-value paper. And it became the subject of some kind of speculation, it was like in the bond market, in the stock market. And some international investment funds, pension funds, hedge funds in performance... That's how they elevated the prices. Of course, behind the threshold, we have Commissioner Timmermans' programme, which continues to increase the CO2 emission limits for the European Union as a whole. On the other hand, the number of free certificates held by countries is decreasing. And today we have the effects of all this, and it is not only in Poland. On this policy Italy slipped, Spain slipped, Portugal slipped. These countries believed that they would be smart to implement such a policy by transforming coal-fired power plants into gas. And maybe it would have worked out if it hadn't been for Vladimir Putin, who limited the gas supply. Today, even countries that do not associate with high carbon emissions, because they have simply left them, such as Spain and Portugal, have a very dramatic situation linked to the rise in energy prices. The situation is even more dramatic in Italy. For climate reasons in the north Italy consumes quite a lot of energy in winter. They've basically turned their entire energy industry into... most of them coal power plants. Remember, I say this to all RES supporters that RES is needed, important, important, but this can only be a supplement. I would stress: supplemental. Germany is the largest issuer, the country that consumes the most coal in the European Union. Germans use dirty coal from this deposit, which goes from Bogatyn to German. This is dirty coal, worse in terms of CO2 than hard coal. I'm going back to your Marshal's question about inflation. Well, inflation is a process. It can't be calculated, income just goes up. If inflation is relevant in the case of tax revenue, it is, of course, VAT, because VAT is, so to speak, added to the increase in prices. I would just like to remind you that... in addition to Mr Kleina's reply, who said that we have 5% inflation, and if we go 5% increase in wages, so it's going to be zero... It's just that wages are growing almost twice as fast as inflation. Thus, even despite inflation, real wages are growing faster, so Poles are getting richer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u26	Well, thank you. I won't ask you how you get rich on inflation, but... budget? I understand, but... [[Mr. Marshal...]] No, no. You're already very thorough... [[Mr. Marshal, of course we're not getting rich on inflation. I'm saying that these are statistics that can be checked for themselves, that despite inflation... wages are rising more than inflation, and therefore people relatively higher have income.]] Good. I don't want to get into this discussion anymore... [[This is an objective fact, Mr. Marshal, which is undeniable.]] I understand, yes, objective fact... I'm not here to convince you... This is not the time for discussion. Senator Janusz Bladder. [[Mr. Marshal, thank you. I'll have a question for the Minister later.]] Okay, to the minister. Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll admit, sir, the senator's answer. Kleins inspired me to ask two short questions. First. Well, there's progress, and we already know that some of the additional resources are from economic growth. I would like to ask for a presentation on what level Poland is at in relation to other countries. How does this economic growth, let us assume, in the European Union, look like ours? In the percentage of GDP... Because it's gonna be clear and obvious. And second question. In your reply, I'd call it, I felt that perhaps I don't know if it's true, I'd ask you to possibly demente it... Well, you're suggesting that this law simply shouldn't be implemented and that all of these additional revenues should be allocated to the elimination of the budget deficit. Is that really so, or are you suggesting it, or is it just like that? I also ask in the context of the fact that representatives of the local government can listen to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u28	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The issue of comparing economic growth to GDP in individual European countries was not the subject of our meeting and we did not consider this at the committee meeting. The second point concerning this amendment. Yeah, that was the question. If the amendment had not been made, all these additional revenues would have contributed to the reduction of the government budget deficit. The third issue, the question of the government budget. Well, even in spite of the amounts that have been mentioned and indicated here, local authorities still believe that their losses due to different legal changes This will also be discussed by another law that will be examined in this House today. [[Thank you...]] [[12 billion, if I understand correctly...]] That's 8 billion for compensation and 4 billion for this I've already talked about for additional investments, mainly sewage and water supply. I mentioned it... [[But did you...]] Yeah, but eight billion to make amends. I was talking about it, I was talking about 12 billion... Maybe I didn't break it up like that, now I split it up. [[Good. And did you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u30	Pass. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj... [[But I'd like to do exactly...]] No, Mr. Senator... [[All right.]] In a minute, you should fit in, and in the first question, you fit in in a minute, and that's just a discussion by way of questions. Please, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. [[Mr. Marshal, after hearing Senator Mr. Frost's statement, I refuse to ask questions.]] Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u31	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you, Senator Christopher Mroz. I'd like to refer in part to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ear-to-ear...]] There he is, right next to me. I would like to refer in part to the question of Marshal Borusewicz. The last five years have been a reduction in more than 20 taxes in Poland, and yet, thanks to the responsible budgetary policy of the government, we have seen an increase in tax revenue. This is an effect, among others. sealing public finances and fighting the VAT mafia. And after the revision of the budget I see here such amounts that... It is planned, for example, that in 2021 the PIT revenue will increase in the budget bill was planned 69.3 billion, and now it is to be 71.3 billion; with CIT it was planned 37.1 billion, and now it is to be PLN 49.5 billion; and with VAT there was planned PLN 181 billion, and now it is to be PLN 214.5 billion. It is planned that the tax revenue will generally rise to 440... sorry, 424.8 billion, while the budget bill included PLN 369.1 billion. So we have hard numbers here. I would like to ask whether this was mentioned at the committee meeting and whether these increases in tax revenue were quoted.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u32	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u33	In general, let me put it this way: of course we were talking about these influences, but this increase in income was discussed specifically by the Minister, presenting an amendment. We know that if we want to spend money on something, we have to have that money first, we have to get it from somewhere. That increase in tax revenue was discussed, but sort of vaguely. However, ladies and gentlemen, I thought this discussion would go a little bit in a different direction. This is one of those laws that, in my opinion, should not cause any controversy. We should not look for a third bottom in a situation where we have a driven economy, we have growing economic growth, from quarter to quarter, we have growing tax revenues, from all taxes, and we can tell Poles today that our economy has never been as good in history as it is now. And we can talk about this miracle in this context, that it all happens after a very difficult year of covid. After all, this year is also to some extent covidative and in particular the tourism industry, I am a mountain area, and for a few months it has been limited in operation. And yet the economy is developing so well. And whether it's the PiS, the Platform, the SLD or, say, the PSL, we should be happy with these macroeconomic indicators, because they're just great. And let us remember that in a moment we will be working on the budget for 2022, i.e. The Ministry of Finance is probably finishing its work on the budget. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I know, Mr. Senator Czarnobaj, that as well as Poland is doing well, the opposition does not have anything to be happy about, although it should be happy. You're here all the time, so to speak... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[These are the answers to questions? Well, Mr. Marshal...]] [[The voice from the room: What propaganda.]] ...he's trying to question... [[The voice from the hall: You seem to have forgotten where he is...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u34	Mr. Senators, the Senator rapporteur can speak here, justify... My role is only technical. I can't take away his voice. But, Senator... [[I'm done.]] Are you done? [[Yes.]] Well, that's great. [[Mr. Marshal, as a correction...]] No, no, there's no correction. [[But my name came up, so I have to correct it.]] Ah! Yeah, it's dead. Unfortunately, Mr. Senator, it's dead. There you go. Mr. Senator, you can come down because you're gonna straighten up... [[Mr. Marshal, why, unfortunately? And, unfortunately, in this context, it's...]] I'm not gonna straighten it out. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u35	I would like to say, Mr. Senator, that you have the wrong, morbidly wrong idea of what the opposition is enjoying. If you don't understand that a true virtue critic isn't afraid, then you don't understand. And please don't put in such a way that I'm glad it's worse. I want to assure you, I want to assure you that I enjoy every success of Poland No matter who's in charge. Please accept that we will pay attention to what could be done better to achieve better results. In a moment's time, I'm going to give you all the numbers and facts, not the PiS propaganda, the TVPiS you're doing, and in this context, you're using my name.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u36	Mr. Senator, thank you for the correction. Let's get back to the questions. Please, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u37	I have a question for Senator Kazimierz Kleina, winged by Senator Mr. Mr. Frost's statement on the excellent budgetary indicators. I would like to ask you about a statement by the Minister of State Assets Jack Sasina of January 13 on his Twitter: 100% compensation the increase in electricity prices will cover all natural persons within the first tax threshold. On September 7th, Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin said to PAP: "The increase in electricity prices is imminent [...]. The expectations of energy companies will be determined by the companies themselves in the tariff proposals to the Energy Regulatory Office. I would like to ask the senator, because I have not found exactly where in this revision of the budget are the financial resources attached to Prime Minister Sasin's promise to those compensations which will be, and will say that the increases in electricity prices are inevitable. I understand that compensation is equally inevitable. Please indicate where the budget amendment contains the financial resources that the government has written down for its implementation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u38	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u39	This amendment does not explicitly include amounts earmarked for this purpose, except that, according to the law, part of the CO2 revenues may also be earmarked for such purposes if the government so decides. Of course, most of these measures must be earmarked for energy change to less emission.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u40	Thank you... [[I'd just like to ask...]] Mr. Senator, I'll put you in. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Kleina. In your speech, when you discussed the committee's report on the bill, you mentioned underestimating the state budget for 2021 in the original version of the budget that we adopted in autumn 2020. Could you elaborate your theory and say whether, in your view, the government deliberately underestimated this budget, didn't foresee a higher revenue on the budget side, or were there objective factors that were difficult to predict on the date of budget adoption, at least in the Senate, a year ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u42	Thank you. There you go... [[Less than a year ago, to be exact.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Whether it was a deliberate procedure or unaware of the weakness of the Ministry's financial services, that's the question. I think it's for the Minister of Finance. Minister Skuz will talk about it, so I think he will answer the question fully. I just said, and this is what we talked about at the committee meeting, that our Committee on Budgets and Public Finances when adopting the budget law for 2021 estimated, etc., from which various kinds of amendments appeared. Abstracting from the purpose of these amendments, I will say that in the income part they in fact overlap in every place with this... They were far more modest than today's income. We drew attention to the increase in income from all these taxes and charges, which are now actually taking place, we also anticipated a greater profit to the budget from the National Bank of Poland. We have also demonstrated the justification for these increases in tax revenues and payments. So it was done. We just pointed it out at the committee meeting, we didn't look at it any further. What were the reasons, perhaps the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u44	Thank you, Senator. I can't hear any more questions. The draft laws were submitted by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Sebastian Skuz, would you like to take the floor on the laws under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u45	Dear Marshal, High Senate! First of all, I would like to thank you for introducing these two important points to today's Senate meeting. Indeed, the pace of work is express, but things are extremely important. I would like to address the issue of planning the original draft budget law. The original draft budget law was drawn up in the middle of last year, i.e. under very high uncertainty not only with regard to the projected trends in the economy, but also to the macroeconomic situation and expected trends in the following quarters of 2020. It was then extremely difficult to predict the final scale and structure of the collapse of economic activity caused by the outbreak of the COVID pandemic. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, I quoted a quote which referred to the draft budget law drawn up a year ago by the Council of Ministers, a quote from the statements of the Polish Employers who claimed that although government forecasts fall within the median market average, the government is too optimistic here and should set itself at the bottom end of this range because there is very high uncertainty. It has already been said here that it is better that we have the possibility of amending the budget, with only positive risks, i.e. a 78.5 billion higher budget revenue than the need to update the budget by increasing the deficit. Let us bear in mind that the Public Finance Act clearly indicates that revenue represents a certain forecast, while expenditure has the so-called. the nature of the Directive, which is an absolute limit. Therefore, if revenue were lower, the budget should be revised to cover the deficit. There were also questions about the structure of income growth and what is here, for example. the role of inflation. First of all, the increased revenue of the State budget from the tax on goods and services should be indicated. This is planned for the whole year 2021 at PLN 214.5 billion, which is 33.5 billion more than originally foreseen in the Budget Act and almost 30 billion more compared to the performance of revenues of 2020. What was the cause of this? First of all, a very good implementation of VAT income to date, which is a consequence of economic recovery. Well, it was difficult to plan such an economic recovery in mid-2020. What else? Expected more favourable macroeconomic situation throughout 2021 The nominal increase in private consumption is expected here by 9.9%. Against the projected consumption increase of 6,3% at the budgetary stage of the law for 2021. As I stressed, the forecast of revenue from the tax on goods and services was also highly conservative. If we were to talk about the impact of inflation here, this impact is estimated by the Ministry of Finance at about PLN 4.6 billion, talking about additional revenue from the tax on goods and services. There have already been quotas for deficit reduction, a reduction of more than 41 billion zlotys. Thanks to these additional revenues, both the budget deficit is reduced and some expenses that we have not been able to plan due to the prudential projections in the original draft budget law for 2021 are financed. But what do I want to go back to, what do I emphasize? It is not possible to place a sign of equality between the prudential forecast and the understatement forecast. I will say that I would not even really see the point of doing this, i.e. showing a much higher deficit, much higher financial needs, because as a result it could cost much more, we would be valued less by financial markets, by credit rating agencies. So it was done cautiously, but there was absolutely no evil will here, or even deliberate action in the form of showing lower incomes. What else is caution, and what else would be purposeful action. And here again I draw attention to the issue of the approach of the employers of the Polish Republic to the presented budget. There was an assumption that he was too optimistic about what was going to happen to us. I also stress one more important point: at the moment we have much higher inflation than the planned one, but then this inflation is 1.8%. it was also part of market forecasts. These were not unilateral estimates or statements by the Ministry of Finance. In the end, the expenditure of the state budget after the amendment would amount to PLN 523.5 billion. The expenditure groups have already been mentioned here, what they would be allocated to. The largest beneficiary would be local government units: 8 billion additional subsidies and 4 billion additional subsidies, but of an investment nature, for local government units where the shortage in municipal infrastructure in the area of sewerage and water supply is below a certain percentage on a national scale. Mr Marshal, the Senate, together with the draft amendment to the budget law, was also submitted a draft amendment to the so-called. a budget law. The most important solution for budgetary staff in this around budget law is the creation of an additional incentive fund of 6% in 2021 to be used in 2022. Why would such a fund be created at this point, and what would its essence and its height be? Namely, in 2020 administrative decisions were blocked funds for remuneration in order to create a financial buffer for the purchase of vaccines on COVID. The draft budget law and the budget law for 2021 did not contain any measures related to the so-called. A three-percent prize fund. It just became a budget-by-budget bill. Due to the prudential forecast, no expenditure was foreseen for this purpose. Now the situation allows for a return to this and the creation of such a incentive fund for the state budget sphere. The resources would be allocated to task allowances in the national budgetary sphere, incentive allowances for some particular achievements at work. It wouldn't be a typical prize fund. The rules for the allocation of these measures would be subject to an opinion by the trade union party. As regards issues relating to non-extinguishing expenditure and their specific nature, there was also a lack of transparency. I can't agree with that, and I'm gonna make a little history. The previous law on public finances in basic rules, not specific rules, provided that funds for unexploited funds could be used by the end of June. The constitutional deadline for submitting the budget implementation report is the end of May. And the earlier law on public finances itself stated that unexploited expenditure funds could be implemented by the end of June. The years 2021 and 2022, I think, are still specific in this respect and these solutions for non-extinguishing expenditure are needed. I don't see any problems with the lack of transparency here. Here I would like to stress that if something is included in non-extinguishing expenses, it will be charged immediately for the year in which such expenditure was created. That is, if in 2021 there will be non-extinguishable expenditure, as defined by the Council of Ministers Regulation... And there, in the Regulation, it is very detailed in what part, for which and when these measures are to be implemented. But I would point out here that this would burden, according to the national methodology, the deficit of the current year. So in 2021 they would be e.g. revenue effected, expenditure effected, including non-extinguishable expenditure. So they would burden the deficit of this year, since we're dealing with national methodology here. There is also a distribution of PLN 4 billion, which I mentioned, for local government units due to the need to strengthen part of local government units with additional resources for investments in the area of sewerage and water supply. And here I note that both the mentioned 8 billion PLN for compensation of personal income tax losses, as well as these additional funds for water and sewage infrastructure will be allocated in an algorithmic manner, on the basis of the criteria laid down in the laws. Senator Kazimierz Kleina drew attention here to the specific support of municipalities located in the area of national parks. According to our initial simulations, from the amount of PLN 4 billion in support of local government units on waterworks and sewerage, investments in this area, these units would receive about PLN 221 million. There were also quite detailed questions about the significant financial strengthening of the I would also like to clarify here that this additional increase of PLN 200 million would concern the possibility of providing grants to a government agency, which is subject to the President of the Council of Ministers, namely the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. And this amount of PLN 200 million, as well as the amount of PLN 800 million transferred directly to the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, would be a total of PLN 1 billion for people with disabilities. These issues were negotiated by the government's representative for disabled persons, Minister Paweł Wdewik, and he was extremely grateful to the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency that he decided to undertake the tasks envisaged to strengthen the system of support for people with disabilities. So that the 200 million PLN in the Prime Minister's firm would be funds transferred to the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency as grants. Dear Marshal, High Senate, I ask you kindly to adopt both laws. We worked constructively at committee meetings. Legislative and substantive amendments have emerged. To a significant part of them, not all, the government side responded positively. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u46	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to a government representative related to the items on the agenda. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? There's already a lot of questions, so I'll be one at a time... Mr. Marshal Borusewicz is the first. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u47	Thank you. Minister, the amendment to the bill proposes to shift PLN 6 billion from tanks to health care. I'd like you to tell me if there was an earlier advance payment of 6 billion this year. 'Cause that's what it's all about. It will cause these tanks to be delivered earlier. Or is it just a prepayment that will reduce, let's assume, the next year's installment? Will these tanks come sooner?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u48	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u49	Dear Marshal, High Senate! The arms sector is characterised by the possibility of paying high advances. This is even contained in the provisions of the law itself. I will say that, as I remember correctly, when we planned this amount, the Ministry of National Defence indicated that this year the amount necessary for this tender was somewhere, I don't know, 1 billion 500 million or 1 billion 600 million. The remaining appropriations would be required in the following year. Would these tanks have been delivered earlier? It's more of a question for the Ministry of National Defense... I can tell you from last night's speech by Minister Błaszczak in Washington. But that's just the kind of media information I've heard. That these tanks may appear next year. But it's more like media information... There is no Minister and Senator Skurkiewicz among us, I see, who would be better... [[This information has been given several times, Minister. Information that the first batch of 250 tanks will hit next year.]] I heard that information, too. And in line with the needs of the MON, we have provided this amount for the current year and the year to come in the amount of PLN 6 billion 300 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u50	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask me a question... Senator Kwiatkowski is not in the O.R. Senator Janusz Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the four billion. In this Chamber, within the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, we once discussed that in order to meet the requirements of the EU directive in terms of achieving indicators for the analysis of agglomerations, we needed PLN 20.25 billion. Do these 4 billions give rise to this demand? Because it has appeared and is specifically aimed at this tup of investments. Or is it because Poland could pay penalties for failing to achieve these indicators and failing to comply with the EU Directive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u52	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Where did the need to strengthen local government units come from? It was a bottom-up initiative of local self-government units, concentrated in the Polish Rural Union. In the Ministry of Finance we held regular meetings with representatives of this relationship and for several years there have been demands to strengthen local government units with additional funds for investment. This is about rural communities, because the local government has made such arguments that even the increase in revenue from participation in taxes will not fill a certain infrastructure gap there, that these municipalities are in a trap and without additional resources, without some additional fund they simply will not be able to... They will be able to keep up to date, but they will not be able to fill the gaps in infrastructure. And this is the negotiations with the Rural Union of the Republic of Poland, with Mr Ivanik, with Mr Świętalski, with Mr Brygman, who for many years have been asking for the creation of such a fund. Partly this has been met by the first part of the Government Local Investment Fund, in which it was established, it can be said that the minimum level, so that the smallest units of local government could not get less than PLN 0.5 million. They asked for a legislative initiative to be prepared, a solution for the so-called. An investment voucher, that 1 million zloty. As far as this amount is concerned, budgetary opportunities have emerged this year. It is about the development of an area that seems to have been fully developed in the 21st century. Such a large gap between local government units should not take place. This is where I come to the conclusion. It was a bottom-up initiative, a consultation with the Ministry of Finance was conducted by the local government. However, we absolutely did not aim to carry out any tasks related to such a broader aspect of the possibility of paying penalties or failing to comply with some standards by Poland. It was just a bottom-up initiative of local government units that reported that they were not and would not be able to meet these needs themselves. And the second point is that the waterworks and the sewerage are, so to speak, the necessary things. I'm just going to give you some examples here. Well, when it comes to waterworks, the situation is, you can say, much better. The threshold adopted by the law is 90%, he is relatively high. If someone has less than 90% That's when he can apply for funding. Unfortunately, the sewage situation is much worse, here this threshold has been set at 60%. In any case, I confirm that it had nothing to do with any, you can say, international obligations. But if that's part of it, that's very good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u53	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for you about the data that you gave and that came up earlier. It's two numbers. One concerns the total amount of new budgetary revenue. That's 78,5 billion. You've estimated that there's about 4.6 billion due to inflation. This is 1/15. I don't know if it's okay... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: I'll say.]] If these are the other numbers, then please correct it, of course. Question: why do we have to explain, according to the opposition, that Poland is developing faster, that the economy is developing faster? Well, the opposition is trying to convince us that inflation is the only reason for this increase. Is that even true? Do we have to explain the extra income and the fact that we share it? That's the first line. Two. Could you introduce me, sir? 'Cause I'm afraid Senator Klein didn't present it. What is Poland's position compared to other countries, e.g. The European Union, when it comes to GDP growth? It is, of course, a percentage increase. We will then know whether we must be ashamed of this law or not, and where we are compared with other countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u55	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u56	Dear Marshal, High Senate! The information I provided about the income caused by the rise in inflation of 4.6 billion is information relating only to the additional revenue from the tax on goods and services which are, you can say, very closely correlated with the increase in prices, with inflation. Nevertheless, I will present two more figures: that tax revenues will be higher than planned by more than 55 billion, and the total estimated increase in tax revenues dependent on inflation, i.e. due to inflation, will amount to about PLN 9.2 billion. As for our position, I can present some data on economic growth. There are other indicators, but the senator asked about economic growth. I can say that the recession in Poland was one of the highest in the European Union. A few days ago, the CSO still corrected the data in favour and ultimately this decline in GDP in 2020 in Poland amounted to 2.5%. Before that, it was at 2.75%. and from this period comes data from the European Commission. In 2020 the euro area in general recorded a fall of 6.6%, the European Union 6.1% At that time in Poland, due to respect, because it is in the case of such estimates due to the consistency of the data that has to be presented, it was 2,7%. A slightly higher drop was e.g. in Sweden, it was 2.8% , Finland was also 2,8% , Estonia 2.9%. Ireland was a certain phenomenon, with an increase of 3.4% in 2020. Lithuania had a lower inheritance than Poland, it was less than 1%. As far as data are concerned, consistent growth figures of the European Commission in 2021 are concerned, the European Union average is around 4.2%. In Poland this was estimated at 4%. However, these figures, I think, are already very out of date, as the Ministry of Finance's forecast is very cautious, and it says an increase of 4.9% this year. and some international or market institutions report that this growth may exceed up to 5% this year. I would also like to point out that yesterday or today a central bank report was published, which points to the strong foundations of the Polish economy and speaks positively about fiscal actions taken during the pandemic. The World Bank, which is very cautious in its forecasts, also raises the forecast for this year to 4.5% and next year, inflation is projected to fall to 3.6%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u57	Thank you very much. Senator Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I will refer to the questions I asked the Senator of the committee. Namely, is the correct thesis that was made by Senator Kleina or the assumption... I would like the Minister to develop this, to say what was the issue of underestimating revenue on the budget when we adopted the state budget for 2021. Could it be foreseen that this budget is undervalued and, therefore, there was such an assumption that it could be revised or not during the financial year? And then there's the second line. I would like you to explain, to justify the need to harmonise the ownership structure of the Polish Railways company, because one of the objectives or ways of guaranteeing... the use of these funds is just to cover 100% shares in this company, which is de facto a company at the moment, let's call it, owned by the Polish State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u59	Dear Marshal, High Senate. Let me start with the second question, this is about strengthening railway companies with an amount of about 1 billion 250 million. I think that this question will be better answered by the Minister Andrzej Bittel, who is in charge of the railroad, who is with us in the Chamber. As regards underestimation of budgetary revenue, I have already addressed this in part. I was talking about how it was really hard to predict during this period. I even had such inquiries in May and provided information to the Polish Press Agency that, despite the pandemic, we will not correct the budget that these revenues are coming down, they are not at risk. But in March and April, I would be... At the time, I thought everything would be okay and I would be happy not to update the state budget, but in the opposite direction. In 2020, as you remember, there was an amendment that was caused by the fact that the income side could not be realised. Then we increased the deficit to the record deficit of PLN 109 billion. The actual amount amounted to less than PLN 85 billion. I absolutely cannot... disagree that the budget was deliberately undervalued, because it would be bad even for the Ministry of Finance, it would not be good to show a higher deficit and higher loan needs to finance it. Like I said, cautiously... You can't say it's an underestimation or some deliberate action. Indeed, at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance there were discussions about the amount of the payment from the profit of the National Bank of Poland. [[Voice from the room: In the Senate too.]] Yeah, yeah, in the Senate too, I'm pretty sure I can confirm that. There were even requests and appeals to the President of the National Bank of Poland to indicate some current forecast. I am almost obliged to act in such a way that I include in the state budget on the income side the information which the National Bank of Poland has provided regarding what the result estimates. I think it would be inappropriate, unreasonable, if the Minister of Finance refers to the data of the National Bank of Poland, an independent institution, and made some own forecasts. In conclusion, I will say that the budget was prepared on prudential assumptions and, as I said, probably in the middle of the compartment, rather than on the most pessimistic assumptions, which were demanded by the employers of Poland. And today we are talking about amending the budget law. The risk has materialized, but it's a risk, I think, in a positive sense.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u60	Thank you very much. [[Thank you. Mr. Marshal, then I'd ask Minister Bittel to...]] You're welcome. Yes, of course. [[...on these railway companies, because the Minister here suggested that the answer to my first question...]] Yes, of course. You're already a minister... [[I would very much ask you to give the floor to the Minister.]] I'd like you to give the speaker to the Minister for a moment. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The answer to this question is among the objectives to which these measures are intended. One objective is the implementation of the National Railway Programme by 2023, the second objective is the implementation of the railway programme. The movement consisting of recapitalisation of PLK or redemption of PKP PLK shares held by PKP constitutes the achievement of these objectives. The side effect is to improve the level of ownership of the State Treasury directly in the company PKP PLK, but this is not a key and fundamental objective, although on the other hand we must keep in mind And I'm sure all the senators have it in their minds. The 2001 Act, which entered into force in 2001, on the privatisation and commercialisation of the state-owned company PKP... that one of its objectives was to organise the ownership situation of railway companies. It's been 20 years and there's not been a complete order yet. As it will happen, then as part of the ownership processes, the PKP will again include a stake in PLK due to land exchange or to the supply of land under railway lines, and not only. Then the level of holding of shares directly by the State Treasury will decrease, but there are further tranches of recapitalisation and we want this level of holding of shares directly by the State Treasury to be quite high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. The question is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My question is, do you remember... Because the Minister is quoting what the employers said here. I'm going back to the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, where we talked about the budget. If the Minister doesn't remember, I'd like to say that, of course, I'm not signing any such assessment that it was done on purpose. The Minister immediately said that he was conservative and cautious in the construction of the budget. ♪ But I'll remind you ♪ And the question is whether the Minister is Hey, hey, hey, hey, The fact that we talked not only about income from the National Bank of Poland, but also about others, as I will say in my speech, that we talked about the fact that we should consider whether these tax revenues are not too low, because too much understatement also has a negative impact. And I would ask you to include this voice of ours. Do you remember that? As far as the NBP is concerned. And second question. Minister, would it be possible... Because today I listened to Professor Leg talking about the overall impact on the budget. He estimated that over the whole year these revenues to the budget would be at the level of PLN 19.20 billion, he estimated it so. Today you say it will be about 10 billion, 9.6 billion PLN. Would it be possible for the Minister to submit in writing such information as you estimate? Because it would be interesting for me to compare it to what you're doing to Professor Leg. Where is he suddenly getting $19 billion, and the Minister calculates that this is $9.6 billion? If that were possible...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u64	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u65	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I can say that I remember these talks in the Senate committee about the budget bill for 2021. But as far as I remember, it's probably to recreate the amounts that we discussed... The senator's side said that they could be bigger and the amendments were proposed, but they were incomparably lower than the amount we are talking about now. It was... I remember that a similar discussion was in the Seym, and in the Senate, and concerned only 2 cases: a several-billion-dollar increase in the NBP's return and a few billion-dollar increase in VAT revenues. These were not the amounts that we are talking about now and which are subject to revision. With regard to the inflation forecast, whether due to growth or other factors, yes, we are able to prepare this simulation and, of course, transmit it in writing on request.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u66	The question is Senator Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u67	Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the substantive statement... [[Cell phone signal]] I'm sorry. ...as opposed to Senator Froze, who was more propagandist than he was speaking in substance. So thanks a lot. And thanks for the forecasts you've done well. You risked it and it was worth it. And here's an estimate, because there were more pessimistic forecasts, and you've been able to predict that, so respect for that. And thank you for saying that this high economic growth that we're all enjoying... It is not that the opposition is not happy, and the rulers are happy, because everyone is glad that we have managed to deal with this crisis, but the question is whether we could do even better. Such a question could be asked, because economic growth in Poland is at a decent level, which depends on what you said, to a large extent on the structure of the Polish economy: we are close to the German border, there is an influx of investors. What is happening in the country largely depends on the structure of the economy, and this structure has allowed us to go through the crisis more gently. But I'll get to the specific question. Tell me about the $4 billion investment... And here's an estimate, if it really is what you said it would be an algorithm for the allocation of these funds, unlike the Government Local Investment Fund. Well, it's going to be huge progress, and it's a big plus. But my question... When it comes to local governments and this discussion that took place here, it was mostly going in one direction, as were our questions and doubts, among others. My goal was that due to tax cuts, which we are all happy about, in local governments will disappear, according to various estimates, approx. 26 and 28% current income. And those four billion investments... I'm not gonna develop it, and I'm gonna do it very nicely, no problem, but it's investment money. Local governments primarily care about current income, which involves maintaining schools, roads, etc., etc. Did you count, together with the Joint Committee of the Government and the Local Government, with organizations, even with the Polish City Union, or is this PLN 8 billion sufficient to cover the losses related to tax reduction, losses in current income? Well, as far as investments are concerned, it's cool because you can take credit for your own contribution, you can make investments or you can refrain from doing them. But when we run out of school support for the current issues of maintaining the city, then there's a tragedy. Therefore, our views, mine and my colleagues representing the government in the Senate, were connected with the fact that we as former self-governments would prefer to increase the income of local governments e.g. by participating in taxes. You want to give us that money. Okay. Good. The question is, is this $8 billion enough to cover the losses of current influences? If that's enough, it's okay. If not enough, then the question is what the local governments will do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u68	Dear Marshal, High Senate! We have estimated revenues related to CIT, PIT and subsidy for local government units, and I can say here, from this place, that the total amount that was adopted in the draft budget law for 2022 will be higher, after the effects of the Polish Government, than the amount that local government units themselves, so to speak, have forecasted in the May forecast. Here, from here, I can say that it is. This additional 8 billion will be used to supplement PIT losses. According to our simulation, which we have made available to the local government, the losses are estimated at a really small amount compared to what the local government units themselves would have planned with CIT and PIT, because per hundred Several million zlotys. I can also say here that at the second meeting of the Council of Ministers concerning the draft budget law for 2022, this amount was secured by an additional amount. So if someone was losing on this expected CIT and PIT, they could still make adjustments using the general subsidy reserve. In my opinion, the funds that will be transferred to the local government for 2022, but including those 8 billion, which will also be included in the surplus and can be used to cover the potential shortage of current resources, will be sufficient. The local government has such a simulation prepared by the Ministry of Finance, and it shows that local government units, including even large cities The biggest charge here was that they'd lose very big cities. They come out in plus compared to their forecasts. As I recall, the level of Warsaw following recent amendments to the draft budget law adopted by the Council of Ministers is about 160 million in plus, as regards estimated revenues from CIT and PIT, taking into account this compensation. This compensation of 8 billion will also be divided by a statutory algorithm. It is a provision of a law that the High Senate will also discuss, which you will be discussing. Of course, there will also be adjustments due to the so-called. the wealth index, however, as I said here, Warsaw, if I remember correctly, thanks to these 2 estimated impacts with compensation would have 160 million on the plus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u69	Thank you very much. That was the last question. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that there is no possibility to submit applications for rejection of the Law amending the Budget Law for 2021. First, please take the floor of Senator Paul Arndt.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, all budget debates are political. What one side praises, the other side criticizes. That's what happened in the past, that's what happened today, that's probably gonna happen in the future. Today we are discussing an amendment to the budget law. The amendments to the budget law in the past were rare. Governments rarely decided to amend the budget law because they thought it would be a certain dishonor for them, that it would be a certain concession for them. Well, that indicates that the budget was wrongly prepared. And so it is in this case. This budget Despite what we have heard here from the Minister's mouth, despite this conservative approach It has not been prepared precisely enough. Of course, in the case of the budget, there is no possibility to estimate the state's revenue by a million or even a billion zlotys. But the difference this year is significant. These revenues are growing, as we have talked about several times here, about PLN 78,5 billion. Compared to planned income, this is almost 1/5. Well, it's not just any difference, it's not a few percent, as it used to be, but it's almost 1/5. As for the around budget law, I would like to say here that I have already made this view from this stand The around budget law should not be at all. But this is not an accusation against the rulers, because the budget bill has always been and so far. If we had properly established law, a law that would be stable, there would be no need to formulate around budget laws for the budgetary law. The explanatory memorandum to the Budget Act states that the budget was prepared in the middle of the year and therefore it was difficult to properly estimate the macroeconomic indicators on the basis of which the budget was prepared. That's what you've been talking about, Senator, the applicant for the minority application. Well, let's just remember that the budget was actually being prepared in the middle of the year, but after that, the whole budget adoption procedure started. The government had to file a draft budget bill by the end of September, because that is the law, but then there was parliamentary work. First in the Seym, then in the Senate It was possible to correct this budget. I would like to say that even this amendment that we are discussing today went to the Senate and, first, to the Sejm, with the self-correction. On 22 September, the government submitted a proposal for an amendment, and 28 or 29 of the amendment. There were no obstacles to making such a self-correction in order to make appropriate corrections in the course of the Parliament's work. I just want to remind you that the budget was finally adopted in mid-January. We have often talked about the fact that the Senate has tabled some adjustments to the revenue adjustment. It really wasn't that different. And you spoke to the Minister about what's coming from the current data. These were not a few dozen-billion-dollar differences, but during the Senate, we adopted a number of amendments that adjusted the revenue that these revenues increased. They, of course, in the Seym, so to speak, were rejected with one button. Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of income, we have already talked about this a lot here. It is once underestimating these revenues, and two indeed this issue of inflation, which also raises doubts. Did she bring 10 billion extra funds or 20? However, it was additional resources. It's a matter of CO2 emissions that, unfortunately, will affect our pockets when it comes to electricity prices next year. This is also what we have already discussed here, the question of estimating income, profit of the National Bank of Poland. Well, let me remind you that 95% of that profit goes to the budget. And that, too, was wrongly estimated, even though we insisted that this data be corrected. So that all of this has resulted in this budget being revised today. What's important? The fact that this amendment somehow deepens, so to speak, the impreciseness of the budget. The budget hasn't been very clear for a long time, and what's happening now is also clouding the budget. Yeah, we're still pushing expenses out there out of the budget. The funds are addressed to funds which, after all, implement expenditure not during this financial year but over the next few years. We finance expenses from bonds. All kinds of reserves are growing General reserve, special provisions. We've talked a lot about unexploded expenses here today. Well, that's actually a problem. The Minister said that once there was a Finance Act, which said that this expenditure could be implemented by June, but recently it has been changed and unexpired expenditure should be implemented by March, and it would be best if these unexpired expenditures were not at all. By the end of March this is still some reasonably reasonable and rational. But by the end of November, Minister? Well, actually, these are the expenses that charge the next year, and you just have to put them in the budget account next year. And then there wouldn't be a problem. As far as income is concerned, income increases by PLN 36.5 billion this year through this amendment. We do not criticize some of these income, and we believe that they are good. For example, what we were just talking about is the issue of local governments and 12 billion PLN. Is that enough? Well, I don't think so. I think we're going to talk more about this when we're discussing the next item in this room today. But still, 12 billion zlotys is a good step. Similarly, increases for the budgetary area. Those are the right measures, too. You can probably look for other positive changes. There is no longer a Minister of Infrastructure, but here I am thinking about resources for road or rail infrastructure. Well, as long as these funds are rationally spent. Because I have this example, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of rail infrastructure... There was a repair of the Poznan line Warsaw, which lasted several years and cost nice several billion zlotys. Only that 20 years ago, from Poznań to Warsaw, two and a half hours went by, and today, after spending several billion zlotys, you drive 3 hours 15 minutes. So if we spend money on infrastructure like this, it's not gonna be the best solution. Of course, there are other expenses that raise greater doubts. I mentioned the reserves in the state budget here. Well, the general reserve is growing by PLN 100 million. This reserve was bigger than ever, at PLN 500 million. Now it's growing by another 100 million zlotys. And she can be spent in very different ways. In the past, there have also been considerable doubts about the reasonableness of spending these funds. Purpose reserve of PLN 32 billion. Well, I don't think it should be or shouldn't be. I'd go a little overboard if I didn't. 'Cause it also shows some blackheads trying to hide money in the budget in many, many cases. And if our laws were different, those reserves might not be there. Yeah, but there's a huge amount of $32 billion. That's not enough, we're increasing that by another 600 million. During the committee's work, we discussed with the Minister... The special provisions should be spent by 15 October. The bill we are talking about will not enter into force by October 15. And we're increasing the target reserves. The Minister said that there are reserves that do not have to be spent by 15 October, and that it is so, but there is also the possibility that the Council of Ministers or the Minister of Finance will change this deadline with the agreement of the Parliament's Finance Committee, perhaps there will be some reshuffling here again, which, in my opinion, should not be entirely the case. So it's also a matter that raises doubts. And then there's the last thing I don't want to talk about too much, i.e. This is our proposal to transfer money from tanks to health care. This is probably the thing we're going to talk about here, but I'm going to say that we're in a situation where we should think more about health, about the problem we're facing. After all, in the past year 480,000 Poles died, there was probably 140 thousand deaths oversized. This isn't right. As far as defence is concerned, this is an extremely important issue, but I think that health is now more important than tanks that will be bought abroad, so the Polish industry will gain nothing or almost nothing from it. Ladies and gentlemen, that's actually what I'd like to say. The government has submitted a draft budget for the next year by the end of September, and the Sejm will be working on this budget in a moment. It is only to be expected that this budget will be a little more transparent and that further amendments and changes will not need to be made to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Małecka-Libera, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I would very much like to support all those who have worked in the budget committee and have decided to report and vote on the amendment to increase health funding of 6 billion 300 million. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there is a more important goal and a more important challenge right now than health care. There are two elements to this. The first is an undoubted pandemic that started more than a year ago, which has not yet left us and we do not know what the result will be. The pandemic caused an incredible havoc, causing 75,000 so-called. over-normative deaths, but also caused a huge health disaster. This is indeed a disaster. The effect of this has also been here, in Warsaw, on the streets for a month There are protesters here for health workers. I draw attention to the fact that for the first time in history the protest is a protest of all medical professions. It's not one professional group protesting to get a higher salary, it's protesting all the health care that's screaming that there's no strength, that there's no support, and that no one wants to help her. I think it's a big lack of power and a big failure also from the Ministry of Health, that for a month no one has taken concrete solutions and did not take this protest very seriously, as he deserves. If protesters say that there are no hands to work, if another unit is closed due to lack of medical personnel, if the helicopter lands in the city centre, because there is no ambulance service, it really proves that the system is falling apart. If the Ministry of Health does not see this problem, if the government, the Prime Minister does not want to participate in talks with the medical staff, then in my opinion it is a cheek for people who have worked very hard and worked, saving lives and health of people, especially during the epidemic. Respect and discussion, which will solve this problem, are undoubtedly very important, all the more so as we hear that the budget is well, that there will be an additional amendment with the distribution of funds, that money has appeared, that there is an economic miracle and the boom of the economy. How are those people on the street supposed to understand their situation? Are you trying to tell them that they're not needed, that they're to leave, as they said in the Seym? Is that what you think you're signing? If not, it is now an opportunity to say that health is indeed a priority, that we want to support health protection and that we also want to help patients. This isn't just about the medical staff. First of all, the point is that we have completely reduced access to health services. All the health indicators have deteriorated throughout the last year, which was due to lower access to doctors, reduced procedures, reduced diagnostics. Now all these people, very often already at an advanced stage of disease, go back to the health care system and we have duplicated the number of benefits that should be provided at this point in time. This is a huge task for health protection, as well as a terrible trauma for all patients who are looking for help. That's why the six billion we're asking for... I ask the High House to give you all a really deep thought. If the health situation does not radically improve and there will be no concrete solutions that will in the longer term result in improvement, it will end in a disaster for patients. They really will be the victims for which we all will ultimately respond if we do not spend specific, large money on health care. There is much talk about the fact that health expenditure has recently increased, that the National Health Fund budget has increased. Yes. It has grown thanks to our work and our economy, not through the budget revenue that was planned under the 6% Act. GDP. The Law on minimum public spending assumed that in 2020 9 billion would be paid from the state budget to the National Health Fund. How much did it cost? Zero. Poland spends a year on health care per capita 44% appropriations spent for this purpose in the European Union, even though our GDP per capita is 71% the European Union average. What does that mean? This means that the priority for the current government is not health, that it is possible to identify resources and transfer them to health protection and to improve access to health services, but there is no such principle. Nor is it true that the share of GDP in health is rising. Health expenditure for the entire financial sector in 2019 was 4.9%. Although spending from the National Health Fund is increasing, it turns out that the number of procedures that are financed by these funds is not increasing and in some areas even decreasing, such as. in the case of access to a specialist. From year to year private spending increases, the amounts that patients with their own pockets add to the system in order to be able to reach the doctor. And we're not talking here. only to increase the financing of private treatment, measures for some extra, additional procedures or the possibility of better, modern procedures. We're talking about daily expenses simply because in the public system, a patient can't get to a doctor. And that's why year by year these expenses are increasing. In 2020 it increased by more than 2.5 billion PLN; in total there are already more than 40 billion, which from private pockets affect the health system. And yet you have said how important the public sector is and that all resources and forces will be directed to public health protection so that people with the lowest incomes can be shielded. These inequalities over the past 2 years, especially during the epidemic period, are growing significantly, in a significant way, and all this leads to a health disaster. I therefore appeal to you: if we are talking about the health priority, if we are saying that health protection is important, if we respect health workers who have really worked very hard, who have shown us how to work and how to fight an unknown opponent, what a virus was, if we want to respect them, then let us all vote together in favour of this amendment. After all, this amendment will not reduce this financial resources so much, because it amounts to just a little more than PLN 6 billion. However, if these measures enter the National Health Fund, they will significantly increase the number and availability of health benefits. I don't want to convince you any more, that's all I've said. I think the value of health, access to a doctor, health protection especially in this catastrophic post-pandemic period... People who have been on strike for a month are asking for understanding and support. It also deserves our support. Please vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u73	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The state budget is always a certain picture of government policy in the country. What was going on here in the debate was that the opposition would be happy if things were bad... Once again, I'd like to put it down and say, please don't tell such foolish things. One of the senators said it at the committee meeting and said it again today. Anything good, which is beneficial for Poles, for the Polish economy, for Polish health, education, investment, local governments, pleases each of us. We point out those elements that need to be considered, those that need to be improved so that indicators are even better. Senator Czerwiński said that the issue of numbers is the foundation of the budget. That's right, Mr. Senator, which is why I'd like to fill in some of the points that you've been asking and which the Minister hasn't told me. They're fresh, so maybe the minister hasn't noticed them yet. Eurostat has published this today, I do not know when it has published the latest data on GDP, economies in the European Union. It is to be welcomed that the Polish economy will have 4,8% in 2021, as is estimated today. GDP growth. That's a good thing, but it's exactly the EU average. We're about 13 o'clock. Fifteenth place. I'm not saying the best are 7.8%. Because we could have 2.3%, just like Greece. This is not a cause for concern, but it should be considered whether something can be done in Poland better to have 7,8%. And that's our contribution to the discussion. I think we very much appreciate the Minister, who can talk and listen, make his arguments, we disagree many times, but we talk about it. Now that we're saying today that GDP growth is about 5%, why isn't it 7%? ? You know why it's not 7%. ? If the level of investment vis-à-vis GDP, especially private investment, were in Poland as before 2015, we would have had a GDP growth of 7%. , and even 9%. So why aren't entrepreneurs investing at this level in Poland? Because they're investing, it's not like they're not investing at all. They do not do so because you have a specific policy on both legal stability and financial stability. What you are proposing as part of the Polish Government in terms of finance... Well, it's very beneficial to lower taxes, start a tax-free amount, that's a move that I'm sure will meet with applause. But speaking of which, we had one of the most complicated tax systems in Poland. And it is judged this way not only by the opposition, but above all by credit rating agencies, and today we will complicate it even more, I suspect that investment in Poland will not increase. We're gonna be that middleman, based on consumption and, for now, export. I'm glad there's so much. But our concern, our question is always this: shouldn't we do a lot of things that will bring the investments back to the previous level? As regards the issue of the planned income mentioned by the Minister, we remember that the Minister said that we wanted to conduct a very careful, conservative policy on income and expenditure. And, of course, our discussion was this: Minister, we should consider, because revenue will probably be higher. It was not just a matter of feeling, but of certain indicators. Let me just remind you, Minister, that in 2020 VAT revenues amounted to PLN 187 billion and you planned PLN 181 billion. Well, it was known that this was a very low level when it comes to plans. But it's like the slightest problem... Otherwise: this is a problem, because of course it is better to plan when it comes to spending, especially investment expenditure... Because please note: very well that a system of aid for local governments is being launched, these 12 billion zlotys, without distinguishing between which poops It's divided. This is very good, only that this amount goes to them now, i.e. in the preparation of expenditure is a year of delay. Doing it through subsidies, well, thank God that subsidies, according to objective criteria... I hope so, because we have a memory... Minister, please accept that. As far as what has been shared so far for investments in local governments, I encourage the Minister, the Government, to read the report by Professor Flis, who is not in favour of a specific political option. He shows that you have divided the money into investments for local governments in the ratio of 10:1, such were disparities. Therefore, there are our concerns and we prefer because of the stability of local governments, and you say that you are in favour of a stable state, also of local governments, in terms of income stability... And it's not about any special preferences. The point is to make it predictable to cover current expenditure. It is very good that money is being mobilised for investment funds, because local governments together with the government will create a certain investment policy, but what concerns the current operation should be income tax. And now the issue of distribution of this surplus. Because the budget is closed, he functioned, people were more or less satisfied, some more, some less. Well, it's like any budget, whether it's a family budget or a state budget. And now here comes what's related to the correction. I imagined that you would take into account the foundations of the state that decided our future. One of these foundations is health. The senator said something about health. I'll just say that yesterday at the committee meeting we asked the Minister, Deputy Minister Skurkiewicz, what is the level of the amounts, the money in the army modernisation fund. It was said that today there is an amount of PLN 175 billion in the account to be spent, and that this amount is over PLN 6 billion which is planned. So it's easy to put 124 billion PLN on all health care with over 170 billion to buy abrams and weapons. Well, I thought that what comes from the correction should be devoted to foundations such as the one. The health Senator Malecka-Libera was talking about. And there's no education here at all. Yet all wise countries want to have healthy and well-educated citizens, and there are other elements. Senator Rusiecki, as a member of the defence committee and a defence enthusiast, will say that the most important issue is defence. I respect that. But our wisdom should be that we should be able to middle it up. Because there is nothing more important than health and wisdom, and the other things are a derivative of these 2 values. You can't see it in this correction. This is why we say that this correction should be made, among other things. For these pillars. Well, it's a good thing that there's so much money to invest, because I don't think the Minister mentioned that there's another 10 billion for the Road Fund and the Railway Fund. This is also a good move, because it will create and drive investment. And what is related to the increase in the fund of modernization of the army, apart from the fact that there is a very important element of the growth of defence capabilities and security of Poland, the Polish economy will certainly not drive, well, probably, that is my conviction. If we are talking about budget issues, corrections and the construction itself, please note Senator Arndt mentioned that. That a penny of that money goes to the funds. This is not the best budget legibility. It's not the best, to put it mildly, to read the budget. The most important thing is that we correct the budget up in a year. But on such a scale? Not in my personal opinion. It was an ultra-conservative budget, but it's better to correct up than down, which is what we agree with you. But please note that there are elements like inflation. We differ in the knowledge of whether inflation makes it 10 billion PLN more or 20 billion PLN, as Prof. Nowak says. What do you mean there's $10 billion more? Where did this come from? There was a question here for the senator where the money came from. This is the money drawn out of each of the taxpayers' pockets. That extra $10 billion you're talking about is coming out of each and every one of us's pockets. Well, we sell CO2 certificates for 13 billion zlotys. I thought we were going to spend billions on what is related to improving the efficiency of Polish energy in its entirety or on health, and If you don't mind, I'm gonna use the reference to him. We want to allocate half of this amount to those 175 billion zlotys that we already have in the army modernisation fund. We'll add another six billion zlotys or they'll come in handy. Of course they'll come in handy. After all, the army will consume every amount of money because the defense is endless when it comes to spending. This is not only the case in Poland, there is no end to the world's defence in terms of expenditure. And it must be borne in mind that when we build a budget, we need to ensure a certain level of security for all areas, but as we divide the surplus, we need to share it according to certain priorities. And I'll read here... I asked the Minister, and the Minister... I'm skipping out on the good stuff because I've already replaced them, like local government units... Well, the Armed Forces Fund, the Polish Police Fund, the Border Guard Fund, the Fire Department Fund... These are the main directions to which the money goes in this correction budget. Also two words, Minister, about the incentive fund. Well, it's a good thing that some of this money goes back to people who have frozen this fund, only that when it comes to the actions themselves, it would have to be considered why not the salary increase and the incentive fund. Well, I dare suspect things, but that's the question to be answered: why does the government propose a special prize fund for the whole area, not a salary increase? I'm not going to talk about my feelings about why you do it, but any of you can answer that question. To conclude, I would like to say this: I hope that this most important amendment that we have tabled will be supported by you. Not because, Senator, in order to reduce the value of the defence contract, in general, but to protect Poland from what is called excessive mortality, to increase health availability. And we forget about such an important sphere as education, which is completely unnoticed in correction. I hope, Minister, that in the budget for 2022, these two areas... that you will begin with these two areas, as a government, to put together a budget. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u75	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think this debate has shown us a lot about the condition of our economy and the condition of the Polish state. On the one hand, this is good news that we have budget surpluses because we can carry out various tasks that have been impossible to carry out in the budgetary form so far. On the other hand, it was not by chance during our discussion that so many questions were asked about the source of the increased revenue and whether it was possible to predict that the budget for this submission, which came out of Parliament when the budget law was adopted... could it be predicted that the revenue for the state budget would be higher. I think the last question can be answered in the affirmative. The Minister indirectly admitted that the option was chosen as a centre option, i.e. not the kind of business environment that entrepreneurs expected, that this budget would be so careful, and that some hurricane version was not adopted. Centered. And I think it's a good strategy to keep some precision and some reality on public finances issues. Nevertheless, what saddens me, I think, millions of Poles at the moment And it's getting more and more common. This is one of the sources of an increase in budgetary revenue and this is the source of inflation. So, in fact, this is about increasing revenue to the state budget for VAT, for example. And I can say that during talks with voters in my constituency, in northern Mazowsze, the Ciechan subregion, and these are largely agricultural areas... In fact, this situation doesn't look funny. People complain, above all, about rising energy prices, fuel prices, building materials costs. Ladies and gentlemen, steel, wood, building materials... That's not an increase of 10%. These are increases often, in some assortments, by several hundred percent. Services costs, living costs, food costs This really is a serious challenge. And for farmers, for example, the cost of fertilizer... Tona about PLN 3 thousand. It's already causing a lot of tension in the country. So, on the one hand, it can be said that, from the point of view of the immanently understood budget, inflation is of course beneficial, because without the adoption of a new tax planner, de facto outside the parliament, just as spontaneously, due to inflation mechanisms... And what they are, this is a separate topic for discussion. Well, on the one hand, it's good. On the other hand, inflation, which has already reached over 5%, as we have recently read, has negative effects in the form of social feelings and what really remains in the taxpayer's pocket, in the pocket of the citizen. I would like to draw your attention. 'Cause maybe it's a little abstract 'cause some economists estimate inflation could get up to 7%. I stress: I hope that this will not happen, but if this happened in December, then it could be said graphically that we work for free for almost a month a year. Well, I'm already talking so graphically, simplifying the economics. This shows the scale of the phenomenon. I would like to point out that inflation is particularly affected by people with relatively low income, because certain cost of living is objective. Well, someone who lives somewhere has to pay for the electricity, they have to pay for the gas, otherwise it's cut off, they have to pay for the water, they have to pay for the waste water, they have to pay for the garbage, they have to pay for the handling fees for the administration of the premises, if they belong to the community. It's also a cost. He has to pay for the food, he has to pay for the medicine. These are the basic articles that are essential to life. Where there are very low income per person in the family, this is a very difficult situation. A person who has a high income can complain about inflation for various reasons, may complain that its savings are losing value, but this is a completely different level of problems than those with the lowest income. And that is why, from this point of view, I am very pleased that the National Bank of Poland, in which so far supporters of interest rates increase were in a minority, at the moment modified their attitude a little. Well, yesterday there was a five-fold increase in this base rate, with 0.1%. Up to 0.5%. So there was a five-fold increase. It may not be noticeable, spectacular, but it shows that the problem is beginning to be noticed. Because this problem is serious. And that is why, on the occasion of the revision of the budget, I am addressing Mr Skuza from this stand. After all, in a moment we will be working on the state budget for 2022. We know that this budget is ready, but a strange fact in the Seym is still not considered. And I will remind the High House that in this respect... It can be said that time is running out because Parliament, as we know, has 120 days to consider the budget law under the Constitution. If we hadn't made the budget bill by that date, then the president could have disbanded the parliament. It's just a voice for what I said. Here's another thing. I am very pleased that, as part of these changes that have been proposed, there will be, as I understand it, a recapitalisation of the railways. Nevertheless, I have some remarks here, I am quite skeptical. Well, I think that the process of modernising railway lines, complementing their grids, is at a disproportionately worse stage than in the case of road transport, circular transport. As far as road investments are concerned, it can be said that many of these investments are ongoing, although the railroad, which is both ecological and, on the assumption, cheaper than circular transport... Well, in this respect, these investments do not really go as impressive as they should go, the more that rail needs to be modernised. I hope that there will be speeding up in this regard, because this is important for the quality of life of citizens. From that bleacher... I have already pointed out to Minister Bittel in the roundabout discussion that, for example, there are regions in northern Mazovia that are well communicated by rail, but there are also significant areas which are unfortunately excluded from communication. It would be worthwhile here, especially in terms of the development of regional networks... Here I am thinking about a good line from Warsaw to Płońska, about the possibility of accessing Płońska or Płock. I am also thinking about the railway branch from Ciechanów to Przasnysz. These are important railway arteries, which have a significant social dimension for northern Mazovia, but also a very important economic dimension. High Izbo, now the fundamental issue that appears on this occasion. This is a dispute in the Chamber concerning over PLN 6 billion and the proposal to shift funds to health protection from the Army modernisation programme. This is indeed a very serious and difficult dilemma. With regard to social expectations, it is undoubtedly a matter of health care, access to medical services... This is topic number 1 in the public debate in Poland, particularly aggravated during the pandemic, related to the generally known difficulties that have happened to us in connection with it, and many dramatic events. On the other hand, in the light of what is happening on the eastern border, in view of the overall situation that is being outlined, it is clear that perhaps not so popular socially or even less popularly, an ambitious programme to modernise the army and to spend significant amounts of public money for this purpose may be less enthusiastic. The High House is so that we can put health and safety at stake, both areas of great importance for our community life, and so that we can find a balance. Hence my question during the debate with Senator Kleina. whether the applicants for the transfer of these 6 billions have not considered finding the means to strengthen the health section... to obtain these funds from other areas. In total, there are dozens or even more than 20 areas to which the budget will be allocated after the revenue has been increased. Perhaps there could be some consensus on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u77	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know if we're trying to make such an easy, confrontational maneuver that I'm going to talk about: the health of the tanks. With all due respect to the great effort of all those who create Polish health care and work hard at the last, very difficult time, also at the expense of their health... This effort is worthy of the utmost recognition. But if I look more closely at this area, I'm going to say that it's not that the financial resources are not directed there. I would like to remind you that between 2015 and now the budget for health expenditure has increased from 72 billion PLN to more than 120 PLN. Progress is considerable. What should I warn you about such a confrontational view: the health of tanks? Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about tanks. It is about the security of our fellow countrymen, as well as security in this part of Europe and the world. We are a very important pillar of the North Atlantic Alliance. It is worth noting that these difficulties concern different areas, including the area of security. You have mentioned in some speeches what is happening at the moment on the eastern front of NATO, the threats that already exist in the east. After the massive collapse of the Polish security system and the Polish army at the beginning of the 1990s, when, you can say, the Polish Armed Forces were in a deep defense... Well, it is also worth mentioning that after the reign of PO and PSL, when many units were liquidated, the military's personal condition decreased to less than 100 thousand. For five years, the Armed Forces, among others. through a programme of modernization of the Armed Forces, they are being rebuilt. This, of course, is a great effort of the state budget. This is the effort of our citizens, who want the budget to be spent to a large extent on the security and reconstruction of the Polish army. In recent years, the direction has been indicated to rebuild 4. Division in the eastern part of the country. 18. The Siedlce Division is being rebuilt with great effort. One of the armored crews, which is located in Lublin, will be rebuilt for the security of Poland, Polish borders, especially eastern borders, but also for the security of the eastern NATO flank. It is so that allies help those who build their strength. We must rebuild our strength, and only then will we be able to count on the support of allies. Is there a price... Is it possible to compare... I'll surprise Senator Czarnobaj here. I do not mean to prefer something, but to build a holistic system, to ensure that health care functions well with great effort, and that the Polish army does not stop to support the Polish Armed Forces. Therefore, I believe that this 6 billion PLN is needed to recreate the potential of armored weapons, a brigade of mechanized Polish army. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true what is often repeated in such a circular opinion that funds for modernisation go only abroad. The truth is that more than 60% of the funds for modernising the army are left in Polish companies, among others. in the Polish Armed Forces Group. We don't need to look far: during the last international salon in Kielce, the Armed Province on behalf of the Polish Armed Forces signed an agreement with the Polish Armed Group for the implementation of a short-range system of PLN 50 billion to PLN 60 billion in the next 10 years. These are measures that will serve the security of Polish citizens. We must not forget this when it is so easy to build a confrontation between health and these proverbial tanks... It's about safety. Health, of course, has its weight and here great effort is being made. Such an effort is also needed in order to rebuild, modernise Polish Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u79	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Today we are talking about amending the budget law, increasing budget revenue, improving macroeconomic indicators. We can argue how much this improvement is from different sources, but there are indicators or figures that describe very strongly the state of the economy and, above all, the state of life for people. I've got some data in front of me on the iPad from July this year. Source: Eurostat. It's about the unemployment rate. According to this EU methodology, which is even more restrictive, Poland has a unemployment rate of 3.4%. This is the third lowest unemployment rate. Only the Czech Republic, the Netherlands and Malta have a little less unemployment ahead of us. Behind us are all the other 26 countries of the European Union... Well, except for Poland, of course. Germany is behind us, but also Italy, Spain or Greece. The average in the Union is almost 7%. We have unemployment twice as low as the EU average. Why am I presenting this indicator to you? Because it's such an indicator, a basic indicator that everywhere in developed countries shows that the economy is in a good position, that people have jobs. And today this level of unemployment in Poland is the lowest in history, the lowest since 1990, since we start studying... I'm not talking about the indicator and the situation before 1989. This is the measure of success of economic policy, which has been conducted in Poland for 6 years. And this is the measure of success, the beneficiaries of which are Poles. Because all these indicators, the different ones that are exchanged, they're just indicators... This one says that people just have a job. That's one thing. Secondly, wages are rising The average wage increases, the pay in health care increases, the minimum wage increases, the hourly rate increases. Someone might ask: why are there protests in health care? The absent Senator Małecka-Libera was talking about it. Of course, people's expectations are always greater. If you want to move the money that the government has proposed today, In this, well, small amount of PLN 6 billion for the modernisation of the Armed Forces in a situation of enormous threat and instability, which are on our eastern border, in a situation where today, perhaps even you say that Poland is meeting with a hybrid war, one of the forms of such a war, unfortunately from the east... Until a few years ago, we didn't think it would happen so quickly and in this form. That's why the money one of the senators was talking about here, too. I don't know if it's Senator Czarnobaj, I don't want to mention his name anymore, but I think so. That $2.7 billion to the police, to the Border Guard. Yeah, we're also giving money to be safe. We're putting money on the military, on the Border Guard, on the police. We're doing this because, unfortunately, we're the target of an attack. Maybe it's not a classic war, but it's also a question of what's gonna happen in a couple of years if it goes that way. So that we must strengthen our military and military and police services, which costs money. It's expensive. Security costs, ladies and gentlemen. However, let us remember that we in parallel, and not actively, but in a lasting way, in a fundamental way, propose that spending on health care should increase. It is within the framework of the Polish Government that we propose that in 2027 these expenditures should amount to more than PLN 215 billion in the NFZ and reach a level of 7%. Is that a lot? That's it, that's 7%. how much the average countries in the European Union will spend. And what do we propose, ladies and gentlemen? I'm about to check on Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, who said that we need to increase spending on health care. Well, at the next Senate meeting and earlier at the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, next week I wonder how Senator Czarnobaj will vote, we'll see. We will adopt changes in tax law that will reduce revenue to the state budget and increase revenue to the National Health Fund. This will be the result of a tax-deductibility of a health contribution of 7,75%. This money will reduce revenue to the state budget, will reduce revenue to the budget of local government units, but will increase revenue to the National Health Fund. To improve the functioning of health care. And we'll see how those senators who say today that we need to increase the money for health care will be voting in two weeks when a concrete transfer of money is made. As I said, you gentlemen and ladies, including Senator Blackbay... I'm sorry, not Czarnobaj, but Kleina, who was the Senator of the Solidarity Election Action. It was you who introduced the insurance system into health care, not budget, but insurance, which provided a copy of the funds that Poles had to pay for health care. We propose a permanent, fundamental mechanism for increasing the contribution, and hence an increase in revenues to health care, not an accidental, individual transfer of money. Are they needed? Yeah, well, I'm sure the health department can spend any kind of money. Ladies and gentlemen, when we had a very difficult situation in the health service because of the fact that he was a COVID, the government reacted quickly and said this: we appreciate, respect doctors, paramedics, nurses, we give them 100% pay more. Ladies and gentlemen... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Dear Senator, it is over...]] ...100% pay more. This is an objective criterion of assistance in health care, which we have implemented. And one last thing. Senator Czarnobaj said, well, in general... And why this increase is 4.9% If it could be 7, 8, 9... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, it's been 10 minutes.]] [[Voice from the room: End of story!]] ...10% ? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, it's been 10 minutes.]] Okay, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u81	Thank you very much. [[I'll finish my second speech.]] So you're gonna want to... [[Yes.]] Yes? [[I'll finish it.]] Please take the floor of Senator Bogusława Orzechowska. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I've been in the Senate for six years, but I'm still amazed at the hypocrisy of our political opponents. And it seems that in the face of the threat of Poland we should all be together. That's when in 1918. Poles fought for their country, all forces were able to unite. We're dealing with a threat this year. And we should be aware of that on the part of Belarus. And that's a threat. really serious. If someone says he doesn't notice it, he either doesn't want to see it, or he doesn't realize it. But we are talking not only about the Polish border, but also about the European Union border. Attempts to cross our border of migrants, first children and women, are actually attempts to introduce... There will still be attempts to introduce soldiers or even tanks. For many years, the Polish Armed Forces were properly disarmed and everyone was happy to say that we did not need the army. Everyone laughed at the fact that WOTs were being created, and if it weren't for WOTs, there wouldn't be anyone driving patients to hospitals, swabbing or first aid. Therefore, health care and the protection of our borders are closely linked, contrary to the statements of some. I'm a health care representative, and I work all the time in this health service. I guess some of them might be upset. I'm a social senator, which is surprising to some. These actions that are being taken, these health-care protests... They are right, because indeed in some health departments income is very low, but there is no doubt that almost doubled the amounts that are spent on health care. There's been an increase from 70 to 120 billion, that's a huge difference. But when it comes to accounting, it's very different, because for many years, health care has been tried to go into privatisation forms. Those paramedics who have low rates all the time don't have them because they're on the job just because they're on contracts and often sign contracts that are unfavorable to them. I deal with paramedics every day, I deal with nurses, but in protests that were under the Seym and the Senate, there were often so-called. political activists. I saw a nurse there myself, who had before with lightning on her mask and a candle in her hand... She planted this tack under the gas box at my senator's office. Ladies and gentlemen, health care has been destroyed for many years. Yes, we were very proud of the level of doctors and nurses, but we were mainly proud of the fact that they supply health care everywhere but not in Poland. In Poland they were educated, and they were going to the West. That was our government's long-standing policy. There's definitely more and more educated and working staff at the moment. Probably two years ago, more people were registered for the first time in the Warmia-Mazury nursing home than they were graduating from nursing school. It's about all the nurses who ended up a little early, and then worked in other professions, but they figured that they'd get more money from working in the nursing profession. That is why I will vote in favour of this budget law. And I assure you that any amount that is needed for health care will still be too small. 'Cause I don't think there's a country in the world that can solve this problem. But we must govern money rationally and in such a way that our country is safe. Therefore, I ask you to take Poland seriously, take Poles seriously and also decide to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u83	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanislaw Ożog.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I will not speak long on the budget, because one side and the other side have spent enough time and arguments on it. Nor do I dare to propose any amendments, improvements, because there was too little time and we did not have the right data to make responsible proposals. I have confidence in the minister, in the team. They had time to prepare it. And, like my predecessor, I will vote unreservedly in favour of this budget. But I would like to say a few sentences with regard to the voices that have sounded in this debate in this House. Namely, it was criticised that the second time was a revision of the budget Last year and this year Even though they were special years. We like to compare ourselves to others, and we especially look to the West. What's it look like out there? Ladies and gentlemen, annual budgets of the European Union Annual It is updated several times a year, and the multiannual financial framework, which is the budget of a seven-year-old, is revised several times. And that's normal. Ladies and gentlemen, there was talk of debt. Of course, every debt is a kind of evil, but at times it is necessary to eat such a solution. And let's see how it was and how it was elsewhere. The budget of a seven-year-old woman, i.e. the European Union's multiannual financial framework, is around 1.5 trillion euro and the European Central Bank issued in 2014 and 2018 Or else, he printed it. • Empty money for the amount of approx. 3 trillion EUR 250 billion. This money was only for the 17th, i.e. for the euro area, for the redemption of national bonds and later on for private bonds, in order to save the economy of the euro area. Ladies and gentlemen, let us measure by equal measure, especially in the debates, in the budgetary discussions the division of the room should not be so much visible. I would like to thank you, Minister, for seeing the local government. What you did for the local government has a huge pronunciation. And it's not just a pronunciation, it's a necessity. Thank you very much for this one more time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz, within five minutes... [[I'm quitting, Mrs. Marshal.]] You're resigning? Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: 5 minutes, Mr. Senator.]] I hope I don't use it, Mrs. Marshal. I'm gonna start with a correction. The Minister gave me here... I'm the one who told you about the defense spending. There are 157 million in the account, and 150 billion PLN was spent in 3 years. So that I cordially apologize and straighten you out. And a few words about this addition. I'll start with the senator's statement. I'll just refer to a passage. The senator wanted to talk about the hypocrisy of the opposition, and then there was a beautiful argument about how we should act together. Do you think the hypocrisy is that we have a different opinion? You're the one who doesn't know the definition of hypocrisy. We should just be different here, because it's the differences that drive development, not the cladding. I mean, in general, I'm not referring to any of this. Don't clap and slap the same thing all the time: nice, beautiful... et cetera. It's not a development. It's a clap. And speaking of hypocrisy... I'm going to quote a few parts about health care that you represent here. That is not the essence of the problem, Senator, whether you give 120 billion zlotys or almost 80, the essence is that if the cost has increased and what is the financial result. And if thanks to the money we're giving, the queues have been cut short, there's better health care and so on. If you think it's better than it was, we'll stick to the differences. But I'd like to tell you things that are undeniable. In 2010 and 2015, the debt of hospitals increased by PLN 1 billion. And do you know how much the debt of hospitals has increased in 2015 and 2020 and how much is it now? It increased by PLN 4 billion, and now it amounts to PLN 15 billion. This is the measure of success. Of course, you can talk, like Senator Frost, about the fact that there is low unemployment. Of course you should be happy about this, Senator, because this is a measure of success. Only that if we go into the details and check where jobs were mainly created, it will turn out that there are good cases, such as the creation of places in services or in companies, but there has also been a big increase in administration. And that's something to think about, because you can say... But I generally agree: such low unemployment is a very good parameter of the Polish economy, beneficial for the economy and for the citizens, perhaps primarily for the citizens. But you also have to remember that the instruments you were talking about... Let me just say this: public debt, calculated by the EU method, is today almost PLN 1.5 trillion. And I would like to say that over the years of government, he has grown statistically by 80 billion a year. And do you know how much public debt has grown annually over the eight years of Prime Minister Donald Tusk's reign, the Civic Platform and the PSL? 40 billion a year. What does that mean? That means that some of the prosperity that Senator Klein was talking about, and some of the good parameters are largely financed by the public debt that will come to pay someday. Of course, we can refer to statistics and say: but there are countries in the European Union that have even greater public debt. That's the truth. But it must be fair to say that what was driving part of the economy was also excessive expenditure, excessive in relation to what we could have at our disposal. What will this bring in the future? What effects will it have for Poland? I think it's a little negative, but is it full of crashes... Well, I'm far from it. But it must be fair to say that in times of rule of law and justice or the United Right, public debt grew twice as fast as previous governments. It's worth keeping in mind. Now, just a little bit about where... They were moved e.g. The Senator also raised such issues as health or defence? Of course, it's not that simple to make a choice: tanks or health? However, take a look at what expenditure is being increased, what expenditure is being spent on, in the correction of the budget. There are also expenses for police, fire department, etc., others I will no longer exchange, so as not to prolong... The question is whether you need to buy abrams first or whether you can first improve the health of Poles, the availability of doctors, the number of these doctors. The fact that the number of students in medical school is increasing is also a positive fact, and I appreciate it, but today the facts are so... the senator is talking about positive trends in health care. But please, in addition to your environment, go to environments in another city, in another clinic, and listen to what is the opinion of both patients and people working there about whether it is better or worse. Let us not argue about who has an opinion from whose source, but objectively answer whether the debt of hospitals is increasing, whether the debt of the service is increasing, whether the queues are shrinking, or whether availability is increased. It's about these few parameters. When we compare them, and in mathematics we have to introduce fractions into the common denominator, when we bring them into the common denominator, Senator, when we choose the number of parameters that we're going to discuss, we're not going to start with hypocrisy, we're just going to start with this: in this area we should improve, etc., this could be better. The senator ended up saying it could be better. Senator, I will say again: in life you must always strive to make today better than yesterday, and tomorrow you must strive to make it better than it is today. Speaking of this, I say unambiguously: if in Poland investments were to grow as in previous years, we would have, and it is not my opinion, because I do not have such deep knowledge, the possibility of such rapid conversion, only experts who say... 8o9% This would be the increase of domestic product in Poland if investments, especially private ones, were at the level of previous years. We have to agree with this and in the framework of law making. let's do everything we can to encourage private investors to invest in Poland. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u87	Thank you very much. Senator Orzechowska ad vocem.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Rado! Mr. Senator Solomon... I'm sorry, Blackbay! You've tried many times to discredit people who say otherwise than you. Hypocrisy I know very well what that means. That's exactly what you're doing, and that's not what you're saying, so simply explaining. You've been using this hypocrisy a lot. You're saying you're acting for the good, and it's not necessarily consistent. I don't think I'm gonna discuss this anymore, but I'm gonna say that's your attitude. You insult your opponents who have a different opinion, not for the first time, not for the last time, because many times you have said: and I do not know if you have heard, and I do not know if you have understood... I don't want to continue this discussion anymore because I don't think it makes sense, but I'm going to say that I have the right to what my vision of health care, defence and the economy in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u89	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on these laws will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, thank you, Minister. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Income of Local Government Units and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 494 and the report of the Commission In print No 494 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u90	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Senate Marshal referred the income law of local government units and some other laws to 2 committees, to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The Act is related to the Polish Load programme and is intended to reduce the negative effects on the income of local government units. It uses certain tools that increase the revenue of local government units, including: a one-off subsidy to be paid to local government units this year. It is intended to stabilise the income of self-government units with a reference amount, which is, as a rule, equivalent to the annual income of PIT and CIT tax units, i.e. income tax on natural and legal persons. This reference amount is to come from the State budget. Development subsidy is also a new mechanism. There is also a periodic relaxation of the discipline of public finances, which boils down to the possibility of budgeting with a deficit, i.e. with a lower current income than the amount of current expenditure planned. In the committees the discussion lasted quite a long time. It was detailed, sometimes turbulent. Let me brief you on some of the threads of this discussion. Namely, it is important to convert own income into transfers from the budget. Own income was a share that shaped the revenue of local government units more than it would have been after that change, and the compensation was to be made by means of such transfers. This is a limitation on self-reliance. The problem that has also been raised is how to value the reference amount. Namely, in the new idea, this valorization is based on GDP growth. To date, the increase in PIT has translated into the income of local government units and historically increased PIT revenues much faster than they can grow now when they are linked to the gross domestic product. The issue of incomplete compensation was also raised, which is contrary to Article. 167 of the Constitution, and the lack of compensation for lost income as a result of changes in taxes in 2019 and 2020. Another was the planned role of development aid, which is now treated as compensation by the local authorities who notified this idea. It was a self-government initiative. Following such changes, the committees propose to adopt a law with amendments. These amendments are legislative in nature, they were proposed by the Senate Legislative Office. Most of these amendments have been agreed, i.e. they have been accepted by Minister Skuz present in the Chamber, but not all of them. It was not accepted by the Minister, but was accepted by the committee, e.g. an amendment to the vocabulary. One of the amendments that were tabled by the senators and adopted by the majority of the joint committees also concerns the definition, or vocabulary. The aim is to ensure that local governments do not reduce their income as a result of the movement of PIT taxpayers to flat-rate income tax. The Commission has also introduced an increase in the share of local government units in personal income tax. This is calculated in relation to the base for the year 2022, i.e. after reductions, and this is expected to offset the losses in sum. Also this amount planned to be transferred to local government units this year It was treated as compensation for what the local authorities would lose as a result of the introduction of regulations related to the Polish Ład. It was treated as compensation for lost revenue due to tax changes in the years 2019 to 2021. If this were to be the case, this compensation should not amount to 8 billion, but to 12.4 billion. The latest amendment proposed by the joint committees is to increase development aid to the amount of VAT on investments carried out by local government units. This was the original idea that this really impacting VAT on the state budget, charged on local investment, would return to the local government as an investment incentive and support for those self-governments that do not invest, because they could not even afford this start, i.e. they have zero operating surplus and cannot invest. This also increases the amount that was planned to be above PLN 3 billion. The effect of VAT on local investment to the State budget is significantly higher. To conclude, I would like to say that the committees are asking for the bill to be adopted together with the amendments that have been included in the committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Minister, you're welcome. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u92	Dear Marshal! High Senate! Finance of local government units is an extremely important topic both from the point of view of local government units and the entire public finance system. The debate on changes in the JST financing system has been taking place in public space for many years. Of course, the changes in this system proved necessary and even necessary. We are aware of the financial consequences for the local government units of Poland Lad. The answer to this is the law on the content submitted and adopted by the Sejm. What are the most important changes proposed in the Act? First of all, these are measures to stabilise the income of local government units and strengthen their predictability. That's one thing. Secondly, to make the management of the budgets of local government units more flexible by temporarily modifying the fiscal rules of the local government units. Third, measures to strengthen local government units in the financial area. It is both the current activities that have already fallen this amount of 8 billion and the target actions. Maybe I'll start by commenting on that $8 billion. It would be the support provided this year... In the first and second paragraphs, we discussed the budget law, the revision of it. And the amendment of the budget law includes an amount of up to PLN 12 billion in support of local government units still this year. 8 billion PLN is, you can say, directly correlated with the effects of the Polish Government and the loss of personal income tax. This would be an algorithmic split, in proportion to the expected share of personal income tax for local government units. These amounts would also be adjusted by the indicator of the wealth of the local government units concerned. In addition, as has already been said in the discussion of the first and second paragraphs, 4 billion PLN would go to local government units, but these 4 billion PLN would be funds within the framework of the so-called. aid for investments in water and sewerage infrastructure. I stress that both the amount of PLN 8 billion and the amount of PLN 4 billion at the level of statutory solutions would be allocated algorithmically. There would be no possibility of any discretionary action. The draft law, and ultimately the law adopted by the Sejm, provides for some flexibility in the management of the budgets of local government units by modifying the current fiscal rules. But that would only be temporary. And, I stress, this would not be a systemic solution. Local government units would therefore have the possibility of temporarily imbalanced the budget in the current part. So that's like, uh... In the 4-year period, current income and current expenditure would have to be balanced, but it would be possible, for example. in one year of adoption of the budget in the current part with a deficit. This is a compromise, also between the parties of local government units. Some representatives of the local government have called for a far-reaching solution, i.e. a derogation from the need for local government units to prepare budgets in the current and property parts, to replace them with a single budget and to refer to the fiscal rules. The solution is compromise, i.e. the temporary possibility of imbalance of the current part. And as I said, this is a time solution, not a system solution. The local government unit will also be able to accept the operating surplus of the three-year arithmetic average or the seven-year arithmetic average. And this will be at the disposal of local government units. The effect of this change would be to increase the formal capacity of the local government unit to repay and service debt. The Act also provides for a reduction in the threshold for the participation of the European Union in the financing of programmes, projects or tasks financed from Union funds from which the exemption from the individual debt ratio applies. And there would be a reduction from the present 60%. up to 50%. The Act also provides for numerous measures to stabilise the situation of local government units and increase the predictability of income. With regard to predictability, but also the stabilisation of the income of local government units, the Act provides for a solution whereby local government units will have a fixed amount of personal and corporate income tax contributions in advance for the financial year in question and will receive these pre-financing amounts each month of 1/12. That's a very good solution. It increases the predictability and planning capacity of the budget by the local government unit. A further part of the general subsidy, so-called, is also envisaged. development aid. This part of the general subsidy, development subsidy, although its name may suggest that it is intended and can only be used for investment, property expenditure, does not lose the quality of the subsidy and is the income of the current local government unit. So this part of the general subsidy can be used to balance the current budget. How would this subsidy be calculated? The basic part of the subsidy, i.e. 60% , would be divided against the number of persons resident in the local government unit and 40% ... here, you could say, the competence criteria of local government units. There would be competition, competition, as 20% of the subsidies would be granted to local government units where investments per capita are higher than the average in a given basket of local government units. Next 20% would be granted in such a system a little competitive as a bonus for those local government units, which annually show the highest progress and are above average. This amount would amount to a minimum of PLN 3 billion. From 2023 onwards, it would be valued annually at the growth rate of the nominal gross domestic product, i.e. taking into account real economic growth and price increases. By means of development grants, the local government unit would receive funds to balance the current budget. In addition, this system of calculation and operation of development subsidies would be, you might say, incorporated into the system of guaranteeing a certain amount of resources to local government units for participation in personal income tax and corporate income tax. Ms Marshal, High Izbo, local government units would be guaranteed that their shares in CIT and PIT, their income from this will not be lower than those calculated from the same titles on the basis of the so-called. the reference amount. The reference amount would be calculated on the basis of the multiannual financial forecast prepared by local government units. They defined the expected receipts for participation in PIT and CIT before the announcement of the Polish Load program, i.e. before the reform of income. This amount would be valued with the increase in nominal gross domestic product, i.e. taking into account price increases but also economic growth. The reference amount thus calculated would be compared with the revenue from participation in taxes and proposed in the draft budget law. There would simply be calculated proportions and these 2 amounts would be combined. If the amount foreseen for local government units for a given financial year for participation in income taxes was lower than the reference amount, the government would be obliged to increase the development subsidy in the draft budget law by that amount. Thus, it can be said that the predictability of nominal revenues for local government units would be maintained. Change so that only structure can change. The point is, for example. in the case of losses due to the Polish Order, losses in personal income tax, this gap would have to be... If it were created, it would have to be completed by increasing the development aid. In turn, if the situation were reversed, if this reference amount were lower than the planned income tax revenue of the local government units, then the government would be obliged to provide a development subsidy of 3 billion. The amount of this subsidy would also be subject to annual valorisation of the nominal gross domestic product. So the law introduces a mechanism to protect local government units from economic fluctuations or legal changes. The government, regardless of the extent of these effects, would be obliged to fill the development gap. Development subsidy would be divided among local government units on an algorithm based on statutory criteria. There are often questions about increasing the share of local government units in income taxes. The Commission even accepted such an amendment. Although I would like to point out here that the position given to the Senate to rural communities did not contain such a proposal. The rural communities did not call for an increase in their share of personal income tax. Why? The reason lies in the tax changes which brings Poland's Load. There is a significant increase in the tax-free amount to PLN 30,000 proposed. With so high a free amount of many pensioners and many low-income people will not pay income tax on individuals at all, so the income tax base on individuals in poorer, agricultural communities will not change proportionally. She's gonna change much more, she's gonna decrease. As I said at the Senate committee meeting, it's better to have 1% of hundreds of billions than even 90 or 100%. From scratch. And that could happen in some cases. The personal income tax base in some local government units could be significantly reduced. Dear Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Council of Ministers, I request the adoption of a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Stanisław Ożog. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal, let me... I'd like to ask two gentlemen whose opinion I value very much. Minister, Senator, don't you think that in a situation where the income law j.s.t. it is already over 18 years old, she was about 20 times amended, should it lead to the development of a new law? Couldn't we, based on the income bill j.s.t. vetoed in 2001 by the then president, introduce the participation of local government units in indirect taxes? I'm very interested in the opinion of you and the senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u95	Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u96	Dear Marshal! High Senate! Indeed, the law already has, you can say, its years and as each requires changes. We have come to this conclusion on the basis of cooperation between the government and local government in the Joint Government and Local Government Commission. However, these changes, which we are talking about and which are the subject of today's debate, relate mainly to the effects of the Polish Deal. I have to say that the local government has insisted that these solutions be systemic, that they be adopted as soon as possible and that they be known as soon as possible, so as to minimise the risk of uncertainty, because it was not just about what was going to happen in 2022, the local government also wanted to know the solution for future years. Therefore, this project was prepared as a bit of an ad hoc action, in a way that I would say express, except for the consultation phase. But this does not preclude the actions we are carrying out within the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission and the working sub-group for the finances of local government. This work will continue, e.g. on what appeared yesterday during the debate in the Senate's finance committee, namely to base certain solutions on the expenditure needs of local government units. So this work will continue. Should we rely on a project from many years ago? I don't know, but I think it might be a base and a starting point to think about if the local government accepts such solutions. I think we can continue our work, also using this project that has been vetoed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u97	Thank you very much. Are you Senator... On the spot, Mr. Senator, it's for the best.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u98	Thank you very much. I am clearly in favour of undertaking such work and changing the system of financing local tasks. And I draw attention to the fact that some parts of this system do not function completely, such as. like a levelling system that requires a complete review, because maybe there wouldn't be any disputes like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u99	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna pull this line, but we're gonna back off a little bit. Namely, in connection with this new law, it will certainly have to be assessed how the old one works, but not in relation to all j.t., collectively, but in relation to individual levels. As the Minister believes, which level, gmina, powiats or voivodship, has the worst financial situation at the moment, has the biggest problems with budgeting, e.g. in terms of health care, the supervision of county hospitals?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u101	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u102	Dear Marshal! High Senate! In general, I will start by saying that, in principle, I judge the situation of total local government units as not the worst at the moment. After the six months of this year and after the end of 2020 local government units notice a surplus, both in total and in current surplus. As I recall, in the most difficult situation during the pandemic there were cities on the rights of the county. Those operating surpluses, as I recall, were the lowest in that period. That's what I can say about the situation of local government units. However, I believe that their situation will definitely improve in 2021. I believe that the year 2021 will also close for local government units with a general surplus. Here you can only think how high this surplus will be, whether it's 10-digit or 11-digit. I understand that a certain disturbance may be the funds transferred at the end of this year, but the situation of local self-government units after the first year of the pandemic, in 2020, I really call it not the worst. And I told the Senate committee yesterday that local government units were able to achieve total revenue higher than those planned before the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u103	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki. Absent. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A little bit of two lines... The first is what was the subject of our deliberations and what was presented by Director Porawski, who showed that by 2019, as the Minister said, the situation was quite good, to say the least, and then there was a decline. And there was this difference of 14 billion PLN. You said it would be compensated by the money we talked about in the previous points, which would help local governments. I think, Minister, that we can make an appointment in the middle of the year for this venture. Because it will be this period, we will see what the situation of local governments on the side of the financial result for 2021 looks like. Is what you said to the Minister closer to the truth or what you presented to Director Porawski? That's one thing. Secondly, what you were talking about, senator, I think it's time for you to grow up. We need to sit down for the talks and we are counting very much on the Minister here about the new law on the financing of local governments. There is a lot of experience both in the ministry and in local corporations and in local governments. A new model needs to be developed, which will consist of the maximum possible participation in taxes as far as public finances are concerned. The aim is to ensure that what is related to the tax impact secures the day-to-day functioning of the local government. Of course, we are not talking about extremes, whether it is as much as possible or as little. This is a levelling system. But in general, you have to sit down and move in this direction. The other thing is the question. assisting the decisions of the government and parliament of investment projects. Because I can't imagine that the local government in Poland would be involved, I don't know, in street lighting or in the transportation of impureness, and not directly affecting the issues of the widely understood investment in intellect, but also in hard investments. This support system from the state budget is good, only I'll remind you again, and I'll keep reminding you. It could not have been an accident at work that the local investment fund was divided 10:1. Where there's no PiS, there's a dollar, and where there's a PiS, there's 10 zlotys. It's neither fair nor constitutional. And we were pleased, Minister, as you said, that the distribution of money into these 2 areas is about subsidies and water and sewage investments, will be according to the algorithm. Too bad it's so late, but, as the proverb says, it's better late than never. And we very much hope that the Minister will be open when it comes to creating a new law. This applies to maximum support for the day-to-day operation of taxes, while at the same time supporting common government and local government policy investment decisions. This is the model and direction of action that I encourage the Minister and all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u105	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jack Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll only be brief. I tabled an amendment which I would like to briefly discuss. I would like to see the Law in the Art. 1 point 12 in the following article: Article 28a (2) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. This still has further consequences, but the idea is that local governments, which can manage well, have no limits on receiving subsidies of more than 3%. Let those who are better hosts have a chance that they will not have a limit, but there will be a slightly greater opportunity for them to reach for a subsidy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary... He's not here. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, then... Excuse me, Senator Necessary has submitted his speech to the minutes. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u108	I'll try to speak very briefly because it's time. We could talk about local government for hours, especially colleagues who sit on senator benches, but I would like to say a few words. As far as what the Minister said and the other approach of rural communities to the bill is concerned, with full respect, because they are my friends, but rural communities care about their interests. Municipalities, which also drive the economic development of the country, are mainly urban municipalities, because there are factories, there are jobs, there this development is generated. Despite my full respect for rural communities, however, I would place emphasis on the places where this development is the largest, and I would take into account the demands of urban municipalities, urban-rural municipalities, large cities. I would also suggest that consideration be given to increasing participation in CIT. Because today in local governments our main income is to participate in PIT, but in order to fight for new investments, for the development of our country and for the development of our small homelands, it would be necessary to create mechanisms of stimulation so that the municipalities would want this economic development to take place. So that I would invest where there is development, bearing in mind also full respect for rural communities. Minister, I'm really happy, I'm not hiding the fact that there's an algorithm in the bill. This algorithm was sought by the municipality, because unfortunately we had a very unpleasant experience with the local investment fund. If there's an algorithm in this case, even if it's not perfect and then maybe you'll have to correct it, it's definitely a big plus of this bill. I have great concerns about whether the sums you have talked about will actually compensate for the losses, because according to calculations, at least the Association of Polish Cities will not compensate. This raises constitutional doubts because it violates the provisions of the Article. 167 of the Constitution, which states that local government units are provided with a share of public income according to their respective tasks and that the revenue of local government units is their own income and general subsidies and special subsidies from the state budget. Therefore, money should be as much as the tasks are, and they should depend on what the costs of these tasks generate. In the light of this article, the proposed changes in the scope described are, it would seem, unconstitutional, because this money will probably not be enough, because losses in the income of local government units are multi-billion-dollar, and the scope of the tasks of local government units is not changing. The tasks remain, and the money, seems, will be less. The amendment does not introduce a new source of financing for local government units in the form of a development subsidy requested by local authorities, which was intended to be equivalent to the return of VAT paid into the State budget on investments. There were a lot of these proposals, and I'm not going to exchange them, and I'm not going to talk about it being worth it... This is what Senator Ożog said, and I also agree that perhaps it is time to sit down and start work that will not last for a week, not for two weeks, not for a month, on a new reform of local government, so that local governments actually play a very important role in the development of the country. Today I don't think anyone is questioning that the biggest success of Poland after 1989 was local governments. The discussions that took place on the occasion of the previous bill, when we tried to bid on who had more merit, or the government, or maybe someone else, when it comes to the fact that we were relatively mildly in the pandemic crisis and that the country's development is taking place... It does happen, but I'm gonna stand in the position that it's mostly credit. it was this self-government reform in 1989. It is the local government in their small homelands that take care of this development, and thanks to it today we are going through this crisis quite gently. Bottom line, I'm gonna say yes. This bill is pretty good, but it could be a lot better. It's just like revenue... Someone says that thanks to the government in Poland it is good. But you always have to remember. that it could be better if we could make better use of all the opportunities that depend largely on local governments together. Self-governments need to be stimulated to create this added value in local governments. I find this bill pretty good. As regards the local government environment with which I am constantly in contact, these concerns remain, but I hope that we will bring them to an end together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u109	Thank you very much, Senator. And I would like you to address Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u110	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I met with self-government officials and I was vice-president of the Lubuskie Sejm, and I had contact with them, just like Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, and as part of the preparation for work on the bill under investigation at this point, we discussed what expectations are for the government of the Republic of Poland. And I have to say, there were different answers. They differed slightly in detail, but they can be summarized in one sentence in general: for the inhabitants we want to be an effective host, and for the government we want to be a partner. Why am I talking about this? Because when I went to talk about this law, which is crucial for them, I heard at once that they were afraid that as a result of the changes in the tax system they would not be the first, and the latter did not feel even at the stage of the work on this law. Here we certainly need to say a few sentences about the current situation of local governments in our country. Some of my interlocutors have not yet fully recovered from the effects of education reform, others have drawn attention to current problems, e.g. increasing prices of construction products, thus exceeding the investment cost assumptions resulting from cost estimates, or e.g. wage pressure from their employees, which they understand in principle, knowing the growing in Poland, unfortunately, I have to say this with regret, inflation. Some of my guests, the more ambitious ones, spoke about the preparations being made for the absorption of European Union aid under the new financial perspective, which requires both staff preparation and spending on programming and building work. That's what the self-governments from my Lubusian land said. Now let me change my perspective and draw the attention of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators to what includes the international obligations of our country. The Council of Europe adopted the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which was ratified by Poland. I would like to mention some of the provisions of the article. 9, which speaks of the financial resources of local communities. The local Communities have the right, within the framework of national economic policy, to have sufficient resources of their own which they can freely possess in the exercise of their powers. The financial resources of local communities should be proportionate to the competences provided for by the constitution or law, and the financial systems on which the principles of local communities are based should be sufficiently diversified and evolutionary in order to allow them to stick to, where possible in practice, the real evolution of the costs of exercising their competences. Local communities should be properly consulted on how to allocate resources to them. As it turns out from my discussions with local authorities and from the analysis of the provisions of the European Charter for Local Government, the proposed provisions on the one hand raise legitimate concerns of local authorities, and on the other hand, if they are not in clear contradiction with our international obligations, they are incompatible with their spirit. Analyzing the proposed changes in the financing of local governments, I have serious discomfort, because the function of law, as I often say, is to make life more predictable. However, local authorities have no such belief in the proposed provisions, although our country has committed itself to the fact that local authorities will have adequate funding to carry out their tasks. Is it possible to correct the proposed provisions? In my opinion, yes. Can they be changed in a simple way to make the functioning of local governments more predictable? Here, too, my answer is yes. This can, of course, be achieved by correcting the proposals sent to us and introducing provisions to ensure that the income of municipalities, powiats and voivodships and metropolitan unions will not be reduced as a result of changes in the tax system. The proposed change in the project presented to us will make the life of local governments more predictable than the development subsidy introduced by the Act. The new subsidy must not replace stable local government revenues and may complement their funding system, especially between the end of one and the launch of another European Union budgetary perspective, provided, of course, that it is fairly distributed. Finally, Mrs. Marshal, three amendments. I'm after consulting the Legislative Bureau that's preparing them right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Janusz Pęcherz, Janusz Gromek and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes, and that the proposals of a legislative nature were submitted by Senators Jacek Bury, Wojciech Kołacz-Karnicki and Władysław Komarnicki. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to present a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty Act. The text of the act is contained in print No 502, and the report of the committee In print No 502 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! Yesterday, on 6 October, a meeting was held between the joint committees, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. We've examined the 502 printing bill on it. You have a report from this, it is included in print No 502 A. I will briefly outline what is the subject of the law, because right away, I would like to say first of all that the act did not raise doubts and controversy. At both committee meetings, the initiative was accepted, accepted and even well assessed. I hope that this reading will be similar. The Act I am talking about amends the excise duty Act of 6 December 2008. The purpose of the Act is to introduce a regulation allowing the continuation of the activities carried out in the tax warehouse in the event that the former tax warehouse operator resigns from the activity without having to complete the suspension procedure for excise goods in that tax warehouse. The proposed regulation responds to the expectations of entities operating in the form of a tax warehouse. It should be pointed out that they indicate that there is no possibility for another entity to continue its activities in tax formation, which is not the legal successor of the existing tax warehouse operator. These difficulties concern actually all, but especially tax warehouses of the type of production. The current arrangements constitute a barrier to economic activity because, in accordance with the Act of 6 December 2008 on excise duty, the change of the tax warehouse operator requires de facto a new authorisation to operate the warehouse, of course, excluding the situations set out in the Act which relate exclusively to tax successions. In other cases, the change in the tax warehouse operator requires the withdrawal of the excise licence to the existing tax warehouse operator and the issue of a new excise permit to the new entity. All of this causes a de facto break in business. As I said, if this is a continuous activity, in fact it not only makes it difficult, but even prevents it from doing so. I could also give you a lot of details about this law and the solutions it proposes, but I do not want to prolong it, especially since, as I said, all the stakeholders, the government, the social partners, the state of senators of all the clubs, so over the divisions and regardless of their views, have accepted and welcomed this law. I refer to the High House for its adoption and I think that there is no need for further justification here. To conclude, I would just like to say that it will serve, of course, its positive social, economic, financial effects, not only to entrepreneurs, but also to the state. The State is also interested in this, especially in the strategic sectors. In addition, the Act will have a positive impact on the activities of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, where any cessation of activities There's a lot of trouble involved. We can avoid this if we adopt this amendment. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u113	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was introduced by Members, but there is no and will not be a Member of the applicant. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you very much. Senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the representative of the government relating to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u114	If your marshal and the High House allow me, I would like to agree with the committee's rapporteur and express the same view. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u115	Thank you so much for making such a quick and very concrete speech. [[Voices from the hall: Thank you, thank you!]] Thank you very much. [[Adam, record!]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Ryszard Świlski, Janusz Pęcherz and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on State aid in the raising of children and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 493, and the report of the Commission In print No 493 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The law, which I have the honour to discuss on behalf of 2 committees, social policy and local government, changes the implementation of the 500+ programme from local government units to the Social Insurance Institution, restricts to the form of only electronic way of submitting applications for benefits, restricts the payment of benefits only to the form of transfer to a bank account, complicates the task carried out by 2 institutions, the Social Insurance Institution and the voivodeship, the system of payment of benefits in the field of coordination of social security systems, exempts from the regime of the Public Procurement Act all services and contracts necessary for the implementation of this scheme by the Social Insurance Institution and the legislative order of the system of benefits. Everything about the 500+ payout will be included in the State Aid Act in raising children. Thus, issues related to foster care will be transferred from the Family Support Act and the foster care system. The Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2022, with the exception of provisions adapting the Social Insurance Institution to the requirements of this Act. These shall apply from the day following the date of publication. The Sejm adopted a government submission on 17 September this year. After work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, 8 amendments were rejected. In the Senate, the joint committees, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy discussed this law on 6 October. We have taken into account the opinions of the Government's Legislative Centre, the Association of Polish Districts and the Polish Federation of Social Workers and Social Assistance and the opinion of the Legislative Office. In the course of the discussion there were critical voices as to the solutions contained in the law. It was stressed that the change of the authority accepting applications and paying benefits, such as local government units and, more specifically, municipal social assistance centres, would extend the path between the recipient and the provider. After six years of good operation of the program, which was implemented by local governments... This activity was learned by local workers and for this they were praised, because they had very little time to prepare for this task. They could do it. Local officials can not only help to receive applications, pay benefits, but also check how these benefits are spent and, in some cases, replace cash payments for services, either in kind or in kind. The inhabitants of the communes are accustomed to the place where they carry out this task, very close to them, because when it comes to one of the government's programs, which is really gaining applause among all, i.e. 500+, they know who to turn to in the event of difficulties in fulfilling the proposal. We're changing the rules of the game in two and a half months. Everything that's been good so far, all of a sudden, it stops being good. The government, praised by the government so far, has no longer been a worthy partner for this program. Who's gonna believe that 43 ZUS units, even with 209 inspectors and 70 field offices, are gonna replace, and they're gonna replace, 2,000 477 municipalities with their OPS? Especially since the only form of submission will be the electronic application. Who is going to believe that 12,000 civil servants will be effectively replaced by ZUS employees on behalf of the local government? Those who today, in addition to their statutory tasks, have other tasks concerning the collection of our social security contributions, the collection of contributions to the NFZ, the payment of sick leave, rehabilitation benefits, because they are additionally engaged in tourist vouchers, the program, good start, in a moment they will be dealing with caring capital, and from 1 January service 500+. Who's gonna believe they're gonna do this effectively? Even ZUS employees who, not paid the highest, are already protesting the new tasks imposed on them, without increasing their salary, without increasing their employment, do not believe this. The Polish Union Federation of Social Workers and Social Assistance in its letter to our committee, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, writes: "It is impossible not to notice that accessibility for citizens understood as the possibility of fast (effective) and distant from the place of residence, contacting an official and dealing with the matter will be severely limited. The above does not change the fact that the draft law only establishes the implementation of the programme using electronic means. During the allowance period 2019/2020 31.5% all applications have been submitted by traditional (paper) means. I would remind you that 4 million, 300,000 people benefit from this benefit. 31.5% It's over 1 million people. Further: This form of child benefit claim was largely used by vulnerable recipients, i.e. poor families, smaller urban centres or villages, as well as families excluded digitally (without access to a computer or internet). The programme's cost savings planners should not escape the fact that it is these families, particularly vulnerable to the consequences of exclusion, and therefore need support, that they will become mainly victims of limited availability and created barriers to opportunities, e.g. the traditional application, filling in the deficiencies in the proceedings, as well as the significant remoteness of their place of residence from the ZUS unit in which there will be a chance to contact the official. Okay, you're going to say there's social workers, there's trade unions that take care of the jobs of these 12,000 officials. But we have the opinion of the Government Legislation Centre, which says that the provisions of the proposed law introduce exclusive applications in this respect, not the possibility of using the electronic road, while deciding on the only proper way to serve the administrative decision, i.e. in electronic form on the information profile in the IT system made available by the Social Security Office. Moreover, it is also argued that not only the submission of applications but also the refusal or the decision to supplement some documents will take place electronically. RCL writes: "A solution consisting of ex officio service of administrative decisions only in electronic form without taking into account the party's will, including its right to opt out of electronic service, may also be assessed as asystemic and potentially resulting in a limitation or breach of the principle of the party's active participation in proceedings and consequently the right to challenge decisions taken at first instance.' It's about art. 78 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. So this means that as of 1 January 2022 on the 500+ programme, everyone will have to communicate with the Social Insurance Institution by electronic means only, means that we force people, without their will, to establish accounts and to be able to use these IT accounts. But we also tell them, "This is the only way you can correspond with the Social Insurance Institution." And if you don't receive correspondence or have your e-mail address, you won't receive a benefit. How else is this gonna end? It's unconstitutional. Therefore, not only the unions of social workers who care about the quality of life of the inhabitants, but also the Government Legislative Centre have doubts about such a way of resolving cases. There is also another difficult issue, namely that not only do I need to be able to correspond with the Social Security Office, but also I cannot receive the benefit in the form of a postal or cash transfer. I have to set up a bank account and receive a benefit only by way of a wire transfer after this e-mail. It's not a bad direction, it's an electronic way of communicating. We are living during the digital revolution and it is true that we should all be able to use these new tools of life, actually such basic accessories. But this also means that we need time to implement such solutions. I will tell you that if all these tasks concerning the electronicization of our lives were to be implemented with the help of local government, this would be a successful operation, because in the municipalities there is a diagnosis which families need to be helped, even through the system of benefits that we pay, even through the system of family assistance that we have. We know which people need to be helped, and who will do just fine without our help. If we left this task in local government units, there would be no problem with digitization in this area. But we'd still need time. The explanatory memorandum states that the aim of this law is only to optimise the provision of services by using increasingly common tools such as IT systems, as well as reducing the cost of operating the program. And indeed, 0.85% a write-off on the total cost of the programme that the local governments received... The government expects to pay the Social Insurance Institution 8 times less. This means, ladies and gentlemen, 6 PLN per application, 6 PLN per year. Is there anyone who will believe that this is enough? The law is silent about the costs that will remain in local governments, the representative of the Polish Districts Association spoke about this during the committee's deliberations, i.e. the cost of service of benefits in kind, i.e. where the payment of 500+ in cash is refused and replaced by that amount either by in-kind forms or by services provided to the child. This is served and will continue to be served by local governments, although the government is silent about what money will do it for. These costs are also the cost for local authorities to make all points of mobile service available to the Social Security Office available, even in the Government's explanatory memorandum of the law, the costs resulting from the need to issue more than 70,000 child certificates in foster care, to verify that children in foster care have not changed their address and place of residence, are the costs of sending documents and information to the Social Security Office. This will all cost money, but this is not in the costs provided for the local government units. In a word, we complicate a well-functioning system, even though some of the witnessing issues will have to be dealt with in the municipality and in the ZUS, in the county and in the ZUS, in the voivodeship and in the ZUS. Why are we doing this? Art. The 16th Act reads as follows: public contracts shall not apply to service or supply contracts awarded by the Social Insurance Institution in connection with the performance of tasks relating to the establishment of the conditions for the acquisition of the right to provide education and the rules for the award and payment of that benefit. What does RCL say? RCL says that the exclusion of public procurement rules is argued in the justification for the need to eliminate direct contact due to the COVID epidemic. It is pointed out that it is essential for citizens' safety to implement the proposed solutions without delay and therefore to take action by the US in a very short time regime excluding the possibility of applying public procurement law. A rule like that means that it's a regulation for a while, for a pandemic. But according to the bill, it's a permanent provision. I RCL notes that those circumstances that the exclusion of the application of the Act of 11 September 2019 require an opinion by the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Questioned the day before yesterday by me, Minister, whether this is the opinion, she replied: there is no opinion. Well, that's not enough, because this is the Government Legislation Center. But the senacci legislators note: 'It should be noted that in the opinion 'attention! ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 16 of the Act is incompatible with Directive 2014/25/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on public procurement. And further: by the opinion of the Minister for European Union Affairs, the introduction of such an exemption may lead to the initiation of infringement proceedings against Poland. In view of the above, it is proposed to consider deleting the article. 16 of the Act. I ask you, that the Government of Law and Justice is not in the habit of listening to either the opinion of the social side or the opinion of the union party, unless it is in favour of their projects or the opinion of Members and Senators we are used to. But the fact that the Government of Law and Justice doesn't listen to the Government's Legislative Center and that there's a different opinion in one ministry, and that in the other ministry, it's new. This is not the best practice, and in my opinion it does not need to be a tradition. During the debate, it was also argued that governments have the right to rationalise government expenditure. This is absolute agreement. That was the issue raised by Senator Janusz Bleacher. Senator Majer stated that the government has the right to choose the organizer who carries out government programs. That's it. That's it. That's it. The agreement on implementation, cost rationalisation and organisation is the competence of the government. But the current changes... But do these powers empower the government to introduce rules that are not in accordance with the Constitution? That's what RCL said. Incompatible with EU law? This was said by the Minister for European Union Affairs. Making it harder for the 4 million 300 000 citizens who benefit from this scheme? Do these changes really cost money? No. Do they distance the service provider from the recipient? Yes. The government is waterproof, it doesn't hear these arguments. And the truth is, if we want to make a digital revolution and help people rationally use government money in a simple and simple way, that's what we need time and a smart, close citizen to implement these programs, i.e. local government units. Therefore, could such a debate be followed by a proposal other than a motion to reject this law? No, you couldn't have expected it. On behalf of both committees, I request that this bill be rejected. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u117	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Eve Matecka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, I have a question. Well, all the changes proposed in this law have a lot of negative effects. Among them is what the senator was kind to say, that is, the loss of work by thousands of people employed in the bodies that so far carried out this task; most often they were social assistance centres. Did the representatives of the government who wrote this bill at the committee's meeting present any plan that would respond to the effects of the announced waves of layoffs or staff transfers of people who have so far carried out this task?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u119	No, Senator, this proposal has not been made for nearly 12,000 people. However, I am convinced that their competence, skills, involvement in work is the capital that every smart government will manage. Polish, Polish self-government, we can't all afford such waste. But no, there are no special shielding programs. At the same time, I would like to say that this issue was raised by Senator Janusz Błucherz, who somewhat calmed our mood about the future of people serving the 500+ programme today in local governments, saying that local governments will certainly find employment for most of these people. However, I would like to draw attention to the more important thing, because with all due respect for those who are concerned with the most difficult area of our social life, which is working with people who have had different actions in their lives, which are most often not successful, this life goes through... But today it's not about those 12,000 people. we say Although I say we must not waste their capital, we are talking about 4 million 300 thousand people who are beneficiaries of the 500+ programme. And even if they were among them... The Minister shakes his head when I read the numbers on applications completed in a traditional way - 30.5%. It is the social workers who talk about it and the trade unions, the government in its forecasts represented 20%. Count the countries Either way, more than a million people can't handle digitalization in their lives, or nearly a million people can't handle it. The Social Insurance Institution is not eligible for 500+ benefits. The Social Insurance Institution is not the place where you should pay out a tourist voucher, the funds from the good start, or God knows what other government program. The Social Insurance Institution is to ensure that our contributions to our pensions are collected, that health contributions are provided, that the compensation scheme for disabled workers is operated, and that we are provided with timely payment of pensions, pensions and rehabilitation benefits. It's not from government programs that were designed primarily for demography or life improvement. That's why there are social services, social services, the ones that we put in the municipalities, because they're closest to the citizen and they can help effectively there. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u120	Thank you. No further questions... [[Voice from the room: No, they're still...]] Oh, there's a question. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law really changes a lot of things, among others. the way in which benefits are paid to persons who have been deprived of benefits or have received them to a reduced extent due to the provisions on the coordination of social security systems. It's in the area where I live that's particularly important. There just a lot of people went to work, before, beyond the borders of Poland. What changes in this case...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u122	In this case... Excuse me... [[You're welcome.]] In this case, two things change. Firstly, this benefit can be granted in the amount provided for in Poland after obtaining information from the relevant services, corresponding to our social services or responsible for the payment of family benefits in the country in which they may be collected or collected by one of the parents. In our system, in this coordination system, it is that if in the country where mom works, outside Poland, the benefit is higher than in Poland and decided to download it there, then of course this mom will not benefit from 500+. But if that benefit is lower there, we'll add the difference. The problem is that in the security coordination system not always the social services of the country of employment of one of the parents are obliged or want to answer questions addressed on the Polish side. It's been a long time of correspondence... For a long time, such a witness has been waiting for. This is where the government proposes a good solution. We're gonna cut back on time... We'll give you that benefit. If it's too much and you have to pay that surplus back, in two years we'll have the right to reprimand this surplus, and if not, the child will get a higher benefit... [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u123	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u124	I'll ask because it's definitely important for a lot of people, at least from my district. That means that... we've even transferred these competences from marshals' level, as I recall, if the units of the marshal's subordinates to the voivodeship level...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u125	No. We've been moving these assignments... They were tasks in the field of tasks commissioned by the regional government. Yes, and from regional social policy centres went to voivodeships in 2017, although already there were EU rules that allowed for such solutions as are introduced today... To be honest, Mr. Senator, this was not a good change, despite the fact that the Minister, the Undersecretary of State of the then Ministry of Labour, Social Policy and Family, assured that the transfer of this coordination from the local government to the voivodships would speed up the process. Not only did it not accelerate, it even extended... [[But here...]] And today we say this: we leave some of them at the voivodeship, these things going on, and some of them moving to the Social Insurance Institution. [[Here we're different about the...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u126	Okay, but the question is... Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u127	...the assessment of whether it has accelerated... In my region it certainly accelerated, I can say, in the Opole province... [[Okay.]] But back to the point, I'd like to ask... I think this recipe is favorable... [[Yes.]] ...because there's a parent's statement... We, I mean, you check and the parent gets It is not dependent on official fitness in general. Then why are you guys, I'm sorry, throwing out the whole bill, and you're not trying to correct it if there's a good law here? This is a fundamental issue for me. If there are, then it's either her, I'm sorry, you're throwing out laws and regulations that are beneficial to the new, I don't know the legislative initiative... There were such gray prints attached immediately to the second reading... [[Yes, art. 69 of our Senate Rules of Procedure...]] Well, it's either this road, it's a little bit longer, or it's just an amendment that leaves what's good in the bill, after the discussion, and what's bad, possibly deletes. Please note that such a way of proceding in the Senate, i.e. only filing a motion to reject the bill, causes either it will be rejected and good solutions will not pass, or this application will be rejected, will not be supported in the Sejm. Well, then what? Then these possible reservations to the bill remain. It's a certain inconsistency.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u128	Thank you. Was this discussed at the committee meeting? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u129	I don't think so. A similar way of thinking about the procession of laws was presented by Senator Janusz Pęcherz, who is a supporter, as he said, of correcting bad laws through amendments, not rejecting them. But I have presented to you the arguments for which the joint committees have decided to support the proposal to reject this law in its entirety. And even if the solutions you mentioned are good in the system of coordination of social security systems, there is nothing to prevent the government from bringing them forward in a fast, accelerated way to the Sejm. And I am convinced that we will adopt them there, supporting solutions that have been in line with European Union law since 2016.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u130	Thank you. Any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family and Social Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak on this bill, Deputy Minister Barbara Socha? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u131	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present a bill to you, and perhaps not so much as to present a bill, but to refer more directly, if possible, to all the information and statements that have come from the senator's mouth. First of all, what is the purpose of this law, which changes the way of operating the benefit payment 500+ from the new year? The aim of this amendment is to optimize and thus save money, and this saving is significant for the state budget, linked to the payment of the benefit of 500+, without any adverse changes for the beneficiaries of this scheme, i.e. no adverse changes for parents who are today receiving the benefit of 500+. These savings are the amount of... We compare here over the decade, because this is how the impact assessment of the regulation provides for this. So in the next decade we're talking about the cost of what we have today, or 3 billion 100 million zlotys, or 457 million zlotys, assuming that the program will start to be implemented by the Social Security Office. This is PLN 2.5 billion savings on the cost of operating the program Not on the cost of the program, we don't change the program, we change the way it is paid in 10 years. This is a very significant amount. And we care about public finances... We believe that this is enough reason to make such a change. As a result, one of the successive laws that the High House will deal with will be the Act on Family Care Capital. These are further programmes, the beneficiaries of which are parents, possible among others. That's because we rationalize the expenses that are. Of course, I agree with the fact that local governments were very good at implementing this programme. Nevertheless, this is an operating method that excludes automation, because... Automation is that... Today in the ZUS the program is already being implemented is a good start, it is a very similar program, from a technical point of view similar. It is based on the same solutions and applies to the same group of people. It requires verification with virtually the same data that we have in the case of the 500+ family programme. This is a program that is already being implemented by the ZUS today. Over 90% applications submitted in this programme shall be carried out automatically, without the participation of any official, without the participation of any ZUS employee. That's what automation is all about, and that's why they're saving money. This is possible because applications are submitted electronically and automatically compared with other databases. This is also somewhat the answer to the question of why ZUS does not only deal with pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, the postulate... I don't know if I understand the perspective, Senator Lover's view. From your point of view, would it be optimal to build a second, similar centre, such as the Social Security Office, for the payment of family benefits? I'll apply the analogy to the use of electricity. It's like building a second power plant to run two more outlets. The Social Security Office has had the infrastructure it has built and built for many years, the costs of which are known to you. This isn't cheap infrastructure. Our task, from the point of view of the economy and optimization of the use of resources, is to use existing infrastructure. Here we attach another solution, another task, which from a technical point of view is no different from the previous one. This is the connection of another outlet to a power plant that has huge power generating powers. We just need to continue with this comparison today. Bring the cable so you can connect another socket. And we're gonna hook up another one. Family care capital is another solution that we will be able to implement, based on the same data, on the same systems. So much for the ZUS and how the program is implemented. After the change of the scheme, did the benefit go away from the beneficiaries? There's no risk. Today there are indeed fewer branches of the ZUS than municipal offices. It's obvious. As in the case of the program, a good start, ZUS signed agreements with Polish Post and other entities to help people who will have a problem at first in specific places. Together with the Social Insurance Institution, we have an analysis of where there was a relatively large proportion of people using paper applications and especially where our forces are directed. So for example, I'm going to give you a few numbers. Within a few months, when the program was launched, 5,000 55 visits of ZUS employees took place outside the seat of the ZUS. The idea was to help people in different places who might have trouble submitting electronic applications. On the example of a good start, we see that there are no such problems. Let me remind you, this program is already working. Applications are collected until November. At the end of September, the number of parents benefiting from the benefit amounted to 4 million 360 thousand out of 4 million 400 thousand entitled. So, by the end of the selection process... We're down to 40,000. Comparing this rate of application to the pace of previous years, I will say that it is much higher, so there is absolutely no need to worry about digitalisation. By the way, it appears from the CSO data published this week that the Internet access rate for families with children under 16 years of age in Poland is 99.5%. This is one of the highest percentages in this group. Moreover, in the area of Popeger, in those areas where the greatest concerns are raised, we are allocating further funds. Now there is a second selection of applications for computer-equipped children from families living in the Popeerian era. The same was true during the pandemic in the case of foster care, children in foster care. Of course, this was done primarily with a view to remote learning at school at the time, but today it means that we have a much better base and infrastructure. As I said, what the realization of the program looks like today is a good start, and previously a tourist voucher allows us to claim that ZUS will also manage this program. In reply to these questions concerning public procurement law and the opinion of the RCL recommending the consultation of the UOKiK, I inform you that indeed such recommendations were submitted, but RCL accepted our explanations, which included, among other things, our explanations. on the indication that in the previous solution, in the previous project exactly the same solution was applied At that time, we consulted the UOKiK and, by analogy, RCL felt that this opinion was not really needed at the moment. As far as public procurement law is concerned, we are obviously familiar with EU regulations. I would like to stress that the directive, which deals with the application of public procurement law, gives, in its recitals, specific recitals 5, 6 and 7, unless I am mistaken, the possibility of a certain freedom to organise the procurement of services which are services to the community. And so we understand these solutions, this regulation and the benefit of 500+. Finally, I would like to refer to this information about thousands of employees being fired in local governments. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, at the beginning, when it was introduced, of course, with the participation of local governments, the 500+ family programme was employed in the implementation of this programme, with 12 000 people. This number decreased, decreased at a time when the income criterion was abolished and the handling of these applications was much simpler than at the beginning. According to our data, it is currently not 12 000, but 9 000 600 people, with a full-time figure of 4 000 900 people. This means that most of these people are not people who only work with this solution. I have another number of employees that I would like to give you, of course they are in this just mentioned. 1 000 736 persons are persons who receive only allowances or prizes for carrying out tasks under this law. This means that these 1,700 people in this group are people for whom this is an additional task and therefore only benefit from allowances. Of course, this change requires reorganization in local governments, absolutely so. But it absolutely doesn't mean firing 12,000 people. Besides, we are getting a lot of information from different directions, from different cities, that these workers will not be fired at all, because they already have proposals to change their tasks and will be absolutely needed in their municipalities. That doesn't mean, like I said, that 12,000 people will be fired. And I think it's all on my side. If I missed something, of course I'm ready to answer the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u132	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators can report... Maybe you should stay here for a while, or there will be questions. Are there any questions about this? Yes. Senator Ewa Matecka has come forward. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u133	Dear Minister, there is, however, a group of people who will be threatened by dismissals or by the need to look for another form of employment. Please tell me whether you have therefore conducted any consultation with local authorities on this issue not only in the form of information collection. Was there any other kind of consultation with local governments? Secondly, is there a second plan, a plan for, or what, eliminating exclusion or minimising digital exclusion? 'Cause it's like that. Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u134	Yes. As far as local governments and employees are concerned, we had such conversations with local governments and, of course, It's also a matter that I've missed before. As far as possible, the costs of this change also include the costs of reorganisation in local governments, the costs of checks for workers who will be exempted. Moreover, the handling of payments alone will also continue to be financed. From January, there will be no more calls for new applications in local governments, but local authorities will benefit by the end of the settlement period, i.e. by the end of May... they will deal with the payments, the payments of the benefits granted themselves and, of course, the funds are also earmarked for this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u135	Thank you. Senator Janusz... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Barbara Socha: Sorry, there was another question.]] [[Yeah, second question, tied up...]] Oh, there you go. Yes. [[...with the minimization of digital exclusion.]] There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u136	Yes. As far as digital exclusion is concerned, as I said, we don't have the signals to make that a problem. Where these solutions are already working, I mean good start, the ZUS is doing a lot of work and is putting a lot of effort into reaching out to these people. Agreements with local authorities are also signed so that local authorities make available places where ZUS employees could help people having problems with their first application, with the establishment of a profile of PUE ZUS, etc. Even more about notifications that come later, because it was also raised, it is these notifications, notifications that there are decisions, or other, that you need any interaction with the ZUS, can be sent by text messages. So that doesn't mean that a person who doesn't follow PUE ZUS every day will not know that for example. for some reason, the benefit was not granted to her.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u137	Thank you. Senator Janusz Gromek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u138	It's me, Minister. [[Joy in the Chamber]] There's only one thing I'm afraid of. I've been president of the city for 12 years, so I know how some government work was done, and we've been doing okay. But what you said was almost 100% electronically protected by applicants... Right? You said something about 99%. I do now. You know, if he doesn't get through here, he's gonna go back to the Sejm and he's gonna go through the form you're talking about in the U.S.S.S. And I have a question for you. I had contacts with ZUS people out there somewhere, and they were talking about not this 500+ solution that's supposed to come in right now, just that they already had staff shortages to handle anything. That's an absolutely nasty question. I'm just saying what I heard in the CSO, which is why I'm asking, did you do the analysis and calculations that show that there's no problem with that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u139	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u140	Yes, of course, this change is being prepared together with the ZUS, as much as possible, from the very beginning. There are also representatives of the Social Security Office, so if that's the will, I'd be happy to give them the floor. As far as HR security is concerned, as far as I know, it appears that e.g. The good start programme, the service of those applications which could not be carried out automatically for some reason, I am talking about a few percent, is carried out by one branch, a branch in Bialystok, and several dozen employees have been appointed to handle this task. I think the exact numbers are able to give the representatives of the ZUS. The same will be true of the 500+ programme. As I said, from a technical point of view, from the point of view of work organisation, this is an equivalent task, which is very simple to automate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u141	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u142	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, won't the new distribution system disrupt the system of monitoring spending, checking whether it's wasted or not? I ask you this, because in this bill I found a rather brief article about the fact that in such cases managers will pay in kind or order some services. So far, it has seemed that these measures were under quite a lot of social supervision. People, neighbors, watched how it was spent in a given family. There were workers in social services who monitored this because they were particularly predisposed to this task. They were hired to transfer these funds. What's it gonna look like from now on? Will this monitoring and possible decision-making process not be extended too much? Who will decide that the funds in monetary form will be suspended and that the head of the centre will pay them in kind? What's it gonna look like now? Who, specifically, will be responsible for this?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u143	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u144	As far as waste issues are concerned, nothing changes in this process. Under the Social Assistance Act, social workers carry out the task of monitoring the spending of these funds, if there is concern, the suspicion that they may be wasted. And there's no difference what kind These are the means. This applies to family benefits as well as any other benefits. From this point of view, nothing changes. The difference is that when there is a reasonable suspicion, they may apply But this time, not to the municipality, but to the Social Security Office, to suspend the payment of this benefit and transfer it to an account designated by the Centre, by the head or director of the Social Assistance Centre. And with these funds will be purchased some things, material aid. [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, why don't we ask a member of the board of directors of the ZUS to... Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have two questions, including one regarding the submission of applications and the preparation of the Social Security Office. I am not referring to those applications which will be submitted for the next period, i.e. from 1 June. Well, they can be folded from 1 February. I am talking about the migration of data from municipalities to ZUS, but in terms of current proposals. Because I understand it so much that these current applications are valid until June 1st, and the cash is paid monthly. So January 1st must be full data there. For two and a half. months In fact, in 2 months' time, because we will still be struggling with this law, full data must be in the ZUS. Is the ZUS just gonna get away with this? Is he able to do all this? I'm not asking about the communes. I'm asking about the ZUS. Because a branch of the ZUS will accept applications, practically from all over the province. And the second question concerns the payment, the obligation to withdraw to the account. But keeping the account costs money. I know it's pretty much a standard right now, but I don't know if it is. And right now, they're growing rapidly, just because of inflation issues, cash withdrawal costs at the ATM or just in the bank window. Do you know a bank where you can choose cash at no charge? I'm already skipping the cost of running an account. I mean, the ATM charges or the window charges. This isn't about kryptoreklam. Just tell me if there's a bank.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u147	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u148	I'm gonna take a short answer so I don't do cryptoreklama. There are banks, there are bills kept costlessly. This is a free bill, a basic bill... I don't remember what it's called, but there are bills. As far as this continuity and migration of data is concerned, as I said, local governments will continue to pay this benefit until the end of the reference period, which is until the end of May. The proposals submitted this year will be implemented by local authorities by the end of May, in accordance with the agreements. And that's why these costs were partly transferred to next year. As far as data migration is concerned, it is not really necessary to transfer these data, because they are already in the ZUS. They were, you can say, transferred to the ZUS during the implementation of the tourist voucher, because it is based on the same solution. It's the same data. We're really talking about the PESEL base, to which the ZUS has the same access as local governments. Information about the benefits granted 500+ is known to the ZUS and this data does not need to be transferred at all. As far as detailed information is concerned, I shall cast the floor to the representatives of the Social Security Office.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u149	Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I'd like to ask you a question as if by continuing the thread raised by Senator Gromek. We are aware that, unfortunately, there was no solid question from the government about the additional obligations imposed on the employees of the Social Insurance Institution and there was no expressed concern about whether they would actually carry out another obligation that you would impose on them. We are being informed that there is a threat of a warning strike at the moment. I would like to ask whether this is really true and whether, therefore, the time limits for the payment of further benefits may be in danger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u151	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u152	The deadlines for subsequent payments are not at risk. As for collective disputes or the threat of taking a strike, I would ask you very much to respond to the representatives of the Social Security Office present here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u153	Are there any more questions for the Minister? 'Cause I'm gonna have a representative of the U.S.S.A. right now. Of course, the Minister doesn't need to know everything. No questions. Thank you, Minister. I'll ask Mr. Mariusz Oneak, who is a member of the board of the Social Security Office. Senator Krzysztof Elephant begins.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! I will continue the matter that interests me, namely the measures that are likely to be wasted or wrongly spent. Now, as practice points out, this is a small fraction of all the funds that have been transferred so far, but in my opinion the situation will change dramatically because an army of people who were deeply interested in this system will disappear. They were, in general, social workers. And at the moment, yes, social assistance will work, but if I put it colloquially, they may no longer have a heart to look at it as carefully as they do. do not carefully look at how other benefits paid by the Social Security Office, the type of pension or pension are issued. Is the Social Insurance Institution prepared for a wave of interest or social concern about how these funds are spent? Who's gonna monitor this? And what will it be? 'Cause it's not exactly in the regulations. ..co-operation.. in this area between the Social Insurance Institution and social assistance units or social services centres? It says the manager will either pay in kind or order services, but how will this happen? I am afraid that the waste of these resources will not be stopped quickly and effectively, and the money paid for the welfare of children... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u155	Mrs. Senator... The question is clear. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The question is clear, right? Mr. Marshal calmed me down. Thank you very much.]] Yeah, yeah. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I will refer to the question and statements of the Minister, who has already taken a position in this area. It remains for me to confirm that the Social Insurance Institution in terms of the waste of funds, whether these are measures resulting from 300+ or even from 500+, i.e. from the draft law, or from subsequent laws, it will de facto be subject to the same regulations that have been in operation so far, and will certainly cooperate with the local government and social services in this area. This means that all information which would possibly cause the payment of the benefit to be suspended will be implemented immediately by the undertaking. I also refer here to the Minister's statement in the context, for example. centralisation of the service, i.e. de facto the establishment of such a team that supports 300+ services. This is one place in Poland, and therefore there are no possible problems with dispersion or reaching structures that are responsible for direct service of the service of the service. And at the same time the bet will be able to commission, as it is so far, e.g. conducting an environmental interview and consequently slowing down suspension. As the senator mentioned, in fact, the scale of the de facto waste of resources... As far as I can remember the data I've read, there were about 100 cases. And I think that in this area the plant is absolutely prepared to perform such suspension, practically ad hoc, at the time of obtaining information and transferring funds to the benefit and account indicated by the head of the welfare unit.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u157	So this is gonna be a situation where one institution is gonna pay and another is gonna control it? 'Cause that's what I realized.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u158	That means it's gonna be exactly the same situation as it is right now. That means spending money, e.g. in material form, will be realized by... [[The ZUS will pay, the local government will control or the local government services. Is that how it's gonna be, Minister?]] That's... [[Idea.]] That's right.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u159	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u160	Mr. Director, we have received information that you are prepared and that you already have the data you need. But there is this problem of social security and contact with authorities outside the country. The Marshal's offices, meaning the ROPS, and the dead, were Boricated with it. The vampires did it better, and now it's really coming on to you. I know that the voivodships will participate in this, that you will exchange information, etc., but I do not recognize the ZUS as an institution working in the field, that is, exchanging, requesting documentation, etc. Perhaps the voivods will continue to do this well or better, but I fear that adding another link in this process will make it simply inefficient. Luckily, they won't feel it. Because we have a change in the text of the Act, those who are beneficiaries or should potentially be. The question is, is this going to be effective? That's what I'm talking about. It's about this contact with external institutions. Like I said, I can't imagine ZUS fighting in this external area, except Poland, for documentation, for a certificate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u161	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u162	Mr Senator, as far as issues are concerned, as you have rightly pointed out, the possible payment of the benefit in the guaranteed amount, this is certainly a very important change resulting from the optimization and improvement of the conditions for the bill. In this context, I think it will be very noticeable by the citizens, and in fact by the children who are the beneficiaries of this law. In the context of international cooperation... The ZUS certainly has very much experience in cooperation. As far as the coordination of pension benefits is concerned, we work with many countries. We also have special cell phones for that. We know what possible disadvantages are, but we also know what solutions are implemented in the electronic information exchange system, the EESSI. We are here, I think, a European leader in the implementation of this solution. And in this context, the exchange of information in an electronic manner, I believe, should be. Besides, powering the database should speed up this process, not slow it down.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u163	Thank you. Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Director! I'm sorry, but I'm going to repeat the question I asked the Minister. Perhaps I will not put you in a predicament and ask you whether the Ministry has consulted you on these further challenges by placing them on your shoulders, on your neck, but I would like to ask you about the situation and concerns that exist among the employees of the Social Insurance Institution. I want to ask you if it is true that there is indeed a threat of a warning strike. Do you have this knowledge and do you take any action to prevent... I am thinking, above all, of meeting the deadlines for the payment of benefits. I'm asking for information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u165	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u166	Thank you so much for these questions. One thing at a time... We're absolutely... [[If you can't answer any...]] I'm able to answer that. [[...the question, we'll ask for an answer in writing.]] I will try to answer in an exhaustive manner so that there is no doubt. Firstly, the government website absolutely informs us of plans to transfer tasks to the Social Insurance Institution. This is, as the Minister noted, such a long-term plan, indicating that further benefits supporting the family are some kind of elements of the scenery... If we are talking about 300+, the development of this project is five hundred, later possibly RKO projects etc. As for the burden-bearing issues... Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you, right now, that one cell that carries out tasks related to 300+, and basically ends them, as the Minister has also noted, is 25 people. Ladies and gentlemen, 98% The conclusions are the data from today's service, so to speak, without touching a finger by man, these were automatic decisions. This is the technological advantage that the plant is currently using. The principles of the law in this respect provide the basis for 98% 500+ claims were also dealt with in a fully automated manner. I am aware that the adoption of another law may cause the need to increase the number of such a cell, a cell created specifically within the structure of an insurance undertaking. It is for the service of benefits, but, Ladies and gentlemen, we as an establishment must pay attention to the efficient definition of resources. We are implementing further e-laws, further e-state services, such as e-ZLA, for example e-Company, which make this work in certain areas disappear. In this respect, we use the available resources and use the technology and infrastructure we have. We've done a lot of work, and this infrastructure is ready to serve in the interests of the state. As for the third case, the issue of the threat of strike... Ladies and gentlemen, we have 11 union organizations. It is true that some of these organizations filed a lawsuit and claims while at the same time entering into a collective dispute with us. We have a total of 3 collective disputes, but I would like to point out that all these disputes are at an absolutely preliminary stage. With each side of the community, we're having conversations, the president of the Social Security Office, and the professor is also having conversations... Well, let's not kid ourselves when it comes to the issue of union demands, it's mostly about wages. These salaries in the Social Insurance Institution have increased significantly in recent years. I remember the period, a few years when these salaries were absolutely frozen and there was simply no growth. What's going on right now, these successive increases in the next few years, that's the result. in fact, to complement the financial budget of the establishment, the salary budget that was neglected in previous years. And all this time, Professor, the president of the ZUS is working towards it. This year, also as part of the savings... An agreement has been signed with our unions, which somehow meets the needs, perhaps to a small extent, but this is the way to resolve this dispute and seek consensus with the unions. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the threat of strike, it is really at a minimum level. As regards the payment of benefits, ladies and gentlemen, the payment of benefits is carried out in an automated manner through electronic banking, regardless of the day-to-day handling of persons who grant benefits in terms of handling initial or replacement applications.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u167	Thank you very much. But just in case, I'd like to ask you... Twelve thousand people dealt with 500+ applications in the local government. In the voivodships, I think, I estimate, I'm sure a few hundred thousand... A few hundred people, I'm sorry. So I think about 13,000 were in charge of paying 500+. You're talking about automating, and I'm happy for you. But will you confirm that all these duties, which were carried out by about 13 thousand people in the local government and in the voivodeship, will be carried out by the Social Security Office, will be taken over without problems for the recipients?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u168	As far as the task is concerned, I absolutely confirm that the tasks are... These are not tasks, Ladies and gentlemen, which will be added to employees serving benefits, benefits or long-term benefits. These are people... right now 300+, and in the future 500+, if, of course, the government decides... These will be separate jobs, to serve only these benefits. And it will absolutely not be at the expense of short- and long-term benefits, i.e. those basic obligations that the establishment carries out.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u169	Thank you very much, sir. And there are no more questions. [[Member of the Management Board of Zakład Ubezpieczeń Społecznych Mariusz Dziełak: Thank you kindly.]] I'm opening a discussion. And I ask Senator Richard Majer to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u170	Honourable Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! The programme, which is included in the Act amending the Law on State aid in raising children and certain other laws, received a negative recommendation from the State of the opposition Senators at the joint committee meeting. And the main sin was indeed So to say, summing up the discussion, it goes from local government to the Social Insurance Institution. But I, because I was the rapporteur of this bill in the previous term, would like to remind you that this is not the only sin of this program. Because this program has many sins. And his first sin, which also sounded in this room, was actually formulated before this program... Because when we announced in 2015 that when we came to power, we would be helping families with children, then we were accused of not having the means to do so, that there was no financial means. And we have implemented this program and found the funds. And it was the original sin. And it turned out that something that was declared in the campaign could be realized, which in Polish politics was not, Dear State, such a common one. But this program had more sins. In this room, there were voices that the program would lead to the deactivation of professional women, that women would not work, just sit in their homes and raise their children, and only care for their children. There were also voices here that the program, which is not embedded in the income criterion, could not be a good program. And we have assumed from the beginning its universality. There were also voices that And it was another sin of the program. We spend money on the second child, not on the first one. Which we changed after a while, and that was bad too, because then we had to make a profit criterion. And so, Dear Sire, we come in connection with this sinful program to a situation where at present more than 6.5 million children in Poland receive funding of PLN 500 per month. And we come to a situation where over the years 2016 and 2020 we have spent 134 billion PLN on this programme. And out of this amount we have spent more than PLN 1.5 billion on handling, which I will stress. Dear country, one of the features of social policy, which each government, whether it is on the right or on the left, must guide itself and which it must take into account, is, Dear country, respect for the general interest and respect for efficiency. So all the time we're assessing how the measures we're putting into social reality translate into social reality. And if we can cut administrative costs somewhere, that's what we're doing. Because if we don't do this, Dear Lords, then the Supreme Chamber of Control will prosecute the rulers for waste. And she'll be right. So that's what we're doing today. Today we are reducing these resources for administrative services. 'Cause, ladies and gentlemen, we've wiped the road at the Social Security Department, there's already an expedition, and there's going to be family care capital in a minute. And there, Dear State, will be those benefits which do not require too much operations and actions from both officials and citizens themselves who are asking for help. Ladies and gentlemen, in social policy, it is very often that someone else is giving money and someone else is assessing their spending. Dear country, the entire social assistance system is so designed that this social assistance system does not work for all families who today receive 500+. Part of them is tested when it is suspected that there may be an irregularity. Because it is, Dear State, so that the 500+ programme is a non-profit-based programme, it is a universal programme, so that the benefit is received by many more people than those who come to social assistance or are in the field of interest in the social assistance system. Because let me remind you that in the social assistance system, this part, which is being served by employees of the social assistance system, by social workers... Dear country, it is decreasing, at the moment it is within 2%, 3%, 4% depending on the municipality, on the city, on the environment. So that this is not a very wide environment, but rather narrow and narrow, thanks to the fact that we have raised clearly, very clear income in families. Dear country, this programme itself over recent years has caused Poland to move from the twenty-seventh, twenty-sixth place to the first ten countries that support families in social rankings within the European Union. This, dear fellow Members, must be remembered by considering what we are talking about today. Respecting the general interest, efficiency is crucial. But, ladies and gentlemen, that's not all. Because there were voices here, and that makes me very happy, because it shows that the senators are interested in the fate of the workers who perform these tasks, on whose shoulders 500+ rested... Their fate really arouses our interest. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is also so, and this must be borne in mind that there are no staff available in the social assistance system at the moment, and there are no social workers available. And not long ago, when we amended the Social Assistance Act, we constructed a solution that helps people who have no social worker education within a year to change this situation through postgraduate studies. Indeed, we, Dear Member States, in social assistance centres, both small, communal, urban and communal, as well as large social assistance centres, lack of hands to work, lack of social workers. And this recent novel, which was also initiated by the family ministry, the novel of the Social Welfare Act allows for this change. One-year postgraduate studies for people who have so far done a number of activities, but who have not been social workers by education, enable, Dear State, to acquire new skills, new qualifications and enter the area of much-needed social work in our reality. Hence, my dear fellow Members, I would encourage you to consider whether, like the committee, by a majority of the Senators of the opposition, we would like to reject this construction. I encourage you to reflect, because it is a good program. It is a program that helps families who have a general social recognition. And I am firmly convinced that the Social Insurance Institution, as another component of the family support system, will also manage this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u171	Thank you, Senator. Let me inform you that the list of speakers... Oh, and Senator Tyszkiewicz. There you go. And the senator's still on the phone? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Write it down.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u172	I'll try briefly. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to say something from my own experience. In 2016, I was the president of the city, a self-government officer from Lubuskie Voivodeship, from which Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska comes. Despite the fact that we are on different sides of the political barricade, we were friends and very fond of Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska, who was sort of the face of the 500+ programme. When the 500+ program was supposed to go to local governments, to our OPS, we were defending ourselves against it, saying that we weren't prepared that this is another task that would be underfunded. But then Minister Rafalska convinced us that this 500+ programme should go to local governments, so that it would be closer to the people, so that the officials doing their job here, the difficult task, could indeed have control over it and be closer to the people. I am, of course, in favour of what the Minister said, i.e. For simplification, for digitization, I'm all for it, I've always been for it. But with all these savings... Well, I miss the argument used by Minister Rafalska that in OPS this money will actually be under some kind of supervision and it will not really be a simple handout of money, but giving away money so that the money is used efficiently. At the time, we were defending ourselves against this, but we were persuaded by Minister Rafalska, and then we stood at the height of the task and created cells and institutions that did it well. And here I agree with Senator Elephant, who was just talking about this monitoring, about how it was much better to monitor and make sure that money was spent well in OPS. 'Cause here's the thing: do you give away money? When we say that the success of the rulers was that a huge amount of money was distributed or used effectively. We can now discuss whether the job will lose 5,000 people... The Minister said that there are incomplete jobs, that not everyone has been used only and exclusively for 500+ service so far. So we can discuss whether it's going to be 11,000 people or 5,000 people, but all this time it's a large group of people who, by the local government, by us, have been convinced to get really involved and who are going to lose this job at the moment. Although you are actually right about the shortage of OPS staff at the moment, so I think these people are going to be developed in some way. But when it comes to the fact that OPS employees are currently being prepared to perform their function in OPS, to be disabled, to be sent to annual training to carry out these tasks... Ladies and gentlemen, I am appealing to the rulers here to increase the money pool for these workers, because they are working for a penny. I'm actually very impressed with the OPS employees that they want to get involved for so little money. The social worker has 80 families, some of whom are pathological families. Every time I went to the social services center and told them that I was facing the work of these people, I heard them, because they were asking, Mr. President, okay, but when was the raise? So that I also call on you to appreciate the work of social workers and increase the funding or resources that flow to OPS so that they can increase wages. These people are actually doing a very important, difficult job and just sending someone for a year's training to do this job, that's not enough. These people should just make a decent living, and that's what I call it. Finally, I would like to say that I have the impression that the local government was used a little instrumentally, because when it was needed, it was available at that time, and today... I hope that together with the local government, you will see that these workers will not be treated so that they will feel exploited and that they will be deprived of their work. I hope that they will remain in this system and continue to perform a very important role. And finally, I'd like to address Senator Majer, but I don't think he's here. The senator was talking about an idea for the 500+ program. Unless I'm wrong, and I don't want to go into too much debate here, it wasn't the idea of a PiS. There was talk of 300+, 500+... I admit that I had my doubts about this too personally, but today, after years, I judge this program positively, even though I am on the other side when it comes to political views. I can actually admit that I was wrong at the time, and I was negative about it. Today, in retrospect, I'm judging it positively. Indeed, the PiS party risked it, because the fact that there was no money for it was true. The money wasn't there, but the state took a risk, you entered the 500+ program, and praise you for it, because it worked. Economic development of Poland, for which many people and institutions worked This includes, among others: The government that has been working for this since 2004 did indeed generate more revenue for the state budget, and this allowed this programme to be implemented. So it wasn't just the PiS, it wasn't just the PiS idea. But it worked out okay. The main purpose of this program, if I'm not mistaken, was to increase childhood. There's a failure here, but I'm not gonna dwell on it. Is there an increased childhood? More babies are born? No, you don't. You don't have any more babies. On the contrary, there are fewer, so that this task has not been accomplished. As far as women are concerned and their exclusion, when it comes to deactivating women, my understanding is that many women unfortunately stay at home. Minister, I have my data on the deactivation of women, too. I'm not saying that... I was expecting far more deactivation, I admit. I thought that by far more women would want to stay at home, and here I was wrong, but actually a lot of people stay at home. Yeah, I'm talking about women. They're gonna have a huge problem. If they want to get back to work at the age of 30, 40, 50, that's gonna be a problem, but I won't dwell on it. And one more thing, quite important. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2016 you completed your flagship project. You guys did it. I'm down for it. But how much today, in 2021, is 500 PLN worth of 2016? I bet in a minute, as we approach the next election, you will raise this amount to 700 or 1,000 zlotys. It is also a tool of political struggle, it is also used instrumentally. Today at the time 500 zlotys this is I'm comparing this to the year 2016 - 350, maybe 400 PLN. [[420.]] Okay, 420. So that the 500+ programme, as I said, from a perspective of years, I'm judging positively. It's not as colorful as Senator Majer's colored it, but somewhere there we can find a compromise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u173	Thank you, Senator. Senator Dorota Tobiaszewska, please. [[Tobishovska.]] Tobishovska, I'm so sorry. [[Tobishovska, yes, yes. I'm on my way.]] You're welcome. [[I'll take it from here, if you don't mind, Mr. Marshal.]] But... [[Then I can come over, okay?]] Otherwise, the senators would listen to the person sitting back.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! Dear Ministers and Senators! I'd like to conclude on a case like this. Since, from 1 July this year, applications for a good start could only be submitted electronically, I have done something that I would like to say, because it is positive. In my senator's office, I've made the place available to possibly help all those people who would like to get information on how such a request can be made, how these ePUAPs can make things go away and so on. Well, I thought there would actually be a problem with communicating, using this ePUAP, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, in my office, I have established cooperation with the ZUS. Such meetings with the Social Security Office were 6 and I would like to tell you that not one person has volunteered. Not one person has applied to my senator's office to help fill out a request for a good start. I am saying this because at the family committee meeting, as well as here in the Chamber, there were similar voices, and there was a great deal of concern that those who submitted such proposals would not be able to cope. Well, in my own experience... And I'm from the mining city, and my workplace has 6,000 people. We even made a commercial, there were all kinds of posters. I really thought people wouldn't be able to file that motion. And I would like to say here that there is no such fear. Not one person reported to my office, which is in the city center, available, with an elevator. I think what the Minister said... [[Voice from the room: So this is...]] Yes, Mr. Senator. As the Minister says, 99.9% people have access to the Internet, it may sound too general, but when I say It's me, and I'm gonna give you an example from my town, and it's gonna sound very, very credible. It really is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u175	Thank you, Senator Dorota Tobiszowska. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alicja Chybicka, Aleksander Szwed, Halina Bieda, Maciej Łuczak, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Mariusz Gromko, Janusz Gromek, Ewa Matecka, Benjamin Godyla, Janusz Pęcherz, Robert Mamątów, Aleksander Pociej, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Joanna Sekuła submitted their speeches in the discussion to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days. The text of the Act is contained in print No 499 and the report of the Commission In print No 499 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Report from the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 17 September 2021 amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on certain other days. Four amendments were tabled during the discussion at the committee meeting, which were accepted by the High Commissions. The committees ask the Senate to approve the attached draft resolution. Now, the justification. The Act of 10 January 2018 on the restriction of trade on Sundays and holidays and on certain other days entered into force on 1 March 2018. The provisions contained therein provided for the gradual restriction of trade and the execution of trade activities in commercial establishments on Sundays and holidays and on 24 December and on Saturday immediately preceding Easter. Initially, the assessment of the functioning of the provisions of the Act, carried out using the experience of the State Labour Inspection collected during the carrying out of inspection activities related to compliance with the provisions of the Act by traders engaged in commercial activities, indicated a high degree of respect for the provisions of the Act by entrepreneurs. However, the labour inspectors have assessed that certain provisions of the Act do not function in accordance with the intention of the legislator, calling for a number of amendments to be made to the Act. It is worth noting that in the public forum there were less and less frequent voices calling into question the objective pursued by designers of legal solutions that limit the activity of commercial establishments on Sundays and holidays. A comprehensive assessment of the impact of the trade restriction on Sundays by the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology at the beginning of 2019, i.e. one year after the entry into force of the Act, showed that the introduction of trade restriction on Sundays did not have negative effects on retail trade. Not only the positive aspects related to the situation of micro-entrepreneurs and small shops, but also the greater satisfaction of employees and their families, the development of tourist services, accommodation, restaurant and widely understood economy of leisure time were observed. It should be made clear that the restriction of trade on Sundays is a support for many other industries, including tourism, agrotourism, gastronomy, hotels, recreation and culture. Such regulation brings benefits to the entire economy of the country, moreover, this issue also concerns our model of life, i.e. social and cultural issues, even civilization. It is precisely this kind of consideration that determines the trade restrictions already applied in Europe in the countries of the old Union. Unfortunately, the cases of incorrect application of the exemptions provided for in Article have increased over time. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 Act allowing trade and trade-related activities to be carried out on Sundays and holidays. This shall in particular apply to the cases referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 points 6, 7 and 27 of the Act, i.e. the exclusion of trade bans in commercial establishments where the dominant activity consists of trade in newspapers, public transport tickets, tobacco products, tickets for games of chance and betting, in post offices within the meaning of the Law of 23 November 2012, in commercial establishments where trade is carried out by an entrepreneur who is a natural person solely on his own behalf, on his own account. The control activities carried out by labour inspectors show that traders apply these exemptions when the sale of tobacco products is also carried out in their actual commercial establishments, in public food shops or in alcohol sales. In order to benefit from these exemptions, traders change the nature of the dominant activity in CEIDG and in the REGON register, despite the lack of actual grounds for making the changes. It could be caused by a factor... It should be pointed out that the Labour Inspector does not have the authority to examine whether the activities indicated by the entrepreneur as dominant are of such a nature in reality. Consequently, it is not possible to verify whether the sale of the goods in question is indeed dominant. It is not without significance that the dominant activity is defined by the trader for all his activities and that the exemptions concern individual commercial establishments. Following the entry into force of the Act, there was also a problem of avoiding the trade ban on Sundays by the appointment of traders operating commercial establishments, initially mainly grocery stores, to the exclusion referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 point 7 of the Act, i.e. have the status of post within the meaning of the Law of 23 November 2012 on postal law. Over time, this legal gap also began to be used by large commercial networks as well as small entrepreneurs, making trade restrictions on Sundays increasingly fictitious. There is no doubt that, in such cases, there is a breach of the principle of fair competition and intervention becomes necessary. In the case of grocery stores with a signed agency agreement, the courts to which labour inspectors refer applications for punishment shall consider that there has been no breach of the trade ban due to the conclusion by the accused operators of agency contracts with the postal operator, which results in the trader becoming a postal agent and, in the view of the court, it is irrelevant what postal services are involved in the conduct of business. In order to address this problem, statutory intervention was essential. In my opinion, the ban on trade on Sundays is already adopted in Poland and more and more people realise that this civilization leap also affects us, because we are in Europe, we have more and more financial resources in our wallets and this leisure time needs to be used differently. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u177	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u178	Senator rapporteur, are those exemptions that allow for trade on Sunday involved trade in denationalities?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u179	Well, then I have to look at the bill because we have 32 exemptions, and I don't know if... At the committee meeting, we did not discuss such a problem and I will not answer you right now. [[I'll ask the minister. Thank you, Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u180	Thank you very much. [[Well, I didn't find it...]] Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u181	Mr. Senator, I don't know if you recognize points 28, 29 and 30. It's about registered sales. I'm not hiding that I have signals... I even just talked to people who run small family shops. The idea is that these little family stores can function... [[Yes.]] This bill was primarily intended to hit large commercial networks, which I am against to make it clear. I'm against a trade ban on Sundays, but that's not the point. There's a bill, that's fine. But begging voices from entrepreneurs who run bakeries and small shops... There's no way they're only gonna get 50% from selling bread. Your turn. And these little entrepreneurs, these little family businesses, they're begging to cross out points 28 and 30 about this limit. We talk about small shops all the time. or at least reduce this threshold from 50% to 20% in the case of the sale of this bread. It's unreal, so only from the sale of bread can a small shop sustain itself by selling on Sundays. Have you considered this country, and what do you think? I don't know if you understand me correctly...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u182	Yeah, yeah. But I don't recall that problem. It is the Minister who should answer these questions and the drafter of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u183	Thank you very much. Then maybe the Minister... Senator Adam Szejnfeld:
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u184	Thank you very much. I would like to ask, Senator rapporteur, what is the difference between the wife, son or daughter of the entrepreneur from Monday to Friday and Saturday and the wife, son or daughter of the entrepreneur on Sunday. Is there a difference?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u185	It is written here: the trader referred to in paragraph. 1 point 27, may benefit from the free assistance of the spouse, his own children, the children of the spouse, the adopted children, parents, stepmothers, stepfathers, siblings, grandchildren and grandparents. If he's not employed in this company or in this store...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u186	I'd like to ask you if your marshal will allow you, sir, to believe that such a distinction and such restriction are appropriate. I'm not asking if he's part of pro-family policy anymore... If a small entrepreneur, because we're talking about small ones, because they're the only ones who can open shops then, he can hire a son or a wife from Monday to Saturday... But if he wants to work on Sundays, he has to say figuratively, throw his wife or daughter out of the job, because the state, the law designers and supporters of this law, so you wish that the entrepreneur of the wife or daughter would throw them out of the store on Sundays.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u187	But I don't recall the amendment being made on this subject... [[But did you...]] But now you're asking... You were at the committee meeting, and you could have tabled an amendment... [[We talked about it, I raised it.]] ...so it can be regulated differently.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u188	Then I have a question. Maybe I'll surprise the senator because I made such an amendment, it's so complex. E.g. Me and Senator Kwiatkowski... [[That's good, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[I've put together...]] I would like to ask if you recommend the unpaid work of family members, e.g. Wife. Why should she work free of charge on Sundays?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u189	But it's not a question for me, it's a question for the legislator. I'm the committee's rapporteur. If there is an amendment, we will debate this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u190	And the second question I want to ask. And what will happen in the case of such aid, because in the law is the definition of aid... [[Help, yes.]] ...if someone gets into an accident at work? How will this be treated by the organs then?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u191	Well, we haven't considered that. I don't know how to approach it, because it's a company...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u192	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have any questions? Thank you very much. The bill was submitted by Members. Mr Janusz Śniadek was authorized to present the position of the Members of the Parliament's draft law, but he is not. So I'd like to ask... [[What do you mean? There's no envoy again?]] ... Minister Stanisław Swede, who is present, or wishes to speak on the bill under consideration. Yes, there is no envoy. The Minister wishes to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to apologize for the absence of Mr Janusz Śniadek, but today for family reasons he could not attend the Senate meeting. At yesterday's committee meeting, he presented the proposal, discussed it in detail and answered the questions, so that I think that all those interested who were at the committee meeting yesterday could see the reason for this amendment. Of course, we're talking about trade on Sundays, about reducing trade on Sundays. This is a subject that has been causing emotions for many, many years. We have supporters and opponents of trade on Sundays. The law, which we have implemented, I will remind you, was a prognosis of the citizens' trade restriction project on Sundays, more than 560 thousand signatures were collected. On the basis of this project, a trade restriction law was created on Sundays. Of course, during the work in the Sejm it changed shape, we introduced various exceptions to this law, also resulting from the fact that simply in situations where it is necessary to conduct trade, this trade could function. And we seemed to have reached a consensus. During the period of validity of the law, during the first period, we also held meetings with employers' organisations that are associated with trade organisations and trade unions on the initiative of the Ministry. There were some problems, but it seemed that these problems could be resolved through dialogue, as well as by clarifying the intention of the law itself, which was adopted. Well, it turns out that there are, however, provisions in this law that have been used to circumvent this law. One such provision, exceptions, was the change that we introduced in the course of our work in the Sejm, the change concerning postal law. She was based on EU solutions. The point was that, according to postal law, we cannot restrict such activities. That's why it came out. On this basis, however, various attempts to circumvent the rules began to emerge. It's been getting stronger lately. Therefore, Members, because the draft is parliamentary, have prepared an amendment to this law in order to significantly limit it. In this case, as with other exceptions, the principle of dominant activity has been introduced, in this case it is 50%. In total, there are 32 exceptions, including what we would now introduce, and 7 exceptions have an overwhelming activity. There's a bakery and a bakery that the senator asked about earlier. Thus, where there is a dominant activity in the law, the 50% condition would have to be met. that activity. There is also a record in this law if any of the employers would like to use it. The point is for the labour inspection to be able to check and control these cases. During the committee meeting, Senator Majer tabled an amendment which led to the threshold of this overwhelming activity being reduced to 40%. The Commission accepted this amendment. In this respect, this change is important. There was also a theme about doing business and helping a family that is trading itself. We're talking the way it is in the Aid Act... If someone hires someone, the person becomes an employee and then falls under this law, and if he is an employee, he has a day off on Sundays, because that is the law on restricting trade on Sundays. There have also been proposals in this respect. There is also a set of amendments prepared by the social partners who have signed the proposal. It's up to the Senate whether or not these amendments will be processed. On the part of our ministry, there is support for the changes sealing this bill. There is no government position on this amendment of the law. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u194	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u195	Will the possibility of trading in commercial establishments continue to be in those establishments that trade in religious religion, that is, some of the elements needed for religious worship?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u196	Mr. Marshal, yes. Art. 6 point 5: In commercial establishments where the dominant activity consists of trade in souvenirs or devotives, it will be possible to do so in these exact establishments, but here is the condition concerning the dominant activity, i.e. in this case it will also have to be retained if the amendment is adopted, this 40% share of the dominant activity. [[What's that?]] This is the amendment accepted by the committees. If the High Senate accepts such an amendment, then it will be 40%. That is the amendment after the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u197	Anyone else... I have a question about what's gonna happen when that helper gets into an accident at work. How will it be treated, whether it will be treated like an accident at work or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u198	It won't be considered an accident at work because he's not an employee. [[This isn't a job contract.]] He's gonna be able to get his sick leave normally, but it's not gonna be treated as an accident at work.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u199	I do not wish to argue with the Minister, but in such a situation a man may file a lawsuit to the court for recognition of the existence of an employment relationship, establishing the existence of an employment relationship. And if it's... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Maybe.]] ...every Sunday, it may turn out that the court will determine it. And then what?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u200	If the court had determined him... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Because there's a gap here, isn't there?]] If the court had determined him, then yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u201	That's on a case-by-case basis. Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u202	Minister, did you consider at the committee meeting because I did not attend the committee meeting, I had other committee meetings to enable micro-entrepreneurs who are personally engaged in trade, employing in a shop, e.g. Students and pensioners?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u203	There was a discussion on this subject, but such an amendment was not finally tabled. [[She didn't stay?]] This was an amendment from this block of amendments which the social partners presented at the committee meeting. [[She wasn't accepted?]] If she's reported and voted out in the Senate, then of course she'll be... There was a question... a question... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Retirement and Retirement...]] ...yeah, pensioners, students... [[Students, pensioners and pensioners.]] Yeah, that's right. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: It is reported.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u204	I think there were some unemployed people out there, but let's just leave that alone. So, can I make an amendment like that? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I may answer, Mr. Senator. Such an amendment is now complex.]] It's complex, okay. And second question. It is about family members, but it is about the possibility of using their work for money.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u205	There was also a discussion at the committee meeting. We explained that if we were talking about help, it was free help, so to speak. And when it comes to paying aid, we're already in the employment sphere, and there's a problem, I'd say, about labour law. If there is an employee, he also benefits from the restriction of trade on Sundays. If the legislator decides to turn this group on, we'll turn it on, but here, as I say, is a conflict with labour law. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u206	Thank you very much, Minister... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you...]] Oh, and Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u207	Minister, it may be that, as far as devolution is concerned, this dominant activity is 40%. , and in other cases 50% Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u208	No, no. In any case, in which case he'll be... Mr. Marshal, in any case, when it comes to the exception for a dominant activity, there will be 40%. In other cases, there is no such objection. If point 1 is to be said at liquid fuel stations, any activity at liquid fuel stations is permitted because that is the law. Where there is a dominant activity, this condition will apply 40%. [[I thought the dominant activity was more than half.]] [[Voice from the room: It was like this.]] It was. [[That's why I'm asking you this question.]] [[Well, logic would point that way.]] [[But that's a change, right? Because it was 50%.]] There was 50% in the bill's draft. ... [[I see.]] ...and the amendment says 40%. [[This brings down to 40% and retains the concept of "predominant activity."]] Yes, sir. Yes. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u209	Thank you very much. There's no... Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! First of all, before I go to the point, a few reflections and reminders. It seems that this is a very important subject, since it appears so often in Parliament, and in the Seym, and in the Senate, important and probably controversial. As the Minister said, people in Poland are divided into those who support the ban on trade on Sunday, and those who oppose. Me and my formation are adversaries. This is known, but I stress this and remind you again, especially since this will also be a justification for the proposals and amendments that I will present in a moment. Let me remind you that, as the Civic Coalition, we put together here, in the Senate, a bill to suspend the ban on trade on Sundays. This draft law was adopted by the Senate, at the beginning of this year it was sent to the Sejm and in this Sejm in an unauthorized manner at least with regard to the principles of parliamentarianism, and not to the rules of the rules of law, it is frozen in the so-called. A seym freezer. It is not considered either yes or no, as if you had the majority in the Seym, were ashamed or afraid to take up the subject. And it's worth picking up, and for example. vote against if you don't like it, not leave it in the closet on the bottom shelf. But I would like to remind you not only to say again that certain decisions have already taken place here, but that this is the direction that is being taken in public and legislative, parliamentary debate. Another question, as regards these often raised truths, is the word "truth" in quotes concerning the prohibition of trade on Sundays, then... Because it's always said that in all countries or most countries... etc., etc. I would like to say that in Europe, there is no ban in 63% of countries in Europe. And it's not just a ban. There is no limit. In 63% of countries there is not a single restriction on trade on Sundays, in 37% of countries there are some restrictions, but there is not a single country where there would be a ban. I am saying this to show how false the claims and the thesis are that in most countries there is a ban that there are restrictions in some countries, etc. In contrast, there is not a single country where there is such a ban, and only 37% of countries have such a limitation. If we were to consider not all of Europe 'Cause I told you about Europe. Only the European Union itself, it will turn out that only 9 countries in the 28th... Britain is no longer here, i.e. 9 out of 27 countries are limited, and in all other countries there are no restrictions. They keep telling citizens in Poland that it's the other way around, and that's a lie. Poles are fed lies all the time. Come on. I could quote data about the world, but I'm not going to talk about it anymore, because I'm probably not all interested in what's going on in Asia, North America, South America, I'm not talking about Africa anymore. In this country, in our country, those parts of the world, and especially their citizens, are often treated unevenly with regard to the view of our citizens or European citizens. But I would like to say that in these almost 200 countries, including all Catholic, Christian countries, including those in which compliance with religious rules is much higher than in Poland. There is no trade ban on Sundays. Finally, I would like to say that, as far as the 37% are concerned, , i.e. the vast minority, countries in Europe where there are restrictions, it is very often the rules that say nothing at all about Sunday, but they say: one day a week. Yes, in most countries, but not all countries, you choose Sunday, but you don't talk about Sunday in the rules, you just talk about a week off from trade. But anyway, as I said, it concerns a complete minority. Few of this, in these countries most often it is not state law or federal law, but local law. It is the local authorities that decide whether or not there is a restriction, and if so, what is it. Not national authority. Leaving this outline, this introduction, I want to go specifically to this law and say that I have already submitted proposals and amendments to this law to your marshal. The main proposal concerns the rejection of this law, and if the rejection request had not been granted a majority, I had tabled some substantive amendments. Their subject was also in the question section. The first package of amendments will deal with the issue of payment and free of charge of assistance in the shop, so to speak, an entrepreneur who has the right, because it meets the requirements of this restrictive law, to operate on Sundays. First of all, we propose that these people should be employed both in a paid form and free of charge, and especially in order to eliminate the absurdity that I presented in the question, namely that if the wife is employed for a contract of employment, she will not be able to work on Sunday, to be taken out of the store, and in her place must be employed someone else for that one day, because she is employed. This is completely absurd. In addition, we propose here an extension of the catalogue of eligible persons, because we are talking about preliminary, outgoing, spouses, children, etc., but we forget about 2 very important groups of people. First of all, about the people who are in common life It's a legal concept based on the law, not a common concept. Many laws in Poland take into account the same rights of a person in a common life as a spouse. And I'd like to understand that this is just a mistake, an oversight, not a deliberate type of action: if you want to work with your partner, first go to the wedding cobra, get married, ring on your finger. Or: If you show control that you have a ring, you can work, you don't have a ring You can't work, you can't help. And that is the fundamental thing about the first sphere of amendments. The second concerns exactly what the senator mentioned. That is, the possibility of hiring students or students, but not only, because in this case it is kind of a two good thing to say. One good thing is to give opportunities to help these micro-entrepreneurs. I stress: it's about micro-entrepreneurs, it's not about big companies, it's about trading networks, etc. We're talking about a small Polish family business. One entrepreneur is unable to operate the store all day by himself without help. So it's all about helping him. And this is help for Polish, small or small commercial companies. But also for those people who could have done it so far, and now they can't, to make extra money, for example. To pay for college, tuition, rent a station when they're in college. They're students, students. Here we also introduce the age limit, up to 26 years old, so that there is no abuse, so that a student who is 40 or 50 years old cannot be employed. They are also those who are generally unpopular. I don't want to say poor people who also made money, and now they can't make money in trade, so pensioners, pensioners and unemployed people. The next amendment concerns two issues, including one that was raised here and the other, which somehow escaped the debate, but was discussed in committees. The aim is to reduce this revenue ceiling, which entitles trade on Sundays from 50 to 40%. Why 40% , not postulated 20% ? Well, I'm hoping that at least it'll pass, and I'm guessing 20%. It would have been kicked out again. This relates only to the share of retail sales. If the company has any other revenue, e.g. At the same time he rents part of some property, rents something, etc., or runs some other business that adds up to the total amount of revenue, that's out of the question, because then nobody would have reached that revenue ceiling at all. The second most important issue, I will be honest with you. It is the elimination of this sacramental, unimaginable idea to put a sack of stones on entrepreneurs again to impose new control, reporting and reporting obligations on them. Here, in this law, it is proposed that an entrepreneur who wants to sell on Sundays and has such rights, opportunities, because he exceeds these required limits, conducts reporting, establishes records, calculates monthly how many products he sells, which are subject to a limit, and how many those who are not subject to... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time...]] I'm almost done. This is the last amendment. ...Etc., etc. I ignore this burden of further records and reports that would have to be done, but I will also mention the absurdities that will be possible in practice. Namely, if this is to be calculated monthly, not e.g. A year, so maybe in one month someone will reach this 40%. And he'll be able to sell, and in the second month he'll be 39%, and he won't be able to sell. After all, no one will know whether this store will be open next month or not. Well, we can't implement that kind of legislation. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, it's been 11 minutes, up to 12 minutes.]] I'm coming. The last two sentences, Mrs. Marshal. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka:... You said the last one, too.]] So we will want to regulate these issues, but of course we will ensure that proper national inspections can control whether these limits are reached or not. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u211	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal, I am here this time as a consumer, not a senator. Well, there are growing trade restrictions on Sundays, and I want to go to a store nearby and buy what I need. I don't always have time on my day. If I hear that the economy is developing in this context, other areas of life are developing, then I think that's the justification for closing the stores that day... Within 7 days it's about 14% Time. To remove this possibility... Well, if someone actually thinks and says it strengthens the economy, it's probably those people who listen and like me bounce off closed doors, they think they're idiots. Because it's not just about limited time. It is also about the limited circulation of money, the limited circulation of goods. That's what the extra value is made of, and that's what makes a national income. There is also an increase in prices. Because if we have the opportunity to buy on Sundays and holidays at Orlen fuel stations and in a few other places, but especially at fuel stations, it is understandable that prices will increase there. That's the economic game, that's the trade rules. If availability is limited, prices go up. And you're saying this is a positive thing? First of all, I want to say that this limitation affects me personally. There's a reason for the employees to get better. All right. But why should consumers have worse? Workers need to be paid extra for their work on Sundays and introduced a voluntary principle. And your way is a way of increasing limitations. And I ask myself, what is it? Here, the Senator, the rapporteur, pointed out slightly what was going on. He said that this also applies to the model of life and cultural affairs. Yeah, I agree, that's the point. The point is to celebrate on Sundays and go to church. To go to church That's what I'm talking about. [[Voice from the hall: Who said that?]] And of course... It's counterproductive. All shops have already been closed, galleries have been closed, which were said to be such modern churches, and there is still a decrease in the number of people going to church, participating in masses, etc. It's just a road to nowhere. What are the exemptions from the trade ban on Sunday? It's not like that, ladies and gentlemen, that such a law, another law can regulate social life. You can see the problems. The possibility of operating post offices has been left and it is now normal that post offices are in most grocery stores. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to ask for peace in the room, because it is very disturbing.]] I don't mind. I'm talking out loud. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stank: But it bothers me.]] Thank you, Mrs. Marshal, but the fact that someone won't listen doesn't really bother me. I want to say what I have to say. Where can I trade? I'll show you what happens. I don't know... Of course, I think... I'm talking about what's gonna happen, because I know that my former union buddies are about to come along with the next amendment, and they're gonna collect 100,000 signatures without a problem, because there are 130,000 members. Trade in online shops and online platforms will be available. This is where we close, so that's where the trade goes. And, of course, it's gonna be more expensive in these online stores. Well, I don't think I have to buy any goods at the mortuary. Because there is no rule that trade is possible in funeral establishments, but in a situation where the major activity will be the activity of a funeral establishment. So there are different possibilities. And here such regulations will not block what is needed. And people need shopping on Sundays, and sometimes they need shopping on Sundays. You believe that all areas of life, including those, should be regulated. Well, let's see what the next consequences are. If this concerns the model of life and cultural matters, then the model of life of Pole is Sunday in churches. What, will there be coercion in a moment, the next bill? I may be going too far, but I express my disagreement with this bill, a deep disagreement. And I reject what you have introduced under the pretext of helping those who work in shops. It's not helping. Because those who work there periodically had to get fired. And if there are further restrictions of this kind, it will be more expensive, it will have to be in those shops which will be affected by these restrictions and which have so far managed to reduce their activity and therefore reduce their employment. That's where you're going. Well, congratulations very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The discussion is closed... [[Voice from the room: There's one more...]] Oh, and Senator Rafał the locksmith. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u214	Dear Marshal! High Senate! I apologize in advance that my arguments may be more colorful than substantive, but they will be in the mood for previous speakers on this speaker. Let's not send shoppers to work if we don't come to the Senate on Sunday. Here, let's look at this with an equal measure. And as for this division, 67% The countries that allow Sunday trade, I think, do not decompose with the population parities. Because they do not allow Norway, Germany and Spain, they significantly restrict France and the United Kingdom. And Sunday trade is easily available in Turkey Erdoğana and Russia Putina. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u215	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I, as I mentioned earlier, am also a complete opponent of the trade ban on Sunday, because I think people should decide whether to shop, and people should decide whether to go to work. Today's argument is that it's in the interest of shop workers that this bill is being introduced, it doesn't convince me at all. In my opinion, it's ideology and nothing more. Someone got the idea that in the care of the family... that there would be thousands of people staying in their homes, not considering how many people had lost or lost their jobs. And I have information that within three years of the Sunday ban, 6.5 thousand stores have been lost. Six and a half thousand, including a dozen small ones who were supposed to be helped by the ban. He didn't help. These companies have disappeared from the market. In 2020 alone, 1,670 stores fell. According to Nielsen, the number of trading facilities today is around 99.4 thousand, while when the ban was introduced in 2018, there were 106 thousand of them. Once again, a dozen of these fallen companies, these little shops are family businesses. And I don't believe it, and it doesn't convince me again. That's the concern of the people who work in these shops, because on Sundays also bus drivers work, and people in different places, for example on Orlena, selling alcohol. If you really think about it in such a way that it is your concern that society should be protected in some way, then prohibit the alcohol trade at Orlen stations, at petrol stations, and make such a request. I'll back him up then, I promise. And then you will actually show that this is a concern for people, among others. So they don't fool around with alcohol on Sundays. And that's what I think I'm saying again, just an ideological matter. I'm not hiding that I was going to make an amendment. At the request of the person who wrote to me yesterday. I'll read you this letter. I'm writing to you because the Trade Act on Sundays is gonna make me have to fire 5, 6 people. We've been running a bakery for over 20 years. In times of epidemic, we didn't take shields, we paid taxes on time. Now I'm able to pay a bigger health premium, but not at the expense of a closed store on Sundays. The problem is, we got ricocheted. Us, not the post office. 50% The bread at the store... That kind of sale at the bakery store is unreal. Please delete points 28 and 30 or 50% limit I know my vote doesn't count, but... My wife and I have been working for 20 years, and we're in danger of shutting down our company right now. Such voices are, I think, a whole lot in Poland. As I mentioned earlier, if you want to maintain this project, vote in favour of lowering this limit to at least 40%. This is about defending small family businesses, small entrepreneurs who, through this bill, can lose their businesses and fire people. These 5, 6 people will lose their jobs, too. Although I am against the trade ban on Sundays, if these amendments are introduced and you vote for them, I will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u217	Thank you very much, Senator. And thus the list of speakers was exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Gromek, Benjamin Godyla, Janusz Pęcherz, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Władysław Komarnicki made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. Legislative proposals were submitted by Senator Adam Szejnfeld... Did Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz make this amendment? No. ... Senator Adam Szejnfeld and Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski together with Senator Wojciech Nebula and Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 496 and the report of the Commission In print No 496 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Halina Poora, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees at their meeting dealt with the Act on the amendment of the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws contained in print No 496. Everyone has accepted this project with understanding and supports it in order to introduce it. Importantly, the use of services that are introduced in this Act will be free of charge. There were proposals for minor changes by the legislator, but they did not concern substantive changes, but merely provisions in the provisions of the Act, and after the arrangements with the government party, the legislator and we, the members of the committee, gave up to make these changes. Both committees unanimously ask the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u219	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz. Are you... The Government representative wishes to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the Government. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u220	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the joint committees very warmly for their substantive cooperation and for the unanimous adoption of the law without amendments. Similarly, without opposition, this project went through the Sejm, for which we also thank the parliamentarians. I would like to take this opportunity to re-examine the content of the law, because the solutions contained there are very pro-Citizenish. The aim of the Act is to introduce legal bases for the provision of a package of electronic services in the area of civil matters, the common denominator of which is the transactional automation of processes and services using state registers and electronic seals. The most important benefits of the solutions are: facilitating the administration of public affairs, speeding up and facilitating the implementation of cases by the authorities, reducing the cost of financing certain tasks commissioned from the area of civil affairs. The legal solution is, among other things, a solution. a transactional check-in and check-out service carried out in the system without the involvement of an official. At present, the owners of the property must include an electronic version or a scan of a copy from the perpetual book or an extract from Sections I and II of the perpetual book, by registering online. Thanks to the new rules, the e-service will be integrated into the system of perpetual books. Once these changes have been implemented, people who own the property and want to check in online will no longer have to prove that they own the property, the verification will take place automatically without the involvement of the requested officer. This will make the process even faster and more comfortable. A service will be introduced for the collection of a certificate from the civil status register on data processed in the civil status register, accompanied by a qualified electronic stamp of the Minister responsible for Information Technology. Such a document is useful when dealing with many things, e.g. tax, insurance, social or whatever is needed to obtain credit. Such a certificate may be required abroad, inter alia. the employer or social institution. Thanks to the new regulations, it will be easier and quicker to download such a certificate. There will also be a service available to download a certificate from the PESEL register containing a complete or partial copy of the data relating to the person and his/her children using a transactional electronic service. After the entry into force of the new regulations, it will be possible to obtain such a certificate immediately. Currently, it is only possible to check your data in the PESEL register, and this allows you to check your data in the PESEL register. A service will also be introduced to allow for the collection of information about recipients from the Register of Personal Evidence and the PESEL register. At present, obtaining such information is not automated and, despite its request, it requires the participation of an official. The new service will allow you to check events that have occurred within 5 years of their occurrence. What's important, we're the only ones who will be able to find out who's receiving our data or data about the child under our parental authority. That's not gonna happen to anyone on the outside. After the entry into force of the new rules, not only will it be easier to obtain information about the recipients of data, but it will take much longer than today to wait for them, we will get them right away. Another service is the possibility of sealing the Minister's copies of the birth certificates issued ex officio as a result of the electronic notification of the birth of the child. The introduction of such a technical solution will enable the heads of civil status offices to speed up and simplify their work without affecting the credibility of the document itself. The next issue is to ensure that data from the Register of Personal Evidence and the PESEL register can be requested in restricted data transmission mode using a dedicated service and to provide electronic documents confirming compliance with statutory conditions for granting access. Come on. Notification of departure from the country with the intention of permanent residence or return. In the case of a declaration of departure or return of a minor, one of the parents may do so if the PESEL register contains information about the parent's PESEL number of the check-out parent. In view of the very positive assumptions laid down by the law and the earlier support of the committee and the Sejm, I ask the senators to adopt the law. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u221	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing you that... Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The solutions contained in this Act are undoubtedly correct and necessary. The introduction into the legal market of electronic services enabling citizens to directly collect data from public registers is highly expected both by society and by public administrations. It should be expected that these services will reduce the costs of functioning of public administration in Poland. However, attention should be paid to the important fact that all services put in place generally concern citizens. This means that the legislator does not see the purpose of implementing a completely new approach to digitalisation and public services. It should be clarified that the need to take certificates and copies of the civil status certificate is not an objective in itself. This is an instrumental objective that serves to achieve other objectives. Although this e-services will enable the citizen to download documents from the public register more quickly and cheaperly, he will still be forced to mediate the transfer of data or documents from institution A to institution B. A modern approach is to eliminate, where possible, the need for citizens to participate in data exchange processes. A model to be pursued is a situation when a citizen initiates some administrative activity, e.g. submit an application and all or most of the necessary data for the performance of the service will be obtained by the public entity itself. This model, although in the case of copies of the civil status act it has been in operation for more than a year, is not used. It should be stated that only such a model will represent significant progress in the development of e-government in Poland. I propose amendments which will aim to implement copies of the civil status records of my previous applications. Currently there is a network service that allows for direct collection of a copy of the civil status act from the civil status register. This service may be used by the persons concerned and by authorised public bodies, ZUS, KRUS, courts, prosecutors and public administrations. Although this service has been in operation since April 2020, no public body has made use of its functionality to date. It is used only by citizens. This is due to the fact that the solution under consideration is optional, which means that public entities covered by it can only use it if they so wish. To make the provision of the article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 3th Law on the Law on Civil Status was actually implemented, and I propose a change of the provisions of the Act. I do not hide that these records were also consulted with the Ministry of Digitalization. I'll read the amendments I've made. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 in point 2 after and the following point shall be added: 3 is replaced by the following: Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Zakład Ubezpieczeń Społecznych, Kasa Rolniczego Ubezpieczeń Społecznej Społecznej, kasa Rolnicze Ubezpieczeń Społecznej, U.S.A. and notaryz, to their proceedings, shall take a summary copy of the civil status act from the civil status register through network services. For lithium. b the following point is added: The following second sentence is added: 3. apply for a copy of the civil status act only in electronic form. The proposed changes to the provision under consideration will result in the collection of a copy of the civil status act by selected entities in principle only by means of a network service from the civil status register. Only if it is not possible to issue a copy of the civil status act in the manner set out above will Article apply. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 Law on civil status. It will then be possible to receive a copy on the basis of an application submitted to the selected USC Manager. It is important to clarify that such an application should be made in the form of an electronic document. It is therefore reasonable to amend Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Five civil status laws, which I did. Taking these amendments into account will result in a complete bill which will actually achieve the objective. These are the amendments to the article. 45 laws. I also have an amendment agreed with the Ministry of Digitalisation, and it also concerns the implementation of these services. I'll read it. 4. the following Article shall be inserted: 4a as follows: 4a. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Minister responsible for IT may purchase computer equipment for municipalities for the purpose of carrying out their tasks under the laws amended by Article. 1, in Article 1, the following paragraph is added: 3 and Article 3 4. Paragraph 1 is The Minister responsible for IT may entrust the performance of the task referred to in paragraph. 1, an entity subordinate to or supervised by him. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3. The task referred to in paragraph 1. 1 entrusted to the implementation of the body referred to in paragraph. 2 may be financed in the form of a special grant from the budget of the State from the part of which the Minister responsible for IT is the responsibility. And then on: in the article. The following point 4 is added: 4a, which shall enter into force on the day following the day of the announcement. These are the amendments I make. As I said, this last amendment on the annexation of civil status offices is agreed with the Ministry of Digitization. Please accept these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u223	Thank you very much, Senator. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that Senators Aleksander Szwed, Viktor Durlak, Maciej Łuczak, Mariusz Gromko, Janusz Pęcherz, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska made speeches in the minutes. I would also like to inform you that Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz made a legislative proposal. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No? Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u224	We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 497, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 497 A and 497 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Michael Sewerynski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The subject of the review by the Committee on Human Rights, Laws and Petitions was the amendment of the Act on Foreigners of 12 October 1990, the Law on the Protection of the State Border, and the Act of 2003 on the granting of protection to foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Poland taking into account the current migration situation occurring at the border of the Republic of Poland. The aim is to effectively counter the abuse of international protection institutions by foreigners who, in order to achieve objectives other than protection by persecution or serious harm by submitting an application for international protection, have the right to applicants, including the right to cross the border and stay in the territory of the State, to circumvent the conditions for crossing the external border of the European Union set out in the Schengen Borders Code. The present act is also intended to improve the conduct by the Border Guard authorities of proceedings concerning the illegal crossing of the external border of the European Union by foreigners not seeking international protection, aiming to quickly leave the territory of the Republic of Poland. The amendment introduces a new regulation into the Foreigners Act, according to which, in the case of crossing the external border, within the meaning of the Schengen Code, contrary to the rules of law and the immediate detention of the foreign commander of the Border Guard Office in the framework of the administrative proceedings carried out, he draws up a protocol for crossing the border and issues a decision to leave the territory of the Republic of Poland. The order shall specify the order for the foreigner to leave the territory of the Republic of Poland and shall prohibit the re-entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland and other countries of the Schengen area. It shall also specify the duration of that prohibition as not less than 6 months and not more than 3 years. In addition, the Act provides that the foreigner in respect of whom the provision concerning the prohibition of re-entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland and other Schengen States is to be included in the list of persons whose stay in the territory of the Republic of Poland is undesirable and to be transferred to the Schengen Information System. The Act on the granting of protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland introduced a change which allows the Head of the Office to leave without recognition an application for international protection where the application is submitted by the foreigner who is detained immediately after crossing the external border contrary to the rules of law. The Head of Office may not leave without recognition an application made by a foreigner who has arrived directly from the territory in which his life or freedom threatens the danger, persecution or the risk of serious harm, and has provided reliable reasons for illegal entry into the territory of the Republic and has submitted an application for international protection immediately after crossing the border. The amendment also amends the Law on the Protection of the State Border, introducing criminal liability for the action of taking, destroying, damaging, removing, moving or making useless of infrastructure elements located in the border area and intended for the protection of the state border, in particular fences, fences, dams and horns. The legislator provided that the provisions of the Foreigners Act in the existing version apply to proceedings concerning the foreigner's obligation to return initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the amendment. With regard to the content of the Commission's Law, the Legislative Office raised reservations that some of the provisions of the Law were incompatible with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and with the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees in 1951. In view of the reservations I mentioned, two proposals were made in the course of the discussion: the proposal to reject the law as far as possible, i.e. the proposal to reject it, and the proposal to adopt the amendment act. It is about 2 amendments, which are purely technical and legislative in nature, to add the word 'or 'where it is missing ', we add them because of the correct syntax 'and the separation of criminal rules in a separate chapter. Most of the votes were adopted with a proposal to support the bill with two amendments attached. A motion to reject the law has not been accepted, but it will be presented with the support of minorities. That's it, Mr. Marshal. Thank you for your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. And now I'm gonna ask for minority proposals. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions, Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the motion of the minority committee. This is a motion to reject this bill. I will not describe the provisions of this law because they have been described by the Senator-Rapporteur of the committee. I would just like to point out why, for what reasons, a minority of committees have applied to reject the law. Maybe we could start by justifying this bill. The explanatory memorandum of the Act states that the proposed legislation is intended to allow for better conduct of proceedings on illegal border crossings and to promote security and public order protection. There was a massive influx into Europe of migrants, many of whom were radicalized representatives of many cultures, religions, and even extremists, and I quote the justification. The explanatory memorandum also mentions the abuse of refugee procedures by economic migrants. However, it does not contain any specific information from which it can be concluded that foreigners applying for protection actually pose a threat. Of course, I will not refer to the famous press conference of the Minister of the Interior, where the origin of the paintings presented at this conference was not the Polish-Belarusian border and they were not from that period, they were registered much earlier. Therefore, the arguments set out in the explanatory memorandum of the law, namely the need to prevent irregular migration, the abuse of refugee procedures, are not really covered. However, the Act should be assessed for its compliance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, European Union law, Council of Europe law, international refugee law, the Geneva Convention, and OSCE obligations. Regardless of the fact that the Belarusian authorities, of course intentionally, make it easier for foreigners to arrive at the external border of the European Union, Poland is obliged to protect its border to comply with international law and European Union law, also because it is the external border of the European Union. According to these provisions, border control and border protection measures against return of foreigners are required to comply with European Union law, including the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, international refugee law, the European Convention on Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the European Union Directive on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection of 2013, the OSCE's obligations, starting with the Helsinki Final Act of 1975, and the Final Document of the Vienna KBWE Conference, 1989, and the principle of non-refoulement. Foreigners have the right to have an application for international protection lodged at the border or on the territory of a Member State of the European Union examined and Member States are required to allow such applicants to remain in their territory pending the examination of the application. The foreigner cannot be expelled from the territory of the Republic of Poland without an individual examination of his situation, and the likelihood of violating his fundamental rights in the event of expulsion, including in particular the prohibition of torture, must result in such expulsion. Leaving the application for international protection without recognition is only possible in specific cases. They do not cross the border against the rules of law. If one of these conditions is the arrival from the so-called. a safe third country, but European Union law requires that the grounds for declaring the country concerned safe be specified in detail. At this point I would like to remind you that the European Court of Human Rights has recognised that Belarus does not have an effective asylum system, and reports that Belarusian services force foreigners to cross the border with Poland and prevent them from returning, show that Belarus cannot be regarded as a safe country. This is from the justification of the M.K. case. against Poland. Changes to the Foreigners Act, which violates these provisions, are primarily discussed earlier the introduction of a new type of administrative decision issued to the foreigner. - Orders to cross the border against the rules of law. This is a different kind of decision than the decision to make a commitment to return. Order issued in the situation of detention of a foreigner immediately after the illegal crossing of the external border of the European Union will indicate the return of the foreigner from the territory of the Republic of Poland, include a ban on re-entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland and other countries of the Schengen area, and consequently the issuing of this prohibition The entry in the national list of foreigners whose stay is undesirable and in the Schengen Information System for the purpose of refusing entry. This order is intended to be absolute, i.e. unconditional, so it can be issued and executed despite the application by the foreigner for international protection and without taking into account other circumstances on the part of the foreigner, which should result in the failure of such an arrangement. In other words, making an application for international protection will not affect the issue and implementation of that order. It will, of course, be immediately feasible, i.e. the lodging of a complaint will not affect the performance. So the foreigner will simply be returned to the external border. There is no regulation concerning the basis for compulsory enforcement of the order, the indication of the country to which the foreigner is to be transferred, the issuing of travel documents to the foreigner, as is the case with the decision to leave the country where the country from which he came refuses to accept it. This is incompatible with the European Union's asylum law because, as provided for in Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, a foreigner who has applied for international protection is an applicant. This is the first step in the international protection procedure. And the provisions of the Directive provide that applicants are permitted to remain in a Member State only for the purposes of the procedure until the determining authority has taken a decision. The European Court of Human Rights confirmed this in its case law: it is necessary to ensure that the return of the country of origin is protected until the application is properly processed. The provisions of the Act therefore infringe the provisions of the Directive and the right to asylum contained in Article. 18 The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and if expulsion were to take place in a territory where life or freedom would endanger us, we would also be in breach of the principle of non-refoulement contained in Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees. In accordance with the proposed rules, there will be no individualised examination of the consequences of enforcement, i.e. the threat of torture and persecution, which could lead to violations of international law and the principles arising from the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. A foreigner must not be expelled if it involves a real risk of violating the prohibition of torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment and punishment. This principle is absolute and there are no exceptions to it in international law. Those provisions are also to apply where the foreigner is detained immediately after crossing the external border contrary to the provisions of the law, which shows that the removal and enforcement of the order falls within the scope of the control of the external border of the European Union governed by the provisions of the Schengen Borders Code. It's an art. Article 2 (10) to (12) and Article 2 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation In turn, in the article. The Schengen Borders Code 3 and 4 explicitly states that Member States fully comply with, inter alia, the provisions of the Schengen Borders Code.: Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, international law, including the Geneva Convention, obligations relating to access to international protection, and in particular the principles non-refoulement and fundamental rights. The Schengen Borders Code also indicates that decisions are taken individually and Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of that Code provides that a person who has crossed the border contrary to the rules of law shall be detained and subjected to a procedure complying with the requirements of Directive 2008/115/EC governing the standards and procedures applied by Member States with regard to the return of irregular migrants. This law also infringes the right to an effective remedy guaranteed by Article. 13 Directive 2008/115/EC and the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union which provides that, in the event of a threat to a foreigner's death, torture or persecution, the lodging of an appeal should suspend the implementation of the decision. The directive gives legal advice, legal representation and assistance to the translator. Well, and the complaint to the chief doesn't meet the requirements of proper instant control, because it's an instant control of the body of the same formation. As regards the entry of data into the Schengen Information System, according to the Regulation the data of the foreigner in the list of foreigners whose stay in the territory of the Republic of Poland is undesirable, and in the Schengen Information System for the purpose of refusing entry This is a Regulation of Parliament and of the Council concerning the Schengen Information System II... entry into such a system for refusal of entry or stay shall be entered on the basis of an entry into the national system but resulting from a decision taken on the basis of an individual assessment by the competent administrative authorities or courts in accordance with the procedural rules laid down in national law. So that's not enough. And of course, this law also contains provisions on changes to the law on granting protection to foreigners. The project introduced the possibility of leaving without recognition an application for international protection when it was lodged by a foreigner detained immediately after crossing the external border of the European Union contrary to the rules of law, unless the foreigner came from the territory in which he was in danger, presented the reasons for non-compliance with the provisions of the border crossing and submitted the application immediately after it was crossed. The proposed solution refers to 2 separate institutions in Directive 2013/32/EU, i.e. the identification of the application in an accelerated manner and the recognition of the application as inadmissible. As far as the accelerated procedure is concerned, under the directive, crossing the border contrary to the rules and not submitting an application without delay only gives the possibility to carry out an accelerated procedure, i.e. a substantive examination of the application and not to leave it unrecognized. The decision on the application must be made after individual, objective and impartial consideration and after a precise and up-to-date analysis of the situation in the country of origin. In addition, Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Directive 2013/32/EU provides that an application for protection may not be rejected or left undiagnosed solely because of failure to comply with it as soon as possible. In view of the fact that such a short law, because it is a very short law, contains so many inconsistencies with all international agreements signed by Poland, also with those provisions which regulate the protection of the external border of the European Union, and above all with the Geneva Convention and with the Polish Constitution, with provisions on the possibility of asylum, a minority of committees requests that this law be rejected in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute of questioning to the senator... [[Voice from the Chamber: One more rapporteur...]] Who else? Oh, there's another one. I'm sorry. [[Gromek is still waiting.]] Thank you very much, Senator, for waiting. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Gromek, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! Dear fellow Senators! Minister! Dear Officials! Actually, I had a lot to say, but the professor, the marshal and your marshal counsel said what I wanted to say. Minister, this is how I look at you and the state and myself and us. Because it is as if we want to put a wall between us, between rulers and senators or Polish society. Absolutely not. I am definitely in favour of cleaning up what is happening on the border between Poland and Belarus. I am against the Lukashenka regime, against the hybrid war, which has been operational for practically a year. But this is not an easy topic for Poland. We've got our problems. There's a fourth wave of pandemics coming up, knocking on the head because the head's been nicked so it doesn't come. We have problems with EU money. Today, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled what it had decided. It is not good for Poland, and I do not even know how to say that we are to comply with European Union directives, since today the sentence was as it was. But it's about the people who come there. And you mustn't take them all together, condemn them all, and say they're terrorists, sick people, dangerous. There are also children, and with these children there are parents. I've got this file right here, and this cover shows these kids. I have two children myself, adults now, two grandchildren, and I can't imagine my children or my grandchildren getting hurt or your children and grandchildren. And that's what happens, and it's not exactly for our reasons. The Brussels resolution, which had not been adopted so long ago on the situation at the Polish-Belarusian border, strongly condemns Lukashenka and her actions in the hybrid war. But less is said about what Poland should do in accordance with the Geneva Convention, the European Union directives and the records of other international institutions. Today at the beginning of our meeting, here we listened to the speech of the High Representative of the European Union, who said a very important thing... [[Mr. Senator, I would ask you to focus on the report if you could...]] And this is a report. [[This is a report. And that was said at the committee meeting. Yes?]] This is a report. I won't extend my limit, believe me, Mr. Marshal. [[No, it's not that. What I'm saying is that you...]] How many more minutes do I have? [[There's no limit. It's about you telling me what happened at the committee meeting.]] Yeah, but it's a report, and I'm a report. That's what I'm talking about. What I wanted to say in my report, what I wanted to discuss, Mr Marshal, was already said by your marshal and your professor, and I am now referring to this whole situation. He said one very important thing, namely that the problem of the eastern border is not only the problem of Poland, but also of Europe, the European Union. This is the Schengen border. That is why he proposed in some words to benefit from the help of the various institutions operating in the European Union, as well as the human rights institutions, and to work together to develop such a change in the novelty of our law, which will treat in a humanitarian way... not everyone who is there, not everyone who is there, because it turns out to be Today I read more and more people from other countries are being downloaded to Belarus, and this problem will continue to affect Poland. Which is why I believe, in view of what Senator Staneck said about these records, about not complying with the law... Similarly, yesterday at the committee meeting, the Legislative Bureau spoke of bad records. I believe that this is absolutely to be changed and applied. This is not an easy subject, there are not easy records that can be applied to all of this, taking into account how institutions that deal with human rights, especially children's rights, are looking at it. Therefore, I keep my fingers crossed to improve this novel law so that it gives Poland the right to protect our borders and protect the security of Poles and Poles. That's all I wanted to say. I wish you all the best. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u230	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for you, Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, as rapporteur for the minority. Your marshal requests that the bill be rejected in its entirety. Will the rejection of this law in its entirety make the degree of protection of our borders worse? Is there a threat here? Isn't your marshal afraid of that? That's the first question. Second question. Are the provisions of the international agreements that you quoted from the marshal in large numbers... If this law is adopted in turn, will Poland be obliged to denounce all these international conventions and agreements and other legal acts which were accepted by Poland? Will it be necessary to review these rules and if there is a collision, will we have to terminate these agreements? If so, how will we have to deal with international relations when there is a conflicting situation, we will declare this agreement, and someone will sue us on the basis of international regulations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u232	Thank you. Mind if I take a moment, Mr. Marshal? [[You're welcome.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Of course, in our view, the failure to adopt this law would not result in a deterioration in border protection, because this is about completely different issues. And that's why I didn't do it, because it would be more of a matter of the general international situation. But in any situation where border protection is concerned, it must be protected, of course, but the law must be respected. And there's this belief that maybe it wouldn't have happened. Firstly, if we had focused from the very beginning, like Lithuania and Latvia, on cooperation with Frontex, the European Border Guard Agency, which is also based in Warsaw. We didn't do it. At the committee meeting, of course. I'm the draftsman of the committee. The Minister said we were working together. This is contrary to what the Commission has received from Frontex. The Polish government did not address Frontex. Besides, I also spoke to a representative of Frontex, and I also received this information. It was only two or three days ago that Frontex's representatives were at the border. Secondly, if we were to try to solve these problems in cooperation with EU bodies or at all with the European Union. Because, as it seems, we are politically unable today to oppose ourselves, as Poland alone, Belarus and Lukashenka, which is obviously inspired by Russia. And none of us have any doubt that this is the case, but it is on the international stage that we can decide through international institutions, and mostly through the European Union. For us, therefore, the only solution was to respect the law from the very beginning, to respect international law, to respect humanitarian law. Here I refer to the senator's second question: I can't imagine Poland saying, for example. The Geneva Convention. Because the senator asked... Minister, don't laugh. Mr. Senator asked us a specific question as to whether we need to speak as a consequence... Well, I can't imagine a situation like this because of all the rules. From the Geneva Convention This is the humanitarian work of Europe and the world, the work we have achieved after World War II. And indeed the situation that we have so many international regulations This is not only European Union legislation, but it is also Council of Europe's legislation. It causes us to be in this family of democratic countries, where human rights, human dignity, human natural dignity are the highest protection. And man's life, no matter who he is, what color his skin is and what religion he is. That is why, of course, we must comply with these provisions. And I hope there's no turbulence in this shackle. What are we in danger of? Well, we are certainly at risk of being held accountable to the European Court of Human Rights. Besides, in the case with Usnarza the case was signalled to Poland, and therefore this case is already ongoing. I also remind you that last year they were issued in similar situations Of course, this was not the case on such a scale. By our failure to comply with international law 2 judgments against Poland, just by the European Court of Human Rights. And I expect that the Polish citizen for such action will be... Because it is from the money of Polish citizens that compensation will be paid. And that's definitely what we're in for. It's horrible, but of course it's also threatening that these people are going to die. So that's also moral responsibility.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u233	Thank you very much. Senator Ujazdowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u234	Mr Marshal, I do not prejudice on the validity of this initiative of the law, it is a matter of debate and detailed evaluation. I'd like to ask your marshal, your professor, if this kind of exclusion... Because the essence of this law is, in fact, the exclusion from asylum law and refugee rules of those who illegally cross the border, this is a special discretionary procedure for expulsion beyond national borders. Is such a wide exemption present in EU legislation The ones that are in our situation, that is, they are border countries Or we're gonna take it all in. New solutions?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u235	You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u236	Mr. Senator, I do not deal with professional, scientific asylum law, and there was too short a gap between the committee meeting and this sitting so that it could be handled calmly. Let me just say briefly that for me the justification for this bill, except perhaps some details or some editorial issues that could have been improved... For me, the basic reason is: we have changed the rules to protect ourselves especially from people who illegally cross the Polish border. There are exceptions when you can turn a blind eye to this and follow a normal procedure, as if they had legally entered the country. It is clear to me that we cannot be required to fully, 100 percent legal proceedings against such a foreigner who has illegally entered us. He was the first to commit lawlessness, so he cannot count on us to apply the same rules to him as to his colleague, who came where we need to, where we have a border crossing, and who has made specific statements, which means he has acted in a lawful manner. And that explains to me why such a bill is needed. I'm afraid, but that's my personal reflection. If you will not have to tighten this law even further in a short time. I'm not in favour of this kind of sharpening, but there's just a lack of equality here. We are to apply the law fully, and those who violently cross our borders and come to our country need not be held responsible, for example. such as the course of asylum proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u237	Thank you very much, Senator. You ask Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you, Marshal of Moravian-Stanecka. You are so eager to say that Poland will have to explain itself to the European Court of Human Rights, as if you have already served sentences. You were in Usnarz, so I have a question for you. Are these illegal immigrants on the Polish side or on the Belarusian side? I'm asking because you were an eyewitness. So what's it like? On the Polish side or on the Belarusian side? If, after Belarus, why should Poland translate in the European forum for the Lukashenka regime, for the criminal regime that brings thousands of immigrants into its country, trying to destabilise the countries of the European Union as well as the North Atlantic Alliance? I'm the one asking... You were an eyewitness. Were they on the Polish side or on the Belarusian side?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u239	Dear Marshal, Mr. Senator! Thank you very much for this question, because, first of all, in Usnarz 500 m from the place where the border line is, the services set up, uniformed and unmarked, in the ski masks, and they did not allow anyone to the field, which was still on the Polish side, about 400 m... But from the maps of Geoportal, which are available, and from various information, even concerning this fire that was burned there, it appears that through the Border Guard they were moved... [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's from the maps, and I've seen these maps. I wasn't allowed... 500 m from the border. Everyone was stopped, so I didn't get any information about it, either. They're here, and that's the information I wanted to get. And on the basis of the Act on Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, I had the right to obtain such information. Also to the Ministry in which the Minister works, at the beginning of September or at the end of August, I sent appropriate inquiries. I still haven't gotten an answer. In view of the state of emergency which was introduced, social control has been excluded. Because there's no reporters there, you don't know anything. You don't know who's where. Even in the course of war, journalists are allowed in various parts of the world. There's no social control here. That's my answer. And one more thing. I'm very surprised that in a situation where it's really hard at the border... You're talking about NATO. I didn't hear you call a meeting. Nor have I heard you address the UN because the situation is very difficult. Of course, the opposition... That's what's important today. If our border... We do not question what is happening abroad in Belarus, but since it is as it is, all political forces should be involved in solving this problem. Meanwhile, the state is acting like Zosia Samosia again. After all, we all want to be together. I stress: together take responsibility and create such rules, rules to guard the eastern border. However, this is not an option because the laws are adopted in such a way and not in any other way. The opposition in the Sejm did not have the opportunity to make any adjustments. There was no discussion that should take place in such a situation. The truth is, this is the last moment for us to have this discussion here in the Senate. This should be a substantive discussion and we should consider together what we should do to protect the border on the one hand and, on the other hand, not violate a number of provisions of international law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u240	Senator Skurkiewicz would like to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. One corrigendum. I'd ask you a marshal to maybe take a look at her Senator's box or just intervene in the Senate Chancellery because I answered your senator's speech a long time ago. That's one thing. Go down to the basement and look in the Senator's box. That's one thing. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: I have my mail checked. I got a lot of answers...]] Don't interrupt me. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: I'll check it out, Mr. Senator.]] That's the first thing. Second thing. Mrs. Marshal, with all due respect, you are a worthy senator of the Republic of Poland. Ba, you're even Vice-Marshal of the Senate, and some think you're Vice-Marshal of the Senate. I would ask you not to compromise these functions. If you think that the borders of the state are set on the basis of indications, I don't know, Geoportal, geo-radar or other geo things... that's disqualifying when it comes to assessing a person who is acting as a third-party deputy in a country.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u242	Mr. Senator, you haven't asked a question about the state border. You asked where the refugees were. I told you that I personally couldn't tell. I told you that in the first words, and then I explained why. Then I told you what the satellite images were from Geoportal. Moreover, people who were at the border claimed that these people were still in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Don't mix political issues... At this point, I am the rapporteur of the committee and, as rapporteur of the committee, I justify the motion to reject the law. [[Mr. Marshal, I reserve these questions because I would like to ask you the Minister. Perhaps the Minister will be more competent.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u243	Of course. There'll be an opportunity for that in a minute. No further questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I invite Minister Maciej Wąsik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened carefully to this discussion and I think I should speak on behalf of the government. I owe you a few explanations. Of course, I will answer Mr. Skurkiewicz, Senator Skurkiewicz's question. These people who were on the Belarusian side... The border line is very precisely marked with border posts, on both sides of the posts there are signs On the one hand, Polish, on the other hand Belarusian. This line is actually determined by the centimeter, so there's no doubt about it. Our services repeatedly emphasized that these people were on the Belarusian side, i.e. they were not under Polish jurisdiction. I think I owe the answer to some doubts that have already arisen, for example in the question of Senator Ujazdowski. Mr Senator, the refugee legislation in Europe was, of course, created under different conditions, but these directives said that... well, for example. I'll quote the article. 2 (2) 2 2008 Directive on common standards and procedures for returning illegally staying third-country nationals. These regulations, of course, talk about certain responsibilities of these countries, about the standards of European civilization. They say that some proposals need to be considered, that an application for international protection must be dealt with, but they also say that Member States may decide not to apply this Directive to third-country nationals who, inter alia, do not apply this Directive. shall be subject to an entry ban in accordance with Article. 13 of the Schengen Borders Code or who have been detained or apprehended by the competent authorities in connection with the illegal crossing of the external border of a Member State on land, sea or air. Those provisions may not apply to those crossing the border. Of course, this is restricted by the Geneva Convention, because the Geneva Convention says that it is necessary to give refuge to refugees that they cannot be punished for crossing the border illegally if they cross the first border. So this bill is going to be about the Iraqis, but for example. There won't be a ban... Well, that's not forbidden. The possibility of not considering an application for international protection will not apply to Belarusians who will flee across the green border to Poland, who will flee the country where they are threatened by repression. And I would like to reassure the Senate, the senators. During the last year we gave protection to 10,000 Belarusians who thought they could experience repression in their country, who fled to Poland. They didn't even have to run across the green border because we gave them humanitarian visas. We said, yes, after the fake elections a year ago, after the demonstrations, after the beating of people, after the persecutions, after 12 years of imprisonment, this is a country where the Belarusians are threatened by repression, torture. That is why we have basically opened the border of the country for these refugees from Belarus. But I would also like to say that there is a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg of February 2020, which says that Spain has had the right to refer to Morocco in recent years caught illegally crossing the border of African immigrants. Please note this extremely important distinction: immigrants, not refugees. This bill will not apply to refugees, i.e. those who need help. I would like to assure the Senate that all refugees who turn to Poland for help will get such help. That's not enough. We sent planes to Kabul so that those who are actually threatened with repression could come to us. A thousand Afghans were brought to Poland by airplanes to give them shelter, to ensure their escape from torture. I would like to assure the High House that the Polish State, the Polish Government, will continue its policy of helping those who are threatened with repression. However, we are aware that the situation at the Belarusian border is extraordinary. Until recently, until recently, it can be said that a few months ago, on both sides of the border there were two services cooperating with each other in order to secure this border from crossing. At the moment there is one service that is trying to secure this border, and there is another service that shows which way refugees are going to go to Poland. That's what it looks like. We've got more and more evidence, and there's a huge amount of material, public, classified, that shows what this thing looks like. After all, it is enough to open the Belsat website to see the open materials that reach us, just open up some social media for Iraqi immigrants who report on their flight, laugh, visit pubs in Minsk, and then get into taxis and go to the border where Belarusian services indicate where they are to cross the border to get past the Polish police stations. That's why we need legal instruments, High Senate, to act efficiently. And let me stress one more thing: these actions concern people who... Otherwise, let me put it this way: we may not consider We can, we don't have to, but we can, the head of the Foreign Office may not consider An application for international aid where two conditions are met at the same time. The first is the crossing of the green border in an illegal way, contrary to Polish regulations, and the second one, which must be fulfilled simultaneously: this person must not cross the border from the country in which he is threatened by torture, persecution. So the Belarusians won't include the laws of this law, and the Iraqis or the Afghans, because maybe that's a better example, which in a way... [[Voice from the O.R.: They will.]] Yes, sir. It will be possible to apply, but it will be possible not to consider such a proposal. Repeat: Possibility. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the rules that the old Union has made, of course, based on Christian values, on a certain sensitivity that we are all aware of, are abused in a powerful way, and the rules on international protection are being abused in a powerful way. The extremely common argument in refugee camps or for immigrants, the temporary camps that the Border Guard is running when it comes to providing international assistance, is the argument: do I have a brother in Germany? This, of course, is a complete confusion of concepts. It is known that such a person is an ordinary economic migrant. If he has a brother in Germany, this brother is legally there, then he can send an invitation, this person must show that he can keep it. In fact, there is a problem that Lukashenka has generated, a problem that we have to deal with. A lot of words came out here, and the password was FRONTEX. I would like to make it clear to the High Senate that Frontex has 1,300 people all over Europe. The Polish Border Guard has 16 thousand officers, the Podlaska branch alone has more than 2 000 people, it is twice as large as the whole of Frontex. Frontex's assistance to Lithuania is 60 officers, including several Polish officials. [[Voice from the room: And helicopter.]] And a Polish helicopter, no, 2 helicopters, of which one Polish helicopter Kania, who helped Lithuanians and helps Lithuanians, because Lithuania is a small country with a long Belarusian border, these services are not as strong as Polish. Of course, we can power the Border Guard at any time and I would like to thank the Minister for this extraordinary help to the Guards. At the moment almost 3,000 Polish Army soldiers support Polish border guards in border protection, almost 600 police officers. Those of our boys who are defending our homeland, because that's the way to say it, before this hybrid war, we need to help. They also need to be given some instruments. This law will certainly strengthen the activities of the Polish Border Guard. It has a huge impact on the security of the Polish border, Mrs Marshal, has a huge impact. Therefore, I ask the High Senate to accept this law, to reject the minority's motion to reject the Sejm Act. I would like to emphasise one last thing, Mrs. Marshal. There was a debate in the Sejm, in a committee chaired by a colleague from the parliamentary club who, moreover, held this debate very honestly and well. All NGOs had an opportunity to comment, had an opportunity to submit proposals. We even accepted amendments that were tabled at one of the committee meetings. I think that some of the Members of the opposition, despite certain decisions, called it a political, gracious eye, looked at these regulations, realizing how important they are to our services, to the Office for Foreigners, to the government, to Poland. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, once again, I ask the High Senate to adopt the provisions of the law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u245	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay on the stand unless you'd rather sit there. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Maciej Wąsik: How are you, marshal...]] I'd rather you stay on the stand. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Of course, Mr. Marshal.]] Your first question is Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have two questions, so I'm gonna run out the limit right now, and I'm gonna ask the second question, and it's gonna be a little bit longer. The State in the explanatory memorandum of the bill states that this is justified on grounds of security, a concern for the safety of all of us. Hence the question: how many foreigners have committed crimes against health, property, customs I'm not, of course, referring to an illegal crossing of the border. Who have been detained in an emergency zone? That's the first question. I ask for precise information today, orally and in writing in this regard. Second question. At the press conference of both ministers, Minister Kaminski and Minister Błaszczak, you spoke, also in the context of justification. then extend the state of emergency, the threat of terrorism. Hence my question: how many people have detained Polish services in connection with the suspicion of terrorism, how many have submitted allegations and filed a request for temporary detention, because this is the procedure in the case of allegations from the article. 165 criminal code, in the event of widespread danger, terrorism or terrorist financing? I'm asking for precise information, because I think you already have it. After all, Minister Kaminski at this conference spoke exactly like this: materials pointing to radicalism and links with criminal groups were found in 50 of the 200 detained people who examined the services. 50 people found evidence of radicalism, showing that they were young people, trained in combat, who participated in various types of armed formations in the Middle East. Mr. Spokesperson or Director, because here he is presented as Minister of Coordinator's spokesperson and as Director of National Security, Stanisław Żaryn said this: one in ten illegally verified immigrants have possible links with terrorist organisations. For this reason, I ask for specific information: how many applications for temporary detention are there already in place for suspected terrorists? Please, too. Because I can see that these are not unofficial data, because at this conference you used the example of Iraq's citizen Husham M. H., who had contacts with people associated with the Islamic State, so you officially provide these data. For precise information: how many such requests have the prosecution already submitted? I ask because we all care about the security of Polish borders. I would like all of us to know what the extent of this threat is in this extremely sensitive area, the threat of terrorism, as you have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u247	Mr. Senator, I would like to tell you that the Polish services have detained over 200 people, yes, over 200 people who have committed crimes. I don't count a delusion of illegal crossing the border. In view of the situation at the eastern border, more than 200 people were arrested, mainly smugglers, mainly those supporting illegal border crossings, people who came here to assist people illegally entering Poland. Some of these people have voluntarily been punished. It was a quick procedure. And some of them are in custody. I would like to tell you that, according to my knowledge, the prosecution has conducted 10 cases concerning the past... and the materials that immigrants have, who have been detained by the Border Guard and are in Polish refugee camps. I don't have accurate information on the number of charges and the categories of charges. One thing I do know is that the appeal... I'm sorry, not the appeal, but the Regional Attorney's Office in Bialystok was supposed to merge these proceedings. All the material that Polish services have acquired, concerning links with terrorism, concerning contacts with terrorist logistics, for example in the UK, concerning the possession of materials that are illegal in Poland, i.e. regarding the zoophie, pedophilia, the possession of pedophilia is illegal, and has been transferred to the prosecutor's office. If the senator wishes, we'll get the exact details. Of course, it is the Minister of Justice who hosts this, not the Minister of the Interior, but we will establish and provide accurate information. I'll tell you half-officially, if you'll excuse me, please don't take this for granted, but I think the process was very close.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u248	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Ujazdowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u249	Minister, I did not question the very idea of changing the law, but asked a very specific question as to whether such a far-reaching exclusion, which in fact allows almost all illegally crossing the border not to include in the order of asylum law Prof. Seweryński confirmed my assessment, is already present in the legislation of some Member States. That's exactly what I meant. On this occasion, I want to ask another question because I want to understand the meaning of this instrument. So what part of those who illegally crossed the border, say, over the last quarter, have applied for international protection? Secondly, what are the proportions between those who have illegally crossed the border and have been identified as illegally crossing the border and those who have effectively reached Germany or other European countries and have not been identified? Because the other one is neutral.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u250	Mr. Senator, let me put it this way, if I understand this question correctly, I think it's about 5%. persons, up to 5% Those who cross the border illegally manage to get past our posts, up to 5%. Of course, we try to minimize this number. Recently, the public heard information from Germany, which recorded between 700 and 1 000 500 citizens, mostly Iraq, who appeared in Germany. I would like to stress that we are working with the German Border Guard at the Nadodrzany Border Guard Department and we are working together because we realise that somewhere this... Please remember that this is not only the Polish-Belarusian border. In July, at the beginning of August, the Lithuanians stopped about 4.5 thousand people who had been imprisoned in camps that were semi-open. Until recently, they had occupied these camps, if I recall correctly, at 70 percent, they now have 60 percent. Some people, using this semi-open formula, simply got on buses and tried to get to Germany through Poland. We've kept some of the people. We have strengthened our forces at the Polish-Lithuanian border and set up stations there, but of course a few forces are at the Polish-Lithuanian border. I would like to say that this type of legislation I cannot now, Mr. Senator, recall the precise legal solutions of the Baltic States, which are also the subject of the attack on the part of Lukashenka. These countries... This is also the case in the Balkans. Hungarians faced a huge migrant problem in 2015. They still have that problem. We have to go ahead and say it. Even though they built a fence on the border with Serbia, they have a year... This year, if I recall correctly, there were tens of thousands of attempts to cross the border. Of course, border installations are extremely helpful there, but they still have this problem and have rules that... The directive itself says that states may exclude certain rules concerning persons who cross the border illegally. Once again, I will remind you of the judgment in Spain, where the European Court of Human Rights has recognised the quote, so that you can hear it. That immediate return of immigrants is in line with legislation and does not undermine fundamental rights. That's part of the sentence. It was about what we wanted to do. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware of the various doubts that arise here, but we are dealing with an extraordinary situation. This is actually a hybrid war, a deliberate act. I call on us to be responsible in this situation. I'd like to highlight one thing. Any person who really needs help and who will be in the territory of the Polish state, sick, weakened, unable to move alone, will get help. We have dozens of such examples. If all of them... Caritas visits every day all refugee centers, helps them, watches how they are there. There may be harsh conditions, but it's warm, there's food, it doesn't rain on the head, people are waiting for decisions. Of the ones we've kept in the depths of the country and we've settled in the centers, just over 40%. have submitted applications for international assistance. But of those 40% Probably half of them submitted them after further consideration, considering that this is a prerequisite not to be readmitted. They thought it would prolong their operation here. Perhaps after a while, the courts will stop deciding that these people will be locked up. Then they'll come out and run away. They're actually gonna get into Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, in the vast majority of those who come to Poland, are aimed at Berlin. We're a transit country, it's obvious. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that our duty to protect the Polish border is also an obligation to protect the Union's border. We have signed a border treaty, we are fulfilling our responsibilities, we are a loyal member of the European Union in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u251	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Skurkiewicz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. A few very short questions. Minister, is it true that those who are trying to cross illegally Polish-Belarusian border, legally reside in Belarus, based on a 30-day tourist visa? It's about a dozen thousand people. Second question. Is it true that they pay for stays, travels, flights to the territory of the Belarusian Republic from 3 to even 12 thousand dollars? Is it true that the Lukashenka regime has signed so-called agreements in recent weeks and in recent months. visa-free travel with a number of countries in the Middle and Far East, including Pakistan and the countries of North Africa? And is it true that Lukashenka clearly articulates her expectations by saying that the migration crisis at the border between the European Union and Belarus will only end when the European Union removes the sanctions imposed on the Lukashenka regime after the fraudulent presidential elections in 2020?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, it is true that sanctions caused a reaction. If we were to become here... If the European Union wanted to talk to Lukashenka and said: "We will remove sanctions, we could probably get them for a while." For the sake of clarity: for a while, until a certain point Easing this pressure. But the truth is also that Belarusian lines fly in many places. The truth is that there are transfer hubs like Istanbul, like Dubai, unfortunately, like other cities. It is true that Belarusian lines make even several flights to Baghdad, Basra, Iraq. As you could see in Belsat TV materials, immigrants, young people, often dressed in sweats, are camping in the corridors of Minsk Airport. These people can be found at a bazaar in Minsk, where they buy warm clothes, and these warm clothes of course, they need them to cross the border. In Iraqi forums of different types you can read what it costs. There are descriptions of how much a taxi costs from Minsk to the border. From $200 to $500, depending on where he gets to. We have information that the Belarusian forces pass them through the so-called. a border zone which is almost 1 km long. In the case of Belarus, this is an area where the Belarusians themselves are not allowed to be present and where immigrants enter in mass. We also have information that Pakistan and Jordan will soon become those countries from which these immigrants will come. There is a recruitment, a haul of those people who have in their heads that the German social is higher than the average wage or even a high wage in their country. This is not enough, you can read such incentives: come to Belarus, from Belarus is a step to Germany, and in Germany you will get an apartment and give you a benefit. It's a business, of course. It costs thousands of dollars. Prices vary depending on the hotel standard in Minsk. Besides, all the hotels in Minsk are occupied, many private accommodations are also simply occupied. We are, ladies and gentlemen, witnessing a huge recruitment. If we don't put up a wall, if we don't put up a dam, it'll be an effective tool. The only way to win in this situation is to block it, show Łukasz that it's not that way. Of course, these people have Belarusian visas, we are aware of that. Most of those who have already arrived here say they don't have documents. They may have them hidden somewhere, maybe they were taken away, but they certainly prefer to hide their identity for some reason. The identification is ongoing, these proceedings are ongoing. These are really long, multi-monthly proceedings, which, for example. for certain Afghan leads are extremely difficult due to the absence of a country in Afghanistan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u254	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have this question: how many of these refugees or immigrants have you managed to capture on the Polish side as a reason for your escape were persecuted by Christians in Muslim countries? What kind of group is this? Are you checking it out? If the Minister has no knowledge of this, please answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u256	Mr. Senator, actually, I don't know about this, but I haven't heard. of this type of case. We'll check it out and give it to you in writing. But I'll admit I haven't heard it till today. that there should be people among these refugees who claim to be persecuted Christians and therefore come to the European Union. Of course, we'll examine it and hand it over. Of course, we will examine how many people have declared such a stay.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u257	Thank you very much. Senator Janusz Gromek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u258	Minister, well, we have the geopolitical position we have. We're happy for you. But that's what I'm saying... I wouldn't want to call a wolf out of the woods. And what's gonna happen... Because we are talking about the hybrid war of Łukaszenka Poland, and we are talking about Putin, about Russia too. Right? And what happens when we get ships coming in from Russia, throwing these immigrants on the beach and running away? I just... I don't expect an answer. That's the only thing that can happen. But I do now. Lukashenka, due to her political character and the fact that he plays hockey, he's a cold bastard. And he's gonna treat these refugees the way he treats them to this day. But the frosts are coming, winter is coming. And are you prepared, or are we, as Poles, prepared to do at least with these children and their mother or father? Are you prepared? That's one thing. Could there be such cases that among those who are at the border there are Afghans who helped Poles as we functioned there for many, many years and did not catch planes to Poland and otherwise got through? Unfortunately, without knowing the language, the borderman does not know if it is such a man who says: but I worked with Poles and I would like to use this help. Or the Kurds, who may also be persecuted in Iraq.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u259	Mr. Senator, the Afghans who worked with the Polish quota were usually able to deal with the Polish quota. Why wouldn't they get along with the Border Guard? I am convinced that we took not one less, but one more of those who worked with Poles. Besides, out of the thousands we brought in by air from Afghanistan, we already have 800, because 200 have not waited until the end of the international aid case, thanked you. Since we knew their personalities... They are already in Germany or other Western European countries. So that the Afghans who helped our contingent not to worry, Mr. Senator. You were talking about Putin here, about Lukashenka. Well, I mean, I would never get over it, Mr. Senator, that Putin is our man in Moscow. Really, no. [[What?]] Putin is our man in Moscow. I know politicians who say things like that. And I realize that Lukashenka does nothing without Putin's silent consent. And we need to show these Eastern countries that we are going to be a dam for their actions, that this is not the way. Showing weakness in such an international policy is almost suicide, Senator. And that's why I'm asking you... And that's why I told you yesterday at the committee meeting, I asked you to withdraw that motion you made. Because I believe that this is precisely the dispute, which is precisely the kind of hot atmosphere created in the Sejm, for example when adopting an extension of the state of emergency, does not serve Poland. It does not serve Poland. These regulations serve Poland. I, Mr. Senator, know that we can argue about the amount of taxes that we can argue about things, the way we organize the state, centralization, decentralisation. You're welcome. But there are things we shouldn't argue about. And I think that's what we're talking about today. That's why I'm asking the senators for a medical degree, not a rejection of this bill. [[Those kids are still...]] I already told you, Mr. Senator, that anyone who needs help in Poland, every officer of the Polish Border Guard, the army, the police will provide such assistance. I just want to say one thing. The kids aren't alone, they're with their parents. The fate of the children is decided by the parents. If parents do not apply for international assistance in Poland, they say they want to go to Berlin... We're not taking them to Berlin, Senator. Maybe they should go back where their stay is legal, to the country where they have a visa. There's a country.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u260	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u261	Minister, I have a brief question, but before I ask it, I would like to make it clear that I also consider Lukashenka a bandit, a criminal who, I hope, will one day be held responsible. I also believe that borders must be protected, and I bow to our services who do so on a daily basis. This does not preclude the fact that as a Christian, as a man who goes to church and hears about love for his neighbor, who must be loved as himself, you know it well by hand... I have a human feeling. I'm not hiding that I took in an illegal dog 7 years ago, and he was illegally on the street, too, and I'm taking care of him. Well, let's just say... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Don't compare, Senator, people to dogs...]] Okay, I'm just saying that what's illegal... It's not always that it doesn't require any help, so... all the more so when it comes to people. Yes? If I had sailed a boat and a refugee came up to me, I would have given him a hand, and I wouldn't have hit him with a paddle to make it clear. And now for a specific question... I'll just add, before I ask these three questions, that the economic aspect, Minister, is not exactly hit... I remember when I left for Austria for work... My mom used to make $15 a month as a teacher. Then Poles, me too, fled abroad to find a better world for themselves. There was a lot of money there, a lot more. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: And you were driving across the green border, Mr. Senator?]] Not because of the green. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Exactly.]] But it's about finding a better life and a better world. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Maciej Wąsik: But everyone is made for this...]] Minister, I'll say it again. Boundaries must be protected. We're not discussing this at all, and I don't think anyone in this room is questioning it. My questions. Minister, do you know any cases of pushback? Were there such cases or not? And if they were, how much? That's the first question. Second question. Was it justified by fear and argument regarding the introduction of an emergency in connection with the Belarusian maneuvers that take place every 2 years? It was one of the arguments that talked about it... [[Voice from the room: Every four.]] Every four, okay, fine. They are taking place and so far no emergency has been introduced. Was this argument and that convincing the unconvinced that these maneuvers were a threat the right thing to do? Senator's friend beat me a little bit with regard to persecuted Christians. In a group at the border... Do you have any knowledge that they, sitting in this forest, some of them, at least one or two... After all, they speak a foreign language, they don't speak Polish, they don't often speak English. Do you know if any of those in this zone on the Belarusian-Polish border, let it be that on the Belarusian side... Are there persecuted Christians fleeing Iraq or the Islamic State? Do you have that knowledge? How do you communicate with them? Do they say, "I am a Christian and I am fleeing persecution from the Islamic State?" Do you have that knowledge or not? Are you communicating with these refugees or not communicating? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u262	I might be the one to answer the end, Senator. The analysis of materials in the telephones of the detained refugees does not indicate that we are dealing with Christians. It's more like words... [[But I'm not talking about...]] Allah akbar, not in the name of the Father. [[I'm not talking about the prisoners. Today they're sitting on the border...]] We don't have... [[Do you have such...]] No one's sitting on the border, Mr. Senator! The border is a thin line. The people you are talking about are, I understand, those who are sitting on the Belarusian side and waiting for a weak point in the Polish border protection system to sneak through there to throw a ladder on the fence that built the army in fast mode. We do not know that people who are in Polish camps submit an application for international protection precisely because they are persecuted Christians. I don't have that kind of knowledge. This is case one. Second thing. Anyone who knows the history of Europe, anyone who looks at modern history, sees that huge maneuvers are a huge threat to the security of the states and that all alliances are preparing for maneuvers. And if we still have a coherence between the migratory crisis and maneuvering, then the introduction of a state of emergency in order to prevent... [[Voice from the room: Why?]] ...promotions at the border... e.g. Shooting a journalist... Do you understand? Did you know there were shots fired at the border? Do you know that? Shots fired. Did you know that Polish soldiers were being measured? Lukashenka was waiting for an opportunity to be provoked and she's still waiting. I believe that the introduction of a state of emergency is the only way to strengthen our forces at the border to strengthen the effectiveness of our actions so as not to give Lukashenka the opportunity to provoke. And I'll say one more thing: every legal method, whether you call it push or pull, which leads to border protection, is a method that we're going to use. Just as Spain applies the return of migrants from Morocco to the other side and there is a judgment that it acts correctly, in accordance with legislation and does not undermine fundamental rights. But we're talking about migrants, not refugees. [[Voice from the room: How do you know who's who?]] You know what, Mr. Senator, because if I don't know who's who... Can you accept that if you say that you are a refugee, you will be able to cross any border in the world illegally? No, because I know that there is no persecution in Poland, and I also know that there is no war in Iraq, and I also know... Of course, the standard of living may not be so high, but there is nothing wrong with it that people want to improve their budgets that they want to live better. You said he was going to Austria. But you didn't cross the green line, did you? You took advantage of the fact that the Austrians wanted you to work. Perhaps we would like to work with people who will make appropriate proposals and say: we want to work. Just as Belarusians or Ukrainians come to us for profit. Because not all Belarusians who come to us come to escape the system. There are 10,000 of them, but we still have thousands of Belarusians who come here to work, to help produce our GDP. ♪ Except that ♪ Please believe that our knowledge and experience shows that people who are on the other side of the border are really not looking for a job through agency agencies. Believe me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u263	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Frost a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u264	Minister, I have four questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Maciej Wąsik: O Jesus!]] First question. It has already been said here and by the questioners, and by the Minister, that the number of immigrants in Belarus is high and it is growing because new people are coming all the time. Do we as a Polish country have any estimates of how many people this is? 'Cause it depends on the pressure that's gonna be on our border. I understand it's probably changing. Do our services have such estimates as this, what is the perspective? That's one thing. Second thing. Today Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, and a few days earlier Minister Mariusz Kaminski spoke about the construction of new border installations. When can we expect to complete this type of target installation? Because, as I understand it, this fence that was quickly erected is some sort of rescue solution, and we're waiting for this solution, so to speak, target. Third line. Because this is where my friends were talking about Frontex. From the media, I know that the head of Frontex came to visit this border. What are the conclusions? And my last question. In this situation, which is at the border, do we have the support of the European Union? If so, what is the support? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u265	Mr. Senator! High Izbo! We have the support of the European Union. This is verbal support so far, but very strongly expressed, and by the Commission, and by the Member States. It's obvious because we're protecting the Schengen border. Of course, we are preparing appropriate requests to use EU funds to protect the Polish border. According to estimates of Polish services I've got the data from a few days ago. There are 8 and 12 thousand illegal migrants... i.e. people who want to be illegal migrants because they are legal in Belarus. This situation changes every day, new planes arrive every day, and every day we are dealing with new directions that we find out about. As far as the technical firewall is concerned, today too, the High Senate has had the opportunity to deal with the draft budget change and in this project there are funds for the Border Guard to carry out this investment. Of course, these are probably preliminary measures, first, we may need more, we will safeguard these measures with different methods. That won't be a problem, I'd like to emphasise. And I would also like to stress once again that if the other side were not to work together, the reinforcements or dams that the military did would have been absolutely sufficient. It would have been sufficient if it hadn't been for help from the Belarusian services. We wouldn't need anything else if it was a normal line that was exposed to pressure. And if there were yet to be cooperation between two services, there would be virtually no need to build anything, it would not be necessary if both services were working to protect the border. I will say that Frontex's boss was at the border on Monday, he was familiar with the conditions that existed there, he saw the border, he talked to our services, he was very, very impressed. It provides us with support, but we are also looking forward to helping Frontex on one important issue. It is about readmission, that is, helping to return to the country of origin of people who have already completed all these proceedings in Poland, although Frontex has problems, recently Frontex has not been granted permission to land in Tajikistan, we had a large group of Tajiks that we wanted to send back there. But, indeed, we are hoping for strong support from Frontex on this issue. Indeed, in this regard, It is extremely important, much more important than the physical presence of Frontex officers at the border.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u266	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Three short questions. First. When you issue a resolution, you collect, as I understand it, some data about a foreigner, if he doesn't have documents, some biometric data except for photographs. This should be attached to this provision, and then somehow collected and disseminated in Europe, because such a foreigner may try again to cross an illegal external border, not necessarily in Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u268	I think so, Mr. Senator. I'm gonna fall into a word like that. That the current rules already make it possible... [[They're already giving it to you, aren't they?]] ...so that we collect these biometric data. My Border Guard colleagues confirm it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u269	Good. Second line. Well, Lukashenka is somehow harassing, so I would say, in individual countries, people who want to live better at the expense of the social, generally German, and with this harassment probably somehow conveys the wrong or false picture of reality. Are you trying to show in the same places how it really is that for $10,000 they actually get one-way transport and the opportunity to participate in the survival and long-term? Are we gonna try to take some kind of propaganda action or maybe we're already doing it? In the countries where most people who want to cross the border illegally come from? And one last thing. This case has to end somehow, and it could end in two ways. It may be that Lukashenka resigns and stops bringing these people at some point. And what he's gonna do with those who are on his territory is hard to tell, but there could be a situation where he's gonna try forcefully and grouply, I'd call it, transport them across our borders, force them to cross. The question is whether, in view of this situation, we are not too limited by the introduction of paragraph. 1a to Article 33, in which we say that we can leave without recognition an application for international protection, unless the foreigner came directly from the territory in which his life or freedom threatened danger, etc., etc. This is a question, because in the end it may be that this danger will be real and this provision as if it would exclude the possibility for our bordermen to assess the situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u270	Senator, I answered the first question. As far as propaganda is concerned, let me answer that question, but so enigmatic. There are various materials in the forums that show that Lukashenka cheats those she invites. Often in materials which travel agencies, which, of course, interact with the regime... Because I would like to say that those people who fly through certain travel agencies have a faster check-in at the airports, and also at the airport in Minsk follow a different path. So that the Belarusian service clearly cooperates with those offices that do this, let's call it a haul, for example in Iraq or in other countries. They deceive these unfortunate people, because some of them are often convinced that there are already Germans abroad, that Białystok is Berlin. They do not realize that the border is heavily guarded. That's the kind of material that comes out there. Remember, these people have the Internet, they have smartphones, they communicate with their families, they have contact with them, they send information about weather conditions, climate conditions, things. I think there might be a situation soon where no one's gonna fall for this stuff anymore. But there are also propaganda materials there, in my propaganda assessment, about those who allegedly managed to get to Berlin, about the fact that it's nice that it's close, as in buttery, quick, like: here's a fantastic life, Germany is ours. These materials are different and different. That's all I'm gonna say, Senator. I will say this: of course, there may be such a situation that the regime will start using violence against these people, but then there will be no recruitment. Nobody's going to fly voluntarily. I am aware that Lukashenka will remain with the problem, and it would not be a bad solution for Poland if he understood that he did not bring the problem for Europe, but for himself.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u271	Thank you very much. Senator Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u272	Minister, the question is about the people who cross the border themselves. What is the social cross section of those who cross the border? I'm asking because following the media, I have the overwhelming impression that these are mostly women with small children or pregnant women or other people who are... And the reality is probably completely different. That's one thing. And the other thing. A hot request, a question to clarify one key issue. How is it possible that thousands of immigrants invade the Polish-Belarusian border, since at a distance from the border line itself there is quite a high fence... [[Voice from the room: Sistema.]] ...very well secured, called the "survivor," which for millions of euros was financed by the European Union a few years ago? How is it that these immigrants are in violation of the Lukashenka regime without any repression against them? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u273	If I may answer that question... Yes, indeed, there is a "sistema," 800 m, maybe a kilometer from the border line, loaded with electronics. They cross these people, immigrants do so only because they are carried out by Belarusian services. There's no doubt about that. What's the social cross-section? In the vast majority of these are young men of age, let's call it the draft, in the vast majority. Families are also, but they are a minority, although there are about 1/3 children, 1/3 women and 1/3 men who are detained and placed in our camps for obvious humanitarian reasons. But those who are trying to get in... This cross-section is completely different.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u274	Thank you very much. Senator Hibner.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u275	Thank you very much. Minister, at the conference, the Minister showed very drastic videos from the cells of those who crossed the border. They were pedophile movies, zoophiles. I'd like to know if the person who had such paedophile films or the other one who had zoophile content has been detained. Are they in jail yet? Are they being charged with anything? How many of these people have had movies like this? And one more thing. Is this a pedophile because you have to suspect that the person who has these movies is a pedophile... Was she sent to the border? Well, it's to be expected now that she can rape even Belarusian children or others if she's sent to the border... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: I share your concern, Senator.]] ...without prejudice to the Belarusian side of the guard... And this zoophile, if he was released to the border... What's the probability that he won't be harming our animals that are out there somewhere... sheep or cows or other animals... You don't know, it's perverts, they're perverts. Have these people been detained, or have they been sent back to the border and put them in danger? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u276	Senator, I'm very glad you're asking these questions, but I need to correct your statement here. No minister at the conference ever made a movie. We showed a small choice of this, but there was no movie, so we had knowledge and to fight disinformation... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like to say one thing to you, Senator. These people are detained by the Polish service. The material was made available to the D.A.'s office, and in a moment, that's the knowledge I have, if that's not the case, that's what these people will be charged with. If that didn't happen, I will, of course, answer... None of those persons who committed the crime was in any way handed over to the Belarusian side. I can assure you that the Belarusian side hasn't returned any calls from our Border Guard. [[And how many of those were there?]] Here's what I'm gonna say. In 200 cases, there were several such people who had pedophile and zoophile materials... [[And did you...]] A few. Well, I don't know if it was three or four... a few. So you could say a few percent.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u277	Thank you very much. That was the last question. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Can I sit down now, Mr. Marshal?]] Yes. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Senator Wojciech Nebula. I'm opening a discussion. He's the first to perform... Is Senator Kwiatkowski in the O.R.? He's not here. Senator, you'll have to go first.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have seen for a long time how the government of Law and Justice exceeds many borders in Polish politics. Now the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki has engaged in the destruction of other borders. This is the legal order governing the management of borders of the territory of the Republic of Poland. The authors of the draft law from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs propose to allow the Border Guard to issue a decision to leave the territory of the Republic of Poland to any person whom the commander considers to be a foreigner. This solution is extremely inappropriate. Each country is responsible for its own territory. If anyone enters our country, we cannot push that person out and pretend that he was never here. That's one thing. Secondly, the inhuman approach of our government is fully manifest here. If a person being pushed out of Poland on the basis of the proposed law wants to appeal against the decision of the Border Guard Commander, such a decision will be executed immediately. The truth is, even if a person expelled from Poland wins an appeal, he will never know. It will be an appeal without actual power. I know that if someone's life is in danger, you have to help someone like that. There's about 0oC in the Upper Usnara area tonight. The Minister knows this, receives regular reports, and yet offers these cold, dying people expulsion from Poland and unsuccessful appeals. However, the reality is that everyone at the border is likely to be in danger of life. How can it be assumed that those who are freezing at the border, pushed outside the country with violations of international law, will have the opportunity to learn about the current status of their appeal? I would like to remind you that, due to government censorship, even our citizens and citizens cannot find out what the situation is at the Polish-Belarusian border, let alone refugees who are in the forest. There is still a serious legal reservation. As we know, everyone except the Minister and the authors of the project, Polish legal acts are ranked in a hierarchy from the most important to the least important: constitution, international agreements, laws, etc. Today maybe we are in circumstances where this order is different. There is an international agreement in our legal order that is above the legal hierarchy of the proposed law. We ratified it in 1991 and its records are valid. These provisions are contrary to the provisions of the proposed law. The legal act I am talking about is the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees. It reads: "The Contracting States will not impose penalties for illegal entry or stay on refugees coming directly from the territory in which their lives or freedoms were threatened by danger within the meaning of Article. 1, and have entered or resided in their territory without authorisation, provided that they report to the authorities without delay and provide reliable reasons for their illegal entry or stay. According to good legal practice, in the event of non-compliance of a lower order legal act with a higher order act, the lower order act must be amended. At this point we are in this comfortable situation that the error has not yet been made and we do not need to change anything. Just reject the proposed changes and avoid a legal mess. It is a pity that it is not so easy to convince some to the basic principles of humanitarianism. To conclude, it is difficult to name the feelings that accompany us now. In Janusz Korczak's country, we are prosecuting the law that allows the inhumane treatment of refugees, including young children. There's nothing that can convince me to vote for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u279	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Come on in. [[Thank you. I'm resigning from the floor.]] Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I inform you that the Senators of Sweden, Chybicka, Gorgon-Komor, Gromko, Matecka, Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Pęcherz and Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that Senator Marek Borowski has submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. Does the representative of the government want to respond to the legislative proposal put forward? Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law of the Criminal Code and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 495 and the report of the Commission In print No 495 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On behalf of the Joint Committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, I would like to present a report on the review of the amendment of the Law The bill deals with matters related to the reduction of widely understood corruption phenomena, in this project there are a number of solutions such as. the deprivation of public rights of persons convicted of corruption, the prohibition of such persons from applying for public money under tenders or the prohibition of employment in companies where the Treasury or local authorities have at least 10% shares or shares, local governments and parliamentarians, or as part of an increase in the standard of public disclosure imposed on political parties by the obligation to keep and update registers of contributions and to place them in the Public Information Bulletin. Ladies and gentlemen, the joint committees in the course of their work at their meeting on 21 September have introduced a number of amendments, after having heard the voices of the experts who have prepared opinions for this project. We could read the opinions of Professor Ryszard Piotrowski, Professor Arthur Nowak-Far and Dr. Marcin Walecki. These opinions assessed the compatibility of the proposed regulations with the provisions of national law, including the basic law, i.e. the Constitution, the provisions of Community law, which bind Poland as a Member State of the European Union, or with recommendations from bodies such as GRECO or the Council of Europe, institutions specialised in reducing corruption and raising standards of public disclosure. In the course of the work, the committee accepted amendments tabled by Senators Bury, Kwiatkowski and Szejnfeld. Among these amendments are the following. The first is an amendment which, without denying the appropriateness of introducing a new criminal measure in the criminal code, in the form of a ban on the occupation of posts or the performance of work or the provision of services to public authorities and public institutions in the context of those who infringe the rules on the restriction of corruption, introduced the principle that the measure to be applied in the case of particularly outrageous corruption and official offences will be a measure to be applied by the court on the basis of the optional application of the criminal measure and not the obligation to apply it, i.e. the court will decide whether or not to apply it. Discretion in the decision on penalties and criminal measures in the assessment of applicants This position was supported by the members of the Joint Committee It is one of the most important manifestations of the constitutional principle of judicial independence and the principle of jurisdictional independence resulting from Article. 8 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is one of the key principles of the criminal trial. If the original solution had been adopted, in practice the court would have been brought into the machinery for the application of the rules, nothing would have been left to the judge's decision on the criminal measure to be applied in this respect. The second amendment was the one which, according to the original submission, introduced a new ban on committing crimes against the perpetrator... Unfortunately, this later did not find support at the level of the Parliament's work, but by decision of the members of the joint committees we restored the appropriate prohibition of the official crime described in the article. 231, which, as I emphasized, was originally in the presentation. The third amendment, which the joint committees considered appropriate to support, is an amendment which deletes the provision added as paragraph. 10, excluding from the rules of disclosure payments below the amount of PLN 10 000 and membership fees. We considered that the members of the Joint Committee should be disclosed. The fourth amendment, which created the greatest emotions especially at the stage of the Parliamentary work, was an amendment concerning when restrictions should enter for Members and Senators in the provision of work in public institutions and companies of the State Treasury. In line with the decision made by the parliamentarians at the stage of the Sejm's work, this restriction was to enter from the next parliamentary term. As the Legislative Bureau pointed out, if the initiators of the bill were to propose raising the standards of parliamentarians and stigmatizing the further-reaching politicisation of e.g. in the companies of the Treasury, they would have allowed this conflict and these negative phenomena to exist consciously until the end of their term of office, it would have been completely incomprehensible to the public. So we say that this kind of situation, that parliamentarians work in companies of the Treasury, is a pathological situation; the legislator sees the need to regulate and ban such a merger, while at the same time making an informed decision that these rules will only enter into force in over two years. Hence the decision of the joint committees to bring these rules into force more quickly. In practice, this provision would enter into force as would the rest of the amendment provisions, i.e. on 1 January 2022. Members of the Joint Committee considered it sufficient time for the parties concerned to adapt to the new wording. Otherwise, there might be a suspicion that the parliamentary majority adopting these rules today wants to protect its interests, the interests of those who combine the role of parliamentarian with another function, which the legislator in this act clearly considers negatively. It goes on for example. for employment in a company of the Treasury. Removal of the article. 11 'cause that's what this amendment is all about. It is also in the opinion of the Legislative Office that there is no reason for the provision of the law introducing the principle of incoherence between Member and Senator positions and a number of other public functions to enter into force later than the rest of the legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, the vast majority of the amendments were adopted by a large majority of votes, sometimes even without opposition. Sometimes somebody held off. I'm glad we could work on this bill in such a consistent way. At the same time, parliamentarians in the course of the joint committees' legislative work pointed out that they did not exclude that further amendments would be tabled in plenary, e.g. in the context of the register of contracts. But, of course, it is up to you and the senators to decide whether such amendments will be tabled. For my part, on behalf of the Joint Committees, I recommend that the High Senate adopt the Act in print No 495 in accordance with the conclusions of the Joint Committee meeting held on 6 October this year. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u281	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The design of this... [[Here...]] Oh, Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions for Senator Kwiatkowski. One concerns the amendment to which Article is deleted. 11. But the same is true of art. 12. He doesn't apply to Members and Senators, but he applies to the mayors, mayors, city presidents, i.e. the executives of the communes. Tell me why you didn't propose to delete this article. Okay? [[Can I answer right away?]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please, yes.]] But there's another question. By the way... The second point is this article. 12 related to... This is actually a transitional provision related to the article. 5. He says those restrictions that are applied in the article. 5, to be applied only to the executive bodies of municipalities, not to collegial executive bodies of powiats and voivodships. Why didn't you propose an amendment here that would even it out, give you a sense of justice that all executives of local government units are treated the same way?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u283	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u284	First... [[Voice from the room: You don't have a card.]] I answer the first question: because this is not the case. To the second question I answer: this is how the initiators of the law decided at the level of the Parliamentary works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u285	Thank you very much. No further questions. The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Jarosław Sachajko has been authorized to present the position of the Members of Parliament's draft law's applicants, but there is no Member. Therefore, I have a question for Minister Warchoł, who represents the Ministry of Justice: does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go. Minister, you can stay where you are if there's a microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u286	Yeah, you can stay where you are, 'cause I have a very short question. Why should this law in this part of the Message work from the next term rather than from this one?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u287	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u288	Thank you very much. Senator, for the constitutional protection of acquired rights. We don't change the rules of the game in its course. This is evident from the judgments of the Constitutional Court, because the principle of protection of acquired rights is linked to the principle of citizen's confidence in the State and its law. The legislator must not set traps for citizens, surprise them, create legal situations during a specific legal relationship that would introduce new solutions to those that occurred before the legal relationship was established. Let me give you an example: judgment of the Constitutional Court of 16 June 2003 K 52/02. The Court dealt with the request of the "Solidarity' concerning the equalisation of workers appointed on the basis of appointments with others whose employment relationship is precisely the result of the employment contract and concluded that the amendment of the rules of the game during the duration of the employment relationship would be in breach of the principle of citizen's trust in the State or the protection of acquired rights linked to the fundamental principle of the democratic rule of law referred to in Article. 2. So that the principles underlying such regulation are very important. And in addition, we vote for the voters. It is the voters who will decide whether they want to or not to choose specific representatives who have these and not other additional places of employment. So let's give the vote to democracy and the constitution. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u289	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. I don't know if he'll be able to answer. Why the rigors of this law have been covered by the functions exercised as a result of universal elections, i.e. executive bodies of municipalities, not those who are selected indirectly, i.e. the management boards of powiats and voivodships, i.e. Marshals and Vice-Marshals? And here, and here we have local government units.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u291	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u292	It wasn't us. As Ministry, we were applicants, but it was the will of the designers of this provision. Reading into the axiology of this project, it can be noted that greater obligations are imposed on those for whom there are greater risks of irregularities. The management of public property is much larger in the first group designated by your senator than in the second group. Therefore, such differentiation depends on how much specific competences and possibilities of corruption are, of course, abstractly. That's why it's so diverse.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u293	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u294	I'd like to ask the Minister... Because the Minister said that these regulations were a matter of protection of acquired rights, and as we know, they come from constitutional rules, and yet there is no clear formulation of these constitutional provisions, which causes many disputes. So I would like to ask you so precisely, on the example that those who listen to our sitting can understand this: that is, if Mr Lech Kołakowski becomes the adviser to the President of BGK for several tens of thousands of PLN a month, his rightfully acquired right, I understand, is the remuneration that he collects in the bank as a particularly protected good that the legislator should protect? Have I understood the Minister correctly?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u295	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u296	Speaking of specifics, I gave an example of equalisation of workers on the basis of appointments with employees on the basis of a contract of employment. And according to the contested provision, which I referred to as... The applicant indicated that the employment relationship set out in the Act of Employment on the basis of appointment is transformed into employment relationships under the employment contract. Therefore, such regulation, which would enter into force at the time of these relations, would surprise the recipients of such standards. We're dealing with the same situation here. Therefore, it violates, I repeat, the principle of protecting the citizen's confidence in the State and its law. The State cannot set traps for citizens, it must not deprive them of certain exhibitions, certain subjective rights. He may do so, but in good time, in a way that they can settle their professional, life, social relationships with the right distance. In addition, this will be subject to democratic evaluation at the election stage. So we have double control here. Firstly, the control introduced by the legislator is precisely this solution, and secondly, the control carried out by the voters themselves. Well, there's no better system. We avoid all these pitfalls referred to in the above-mentioned judgment of the Court, and I will repeat: K52/02 and many other judgments. The caselaw here is clear: you cannot change the rules of the game during it. It's like all of a sudden, during the game, allowing 10 players to be replaced on the field.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u297	Minister, it comes to me and I must say this: it is a pity that you did not remember this on 16 December 2016 when adopting the Repressive Law. There you go, Mr... Senator Kwiatkowski wanted to speak again. Then you're Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u298	Yeah, yeah, I'd like to ask... Because the caselaw, contrary to what the Minister says, is not uniform. I can call a specific ruling, but I don't have time in this formula. But I would say... so that citizens on a case-by-case basis can analyze it. You said that we are particularly protective here so that the citizen is not surprised in this regard. I have the impression that Mr Kołakowski was surprised that at the age of sixty and a few years, as an administrative officer, he was an outstanding banking manager. And so I would say that, I think, this surprise was rather on his side in connection with this nomination. So here I have the impression that it would rather require protection to surprise the citizens that I would say so. Example Well, it's hard to say otherwise, I'd say buying political support, it happened in this case... When we talk about protecting certain rights, it is a citizens' and voters' right not to be surprised by such decisions. So I'm surprised you're surprised that we're protecting the surprise of someone who was surprised that he was called.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u299	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u300	It was, it seems, a statement that I do not agree with, of course. Mr. Senator's statement. That wasn't a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u301	Thank you. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u302	Minister, you were talking about calling, about people who have a function either by appointment or in the normal way of the employment contract. Do Members and Senators serve as vocations, or by choice, or as part of any other form of employment? That's one thing. I'm asking because you're talking about a few cases that I don't think apply to Members or Senators. Am I right or am I right? That's my question for you. Secondly, I would also like to say that there have been laws that have violated this sacred principle that you mention. This concerned public television workers whose employment contracts were terminated were completely terminated within 3 months. This has also been the case recently for employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where the same change has been introduced. Don't you think that the introduction of this law in respect of Members and Senators by choice will result in them having to make a decision either to resign from additional employment or to resign from their mandate?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u303	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u304	For me, there's one criterion. The voter's will. They choose, they decide. Let us give the floor to all those who will vote in the forthcoming elections and decide for themselves whether they prefer and want a Member or a Senator employed in a company or not employed or engaged in any additional activity or not. They evaluate the work of a Member in the fields of legislation, lawmaking, interpellation, assessment of the whole and know his fellow Member well, know whether he is working or not. And this Member or Senator I'm telling you. It will be able to set up its personal and professional relations in the next term of office in such a way as to give it sufficient time to take such decisions. And that's something obvious. So if there is a negative voter assessment, this Member will not appear in the next term of office of the Sejm and the senator in the Senate term. For me it is the final criterion: the will of the sovereign. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanka: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u305	The point is, Minister, as it is right now, I mean, there's a procedure right now and now. If you believe that the sovereign's will in this matter is essential, then what is the purpose of this law at all? You may have additional work to pay many times higher than the parliamentary or senator's salary in the next term, if it is the will of the voters. Your justification doesn't add up, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u306	Senator Janusz Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u307	I do not know whether to continue, but I will ask this question: how, in this context, which we are talking about today, can we explain a 20% reduction in the salaries of Members, mayors' senators or city presidents from a few years ago? Well, that's the question: can you explain it? I don't think we can explain it, and if we do, we can ask ourselves another question. Since we know that in two years' salary or salary Maybe it's better to pay. The parliamentarian will be as high as he is, so we can consciously assume that we are going because we know, so we will not be surprised at anything. But if they'd lowered me in the process, I'd be surprised. And according to what the Minister says here, I shouldn't be surprised that someone's gonna lower my salary again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u308	Senator Wadim... Because the Minister, I see, doesn't have... [[Voice from the room: He can't answer.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: These were not questions.]] Well, that wasn't the question. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. [[It was: how to explain...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u309	Minister, I have a question. However, I will continue to go on with these acquired rights, because the Ministry was doing this. I mean acquired rights concerning members of the National Court Register whose term of office has been interrupted during its term of office. [[Were there any rights acquired?]] Yes, they had rights acquired. And why did you deprive them of their acquired rights? That's my first question. The second acquired rights of military pensioners who were deprived of their pensions. They had rights acquired, they were taken away. So two questions. Oh, there's one more thing I'd like... Maybe the Minister... But this is completely different, substantive. I'm talking about the scale of corruption. What caused you to implement this law? Has corruption increased? What's the scale? How many corruption cases are there in the local government? I don't know, 10, 20, 100... do you have data on the scale of corruption? Those three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u310	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u311	Thank you very much. Starting with the last question... We'll put these statistics in writing. In addition, general data are provided in the explanatory memorandum. So that we can specify them and update them. [[But did this scale increase or not?]] We'll answer in writing. And speaking of the first part... We are currently dealing with not the KRS Act, not some law that you quoted, about pensions, we are dealing with the Law on amending the penal code, so-called. It's an anti-corruption bill. That's what we're discussing. We discussed the KRS at one time. The situation was completely different in the case of the KRS Act, because we changed the method of appointment. The Democratic National Judicial Council replaced the former corporate council. So the change in the system was accompanied by that major change. That's two completely different stories. But we're not going back to that discussion, we're dealing with this bill. I say protection of acquired rights and prohibition of changing the rules of the game during it. Thank you. [[Minister, the rights acquired...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u312	Mr. Senator, wait a minute. I'd really like to ask you to come in and ask questions. You still want to ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u313	Just make it up because you didn't answer the question. The rights acquired, I understand, have different definitions depending on the situation. Acquired rights are acquired rights, and the state treats it so that there are other rights acquired in the National Court Register and now there are other rights acquired. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u314	Once again, these judges have not ceased to be judges at this moment. Only due to a change in the system of the National Judicial Council By creating this more democratic choice, this type of regulation had to take place instead of the earlier corporate one. It's a natural consequence. It's not like they've been deprived of their duties as judges. They could still judge. They could still be judges. Here is the place for acquired rights. However, in this situation we are talking about, a specific Member or Senator plans his professional relations in advance. Someone takes credit, someone moves, rents an apartment just to make a decision. And in the end, who decides that? An election in free democratic elections. And this voter is gonna judge an MP or a senator. He's gonna judge whether he can make money or not, and he's either gonna pick him or he's not gonna pick him. This is the best verification criterion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u315	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm really impressed with your answer. I know your academic titles. I learned from you today that, in fact, these judges could judge themselves, because no one threw them out. And you know what it's called. The principle of the indispensability of judges? She has nothing to do with acquired rights. Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u316	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I can honestly say that I don't know if he made me laugh more or if he upset you with your lecture on the sustainability of law and acquired rights. I'll remind you. In addition to these examples, which my colleagues have already provided, i.e. the judges of the KRS, a sudden reduction for wojites, mayors and parliamentarians a few years ago or TVP journalists Two more examples of legislation for which your formation and your parliamentary club voted. This is the Foreign Service Act, which took away the privileges of women raising young children, suddenly, without any warning, and so-called. Five Kaczyńskis, which in effect would force them to close immediately legally functioning businesses, some worth tens of millions of zlotys. Well, from this last disaster, fortunately, the High Senate of the Republic saved. I have a question for you. Since you voted in favour of all such solutions that other social groups From journalists to diplomats to uniforms, they have deprived their acquired rights, and now you want to maintain them just because hundreds of your colleagues are chasing at the state's tens and hundreds of thousands, do you withdraw from your claim that it is the stability of the law, or do you agree with my statement that your speech is an example of a far-reaching hucpa and insolence?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u317	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u318	No, I'm not backing out. And I fundamentally disagree with the senator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u319	Thank you very much. No further questions. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to a question asked by Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u320	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. I must say that, as rapporteur for the committee, I did not initially plan to speak now, but I think that we really need to appreciate the importance of the fact that took place in this Chamber. We have a breakthrough on the legal level, even I would say that the Copenhagen discovery. From now on, we need to know that rights are acquired wherever they concern members and sympathizers of the United Right, members of Law and Justice, Solidar Poland and other political environments supporting them. Wherever a member of the PiS or support parties gets a job in a State Treasury company, that is his right acquired. And according to you, the minister should be protected. But if the citizen was a foreign servant, we're talking about thousands of people. Civilian service, member of the National Council of Courts, otherwise for a term of office appointed... Because civil servants or foreign servants deliberately chose their profession and had to deal with a profession whose ethos were associated with the service, which, at least in the intention of the creators of these laws, was to bind these people because of the exceptional nature of the work for the Polish state for the entire period of their professional activity. But it turns out these aren't acquired rights. In accordance with the definition that has just been presented in this Chamber. Of course, the Constitutional Tribunal here says otherwise, because the Constitutional Tribunal in its various judgments They're not uniform, it's worth mentioning the different ones, says yes. With a view to As the Court of Justice once said, socio-political and systemic transformations, it should be assumed that the principle of protection of acquired rights is a specific brake for the deprivation of acquired rights without strong justification, thereby limiting the legislator and his interference into the sphere of civil rights. Turns out there are first- and second-class citizens. There are citizens whose civil rights, according to this definition, are to be protected in particular. I understand that Mr Kołakowski, even though no one would deprive him of his parliamentary mandate if those regulations entered into force... Sovereign has taken a decision of Mr Kołakowski is a parliamentarian and will remain a member until the end of the term of office for which he was elected. But it was not the sovereign who chose him as President of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. As we know, he received this post after a joint conference with President Jarosław Kaczyński and stated how important he played a role in building a parliamentary majority. Yes, it concerns the provisions of this law. That is why the legislators have prepared a project that clearly speaks of the ban on joining these positions. We support you in this initiative. There were no votes against at the Senate committee meeting. On the contrary, we felt that protecting the principle that there should be no such relationships that the role of parliamentarian is linked to the work of the Treasury companies is so important that it is impossible to wait for its entry into force. There is no protection of acquired rights of advisors to the President of BGK or employee of any company of the Treasury. The right acquired, protected, linked to the constitutional principle of the term of office for which the elected parliamentarian was elected is his parliamentary or senator's mandate. No one's gonna deprive these people of their tickets. Minister, I am asking and appealing that you do not make a similar argument in the Sejm. We in this room went about it a little humorously. This makes it easier for us to know that it's after 10:00 p.m. In the Seym, the time may be earlier. You may not have the same ridiculous sympathy with your statements if you say so in hours earlier than now in the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u321	Thank you very much, Senator. Let me inform you that the list of speakers has been... Senator Tyszkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u322	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll cheer you up. I've had my amendments prepared, but I'm pulling out of them. Forgive me for taking the floor. I'm not gonna make any more adjustments. Ladies and gentlemen, in connection with the bill to protect against corruption, I would like to ask a rhetorical question to the Minister. What kind of corruption are we talking about? Right here in the prof room. Piotrowski said that we should not divide corruption into ordinary corruption and political corruption. This should particularly apply to those who are genuinely upholding the law. It's also addressed to the Minister. Corruption must be fought, and no one is questioning it. But how is corruption done by the President of Sopot, which he was accused of, such that in his car shop someone repaired his car cheaper, to political corruption, in which case for loyalty to the party, the vote gets a function which is, as if rewarded with a payout of PLN 50,000, PLN 30,000 or PLN 40,000? What's the ratio here? We should... [[A month.]] A month, of course a month. We should fight political corruption first, Minister, although, as I said, prof. Piotrowski asked me not to use that name. This is corruption the worst possible, because political parties buy votes for public money. Maybe that's what happened after 1989, I don't know, but the scale of what's happening today is shocking. I repeat, it's shocking. I do not hide that I was willing to make amendments to the bill, but because I was convinced that these amendments would be unconstitutional, I will not submit them. I hope that we will live to see such a time when it is possible, perhaps by amending the constitution, which I hope will happen, to lead to the liberalisation of a political party that would commit considerable political corruption. We're not talking about some minor transitions from one club to another. We are talking about political corruption, which causes the party to hold power at all costs, paying for voting, for belonging to the party with huge public money. I wanted to make an amendment aimed at the loss of a parliamentarian's mandate for changing club colours. Believe me, I have the results of the research on this subject. In this respect, social expectations are gigantic. Poles would like to see parliamentarians selling their support, which they obtained during the elections, when they competed in elections from a particular political party, under certain banners, parliamentarians who change these colours, losing their mandate. And I hope we'll see about that, too. I have an amendment that prohibits the joining of the Secretary of State with the function of parliamentarian. I'm not gonna make that amendment, because when we read exactly into the constitution... When the constitution was created, it says that when it comes to combining these functions, ministers and secretaries of state are excluded. It's just that when the constitution was created, it never occurred to anybody that there would be a pathology that we're dealing with today, that there are several state secretaries. The law is broken, Minister. Now that you're talking about law enforcement, I'm also directing it to the right side of the room where it's only there, and thank you for that, 2 senators... [[3.]] ...sorry, 3 is art. 37th Act on the Council of Ministers states that the Secretary of State should be one. And how many Secretarys of State are there right now? I can't even count. But the fact that there are two, three, four ministries has already become the norm. Why? Because the ruling party is practicing political corruption. And I could ask you a question... Because many parliamentarians and senators on the right side of the speaker are decent people. I wonder how these people are not ashamed to stand on the side of those who commit corruption worse than stealing sausages or stealing drills or stealing bread, because public money brings political corruption of really great proportions. How to explain that the drafters of this law are talking about the fight against corruption and, at the same time, Mr Zuk of the Kukiz party may not have had any function, but his son suddenly found himself on the supervisory board of PGE, just before the votes, at the moment when the fate of whether or not there would be a parliamentary majority will be? Is it corruption or not? Of course, in the majesty of the law today, it is difficult to prove that it is corruption. in the purest form. It is to me. So what's the deal with corruption? Is that hypocrisy? In my opinion, this is hypocrisy of the greatest size. Once, you remember, there was a big deal because Mr Beger was caught trying to deal with her voice. It's history today. Those events were so little fun about what's going on today. Does the Ministry of Justice have an idea to fight corruption that is really gigantic today? Let me give you one last example. Member of the Parliament I don't know if you're familiar with that name. This is the man who came out of my wings, and then Mejza, at the age of 24 on my list, got into the Seym of Lubuskie Voivodeship, became a councilman, and later, after the death of Minister Fedak, became a parliamentarian. Ladies and gentlemen, from what I have read, it appears that Mr Majza will become Deputy Minister of Sport at the age of 30. What was Mr Majza's relationship with sport? Anyway, at the sports club, the football club, Zastal was a flight attendant, which means he was blowing up guests, pointing out where they were supposed to sit. These are his powers to become Deputy Minister of Sport. Why should he be? Because one or two votes are missing from the governing party, and in order to win this majority, the governing party is committing political corruption at its worst. I'm almost done. How does that have to do with stealing sausages, drills, or corruption connected with someone helping someone out? This is hypocrisy. This law proposed by you is the height of hypocrisy. She's just here to explain why we sold out. I am talking about a few Members of the party who today in the polls have a support rate of 1 and 2%. But he's got a few votes to sell himself expensive. This is corruption on a gigantic, unprecedented scale, and we should fight such corruption. I hope that we will live to see such a time that the party that is allowed to do such corruption will be delegalized. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u323	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, you don't have a voice right now. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute. Mr. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u324	Thank you very much. I was gonna say... [[Self-defense...]] ...really defending self-defense because self-defense can't defend itself. Well, Mrs Beger has been tried to corrupt, not corrupt, and she has not been corrupted. So I have to say it to make it sound like it. [[Sure.]] This is where the senator made a mistake and said the opposite. [[Which I'm sorry about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u325	Thank you very much. Has anyone else signed up for the discussion? Senator Victor Durlak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, please be calm. I'm sleeping quietly. That's all you've said, it can only be your feeling. The feeling may be wrong. You didn't assume you might be wrong about what you said. And if you're sure of what you're saying, report to the D.A.'s office that there's corruption going on somewhere. [[Talking in the O.R.]] As for Mr Breiza... No, no. What's his name? [[Voice from the room: Meiza.]] Yes, Majza. You didn't behave nicely with him. If, as you said, he came out of your wings, maybe you've prepared him well for a function that he'll probably or will not be, we don't know yet, he's done it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u327	Thank you very much. I'm informing you that... One moment, Minister, this is the Senate. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators Alexander Szwed, Ryszard Świlski and Janusz Pęcherz made written speeches in the minutes. Legislative proposals were submitted by Senator Ryszard Bober and Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. The discussion is closed. Does the government representative want to respond to the legislative proposals that have been tabled?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u328	Thank you very much. The peak of corruption is to hold for almost a year, because a year will pass in December 2021 from the moment of recognition, a motion to waive the immunity of Senator Kochan, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u329	Minister, I'd like to ask... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Over six months...]] ...do you wish to respond to the conclusions? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Yes.]] Then please respond to the requests that have been made.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u330	There is a request in your House for the waiver of the immunity of Marshal Grodzki over six months. This is, Mr. Senator Tyszkiewicz, the height of hypocrisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u331	Do you want to respond to these conclusions or not? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you, Minister, for coming to the Senate. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 498 and the report of the Commission In print No 498 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Arthur Dunin, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u332	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I would like to present a report on the amendment of the Road Transport Act and some other laws. Maybe two words about the bill first. The main objective of the draft law amending the Road Transport Act and other laws is to align Polish legislation with Directive 2018/645 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 April 2018 and Directive 2006/126/EC on driving licences. The amendments to the Act concern inter alia. clarification and extension of the application of exceptions to the Directive on the initial qualification and periodic training of drivers of certain road vehicles for the carriage of goods or passengers, the establishment of a new document in the form of a driver's qualification card as a document confirming the driver's entitlement to work as a driver, the exchange of information on issued and withdrawn driver qualification certificates, the introduction of a professional driver profile, the extension of the suspension institution's entitlement to drive. These are the main issues arising from the amendments made to this law. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we held a committee meeting on which the Minister presented the principles of the law. I believe that the discussion was good and substantive, for which I thank you very warmly on behalf of all the members of the committee. Thank you for actually taking this very seriously and substantively. 12 amendments were made, all adopted by the committee. The Commission recommends that this law be adopted with amendments. If your marshal will allow me, I won't be in the middle of a discussion at this late hour. Well, I was the author of two amendments, but after the discussions after the committee meeting, but before the plenary and this speech, I would like to make an additional amendment. In short, I would like to say that the legislator predicted that candidates for instructors must have at least 10 years of internship. The amendment that I presented and which was voted out was about changing this ten-year internship to a 5-year internship. There was no reference to traineeships in international courses in this record. I would like to amend this amendment, which is to put on your hands, Mrs. Marshal, an amendment in which I leave this 5-year internship, but I am counting it along with the international carriage. Minister, if you can relate to this, I would be very grateful. In that case, I will no longer speak. [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I will once again declare, on behalf of the committee and my own, as well as my club, that we will vote in favour of this amendment act. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u333	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to our meeting of Minister Rafał Weber. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State of the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Yes, Mrs Marshal.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u334	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senator rapporteur has quite precisely defined the principles of this law, so that I will not duplicate it. It's late hour, and I know there's more points ahead of us. I will refer to the amendment that the senator put forward here. Yesterday there was actually a discussion on this subject. The idea of the Ministry of Infrastructure is that the instructor, i.e. the trainer of future professional drivers, drivers who run both buses and heavy vehicles Not only in the country, but also abroad, there was an experienced person with experience in both domestic and international transport. And this requirement of experience in international transport we want to maintain. I believe that this is important, especially because of the need to pass this experience on to younger people who are just aspiring to be a professional driver. And that's something we'd like to keep in this project. When it comes to reducing this internship from 10 to 5 years, we're open. When the High House accepts this amendment and it will be part of the bill passed between the Senate and the Sejm, we will take a closer look at it. If there is no lock box, unless there is a trap, unless there is something, as it is said, written with a fine print, I would recommend that this amendment be kept in the Sejm-level bill. I said this by referring to the point which the Senator rapporteur raised in his speech. If there are any other questions from your senators, I'm at your disposal. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u335	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rotnicka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u336	Thank you, Marshal. I'm going to ask you something very briefly so that I can give you the information you have now provided. International experience, but in five years, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u337	Yeah, that's right. I understand that this is the intention of this amendment. If this intention is expressed in the very provision which has been tabled in the form of an amendment, then yes, we are able to accept that intention. [[So we're not eliminating this foreign experience, we're shortening time?]] Once again, I confirm.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u338	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Aleksander Szwed, Ryszard Świlski, Mariusz Gromko and Janusz Pęcherz, and Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz made speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted by Senators Jan Hamerski and It's also very recent. Arthur Dunin. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Legislative proposals have been tabled. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: To those who have now been submitted in plenary? I already did, so thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. Only then will we be able to proceed with the voting procedure on the project. It will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Aviation Law and the Law on Border Guard. The text of the Act is contained in print No 500 and the report of the committee In print No 500 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u339	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the committee that you mentioned to the marshal, information on the course of the committee meeting. The purpose of this law is to bring the provisions of the Law on Water Law of July 2002 into line with European Union law. It concerns mainly Regulation 2019/103, which will apply from 31 December this year. This regulation has made significant changes to the provisions on common basic standards for civil aviation security. It concerns the background check of persons carrying out civil aviation security tasks. The Act sets out the scope of activities undertaken in the framework of standard and extended background checks, categories of persons subject to this verification, entities responsible for this verification, and the frequency of these checks. Come on. The Act also sets out a new catalogue of negative indications and a new catalogue of offences, introduces a number of changes concerning the Border Guard's powers to check the past, determines the amount of administrative fines for non-compliance with the new obligations imposed, as well as the entities responsible for imposing them. It sounds a little complicated, ladies and gentlemen, but that is the language, say, of European laws, of the European Commission. As a consequence of the amendments made to the Law, the Aviation Law was also amended in the Border Guard Act of 12 October 1990, as it extended its competence. The Act is to enter into force on 31 December 2021 with the exception of a provision which requires the Chief Border Guard to establish access to the CIS-SG application, which should be translated as a verification of negative grounds As I mentioned at the beginning, two senate committees, local government and infrastructure, discussed the bill at yesterday's meeting. They have not tabled any amendments to it and submit it to the High House for adoption as it came from the Sejm. I ask the High House to accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u340	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. At this point, I would like to welcome Mr Marcin Horala, Secretary of State. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u341	Mr Marshal, Senator, the rapporteur has presented the matter of the law in a very synthetic manner and has presented it comprehensively. Just a little bit of correction. At the beginning of her speech, the senator was gracious to speak about the amendment of the Water Law Act. This is, as I understand it, an obvious slip and it's about air law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u342	Lapsus lingue. It's because of the Senator's specialty. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up for the vote, but you have made a speech to the minutes by Senators Alexander Szwed, Ryszard Świlski and Janusz Pęcherz. No legislative proposals have been tabled. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Construction Law and the Law on Planning and Land Planning. The text of the act is contained in print No 503, and the report of the committee In print No 503 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Bęcherz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think it's gonna be that fast now. I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Committees, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, on the Law adopted by the Sejm on the amendment of the Law of Construction and the Law on Planning and Spatial Development; Parliamentary Printing No. 1534, Senate Printing No.503. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to these committees. The joint committee meeting was held yesterday. After considering the bill, the joint committees ask the High Senate to approve the attached draft resolution. The main objective and the need to amend the Law of 7 July 1994 is that construction law must provide simple legal solutions to enable the construction of single-family homes in order to meet their own housing needs. The Act introduces the possibility of building single-family houses without obtaining a building permit, without the establishment of a construction manager and without keeping a construction log in the so-called procedure. applications with a construction project. In the absence of a local spatial planning plan, a decision on the conditions of construction is envisaged, so-called. wousts, for these types of objects within 21 days. The object of the application is to be a building with an area of up to 70 m2. Although these objects are supposed to be small and simple, they are allowed to be no more than two floors. The Act assumes that houses built with an area of up to 70 m2 will be freestanding buildings, and determines the permissible density of buildings, indicating that the number of these buildings cannot be greater than 1 per 500 m2 of plot area. An investor will be required to accompany the declaration of freestanding, no more than two-storey single-family residential buildings up to 70 m2 with a declaration made under criminal liability that the planned construction is carried out in order to meet his own housing needs and that he accepts responsibility for the management of the construction in the event of an undetermined construction manager. The body of the architectural and construction administration shall, for a period of not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days, include relevant information on the public information bulletin on the subject-matter side of the office serving it. In addition, building houses up to 70 m2 to meet their own housing needs will require notification of the building supervisory authorities and the designer supervising the conformity of the construction implementation with the project with the intended date of commencement of work. The investor will also be obliged to require geodetic land designation and, after building a house, to carry out a geodetic post-executive inventory. The Act provides for differentiated requirements for the construction of a house with an area of up to 70 m2 and an individual recreation building, with an increase of up to 70 m2 of the permissible building area of freestanding ground-floor individual recreation buildings with a width of not more than 6 m and an extension of brackets limited to 2 m. The draft law discussed today was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 8 September 2021. "Sejm printing, as I said earlier, is nr. 1534. Its first reading took place in the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. At second reading, Members submitted a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety and 11 amendments, but both the rejection proposal and the amendments were not supported in the third reading. The Sejm passed the bill on September 17th. 248 Members voted in favour, 178 against and 20 abstentions. The draft law was subject to public consultation, but the local government party regrets that the government party did not wait for the opinion of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government Commission and addressed the draft law to the Sejm, in breach of the standards of cooperation and consultation between the government and the local government. At the same time, the local government pointed out that the project planned for the process contained such far-reaching changes compared to the project made available in the context of the public consultation and the opinion that it was essentially a new project and that it should be re-examined and consulted as such. These differences between projects are mentioned by the social side as much as 15 and these differences are quite serious. The joint meeting of the Joint Committees was attended by inter alia. Piotr Uściński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology, together with her colleagues, Mrs Dorota Cabańska, acting as Chief Inspector of Construction Supervision, with colleagues, and Mr Leszek Korczak from the Department of Infrastructure of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Senators Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Janusz Pęcherz, and Andrzej Porawski, director of the office of the Polish Towns Association, Adam Korgul, representative of Warmia-Mazurski communes and powiats, who presented both the position of the municipalities and districts, as well as the position of the Board of the Silesian Association of Municipalities and Powiatów, President of the National Council of the Polish Chamber of Construction Engineers, representative of the Chamber of Architects of the Republic of Poland, representative of the Polish Municipal Union, representative of the Polish County Union, expert in spatial planning Ryszard Kowalski and Michał Olszewski, deputy president of Warsaw. The main problems raised in the discussion were issues that were repeated practically in the speeches, but they are important enough that I will mention some of these main problems. Firstly, according to the solutions proposed, the investor will have to take on the criminal liability which so far rested on the construction manager with adequate education, experience and above all insurance against civil liability in the event of errors or disasters, which, of course, the private investor will not have. Here there were various estimates that the savings resulting from the lack of employment of the construction manager would be actually small. The various calculations provide for a reduction in costs in this respect in the order of 0.5% up to a maximum of 2%. That's 2%. It's even a little exaggerated. This law opens the door to home setting virtually without any control. In fact, it establishes that these houses can only be built for the investor's own housing needs, on the basis of a statement. But how will it be verified? Who's gonna stop selling a house like this in a year, two years or five years after they built it? Who's gonna check if the house is really 70 m2? Although here a representative of the Ministry or Minister explained that it would be verifiable, there will certainly be a lot of problems with verification. This is a big legal gap, beneficial for investors who want to make money quickly. Those were the suggestions. It should be pointed out that the registration of such a house of up to 70 m2 must be accompanied by practically the same number of documents as in the case of a building permit decision, and construction may take place even on the date of submission of the documentation. And the question is: will the architectural and construction body have the opportunity to read this documentation, or, all the more so, will it be able to respond in the event of a lack of documentation? The result of this law, as they have pointed out, will be architectural chaos, just as is happening today in gardens where changes... arise as a result of such actions of various types of architectural creations and the like. Of course, there were other serious reservations, among others. such that there is no possibility for the Authority to object even in a situation of conflict of law. I'm not gonna go into detail here, I'm just gonna exchange some basic notes. Another remark is the imposition of a penalty for exceeding the deadline for issuing decisions on housing conditions and shortening the time of agreement and silent consent. Here, imposing a penalty for exceeding the deadline... A new 90-day deadline was introduced when deciding on the construction conditions for all types of objects. This is a major revision of the legislation, which is not linked to the basic objective of the proposed amendment of the legislation, which is justified by the need to provide simple legal tools to enable the construction of single-family homes to meet their own housing needs. This change leads to a clear priority decision on the construction conditions in relation to local land use plans. In turn, shortening the deadline for issuing decisions on housing conditions for houses, which we are mainly talking about here, i.e. houses up to 70 m2 of the area, only up to 21 days and time of arrangement up to 7 days... According to the people here, this is actually impossible in practice. Another amendment is the introduction of new rules for recreational buildings. As I mentioned earlier, this is a change in the permissible area of buildings of freestanding buildings. The proposed change here assumes that we could build a house of up to 70 m2, which would be a one-storey house. According to experts, it would be easier and safer to build a building that has 2 floors than an object that has 1 floor and 70 m2 buildings. I would like to draw attention to a few more elements that have been raised. When the control of the architectural and construction administrations is excluded, the responsibility for the investor's compliance with the laws and regulations should rest with the construction supervisory authorities. It has been pointed out that, especially in the departments of the service, although they are very, very well prepared in substance, they are so severely weakened that they are unable to meet these requirements. Another thing that has been pointed out is the 70-metre recreational building, where there is a width of construction elements up to 6 m and a height of brackets up to 2 m. This provision can also create another area for abuse, as it will allow for easy circumvention of both building law and the law on spatial planning and development. It's a matter of 21 days and punishment. This is a serious reservation from all interested parties, especially the representatives of the counties and municipalities, who believe that in the current situation the state of employment in the offices is insufficient, that they will often not be able to make such a decision within 21 days. This is related to the penalty of PLN 500 per day of delay if this is reported by the investor concerned. These are the most serious things that have been raised. Mr President, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, at the end of a long, substantive discussion, made a motion to reject the bill and this motion was voted out. There were 10 votes in favour of the motion to reject the bill, six senators were against. The motion to reject the bill has been voted out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u344	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development, Work and Technology was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. At this moment, I welcome the representative of the government, Mr. Secretary of State Piotr Uściński. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Hello.]] Hello, sir. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u345	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am very pleased and it is an honor for me to present this bill, which is part of the Polish Order. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that the Senator rapporteur has actually presented the content of this law and I will not repeat it. All I'm gonna say is that we want to give people a chance to build their own house. So far people have sometimes had administrative problems, there have been lengthy procedures, many months, sometimes they have had to translate their investment into subsequent construction seasons. We want them not to face a dilemma or undertake a difficult administrative procedure to build their dream house with a surface... If we have a building area of 70 m2, then at 2 floors it can be one hundred and several meters and even more usable space. Are they going to build a house where they can raise their children? Even a large family we imagine at home more than 100 meters long, do they have the same money to buy a studio apartment, say, in a big city? We don't want to tell them, don't buy a condo, you build a house. We want to give them freedom, we want to give them free choice. We want to give them a simple administrative procedure, which will make them able to arrange these necessary formalities within a few weeks to build their own house. Hence, the idea of simplifying the municipality is to significantly encourage the municipality to issue construction conditions. These construction conditions... In this business, there will be no other party to the proceedings than the investor for those 70-metre-long houses to be designed so that they do not affect the neighbouring plots. This will greatly simplify the procedure of the municipality, there will be no sending notifications, no waiting for verses. It's gonna take a lot less than that. We also simplify in the case of WZ and limit such uncontrolled spread of buildings... We limit the area analysed in the urban analysis, that is a maximum of 200 m. Now we often have such a situation that these analyses are carried out in a much larger area. We want the municipality to have less work, so we limit this maximum area to 200 m, but we also cause that spatial disorder, which sometimes gets in the way of WZ in Poland... We limit it to a minimum. So you can't build a building in this procedure that's gonna be somewhere in the open field. It can only be built near another building or where the local plan provides for it, because it is not built anywhere on the basis of the WZ. But this gmina's competence in spatial planning is highly respected here. This bill doesn't cause any architectural disorder. I talked about these 21 days because we shorten this deadline for the release of WZ often for months or even a year, and there are cases that it takes longer, up to 3 weeks. It can be that it will take physically longer than 3 weeks, because if it is, for example. Natura 2000 area or some protected landscape area, then the municipality must request an opinion from the relevant authorities and this will, of course, extend the procedure a little bit, but in principle it will not take more than a few weeks. Then we want people to be able to design this building in a simple way, their new home. This is not in the bill, but the Chief Building Authority has already announced the competition and this competition, we hope, will soon be decided. Several dozen projects of such houses will be selected. 70 m2 buildings, up to 2 floors One that will be free of charge or one that will be free of charge from GUNB. And such a project, after the designer has adapted this project, will be able to join this application. This will also reduce costs on the investor's side. After the notification you will be able to immediately go to PINB and report the start of construction works. This is what we propose and we have a very good reason for it. I think you will also agree that designers, architects, are the best prepared professional group to design well, according to the regulations, according to the local development plan or according to the so-called. A woust, a design for a house like this. We don't want it to be unnecessary to wait another week for an old-fashioned official to check out this project. There's no need for that. The designer is responsible, already under the current regulations, for the design of the project to be designed according to the regulations. And he's insured for that. So that if it turned out that he did not design according to the local plan, he was responsible for it, professional and civil, or financial, also, for the investor. These investments will be controlled to the extent that they are now controlled by district building surveillance inspectors. So, in answer to this question, which I didn't pick up at the committee meeting yesterday, but the rapporteur asked it today, about what happens when it turns out that the house is more than 70 m taller... Well, if the house has more than 70 m of construction and such a project the investor will bring to the old town, then the investor will not be able to use this facilitated path. It's just that the starship will then apply the current mode. If more than 70 m is designed, the current mode will be used. He can object if something's wrong, and if he doesn't... [[Voice from the hall: But how is it being built, Minister?]] If someone builds a project that doesn't agree with the project, and unfortunately, situations like this happen right now... There's no difference here. You can't do that, but it happens that people build objects that aren't in line with the project. If someone's building something that doesn't fit the project, there are certain procedures for it. Nothing changes in this area. The law works, the building law is at the moment the sacred and district inspector of building supervision such investments are controlled. They are then reported for pickup and if... Here the law works the same, here there is no difference. As far as the need to set up a construction manager and have a construction log is concerned, in this respect, We're free to go, too. Some Poles have good skills, good education or experience in building. And if they do, they have the right to supervise and direct the construction of these regulations themselves. But it's not a duty. We're convinced that those investors who don't know anything about construction will just hire a construction manager. And here there's no obstacle to the manager hiring him. They will have a statement to sign if they resign from the manager, who will discharge all the responsibility they may take on their shoulders. I am convinced that Poles are smart enough that if they do not have the right qualifications, knowledge, experience, if they cannot manage construction, they will take the construction manager. Come forward, senators, to this freely. We want Poles to have freedom in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that's it. If there's any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u346	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such questions? Senator Jazłowicka, and then Senator Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u347	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you said that the government cared very much for the Polish family in their own home to raise their children happily. Here, in the Senate, there is not one person who does not want to fulfill such wishes to the Polish family. You have very good intentions, but as it happens in life, hell's intentions are paved. And that's the hell you're giving to Polish families. You say that today these families face administrative problems, lengthy procedures. In general, it is so in the world that if you want to build something well, it is this period of preparation that is the most important, because it allows you to make investments in an efficient, safe, responsible way. And you want this procedure done in a few weeks. You want our citizens to build houses without construction managers. And you're saying that this is the best solution, that it gives freedom to our citizens. It is a pity that in these categories of freedom you do not think about the rule of law or freedom of speech and freedom of the media. As you heard at the committee meeting, both experts and... [[Senator, it's been a minute. I'm asking you a question.]] As you heard at the committee meeting, both experts and self-governments expressed themselves very negatively, judging that you were building chaos and a nightmare after building this house. You only referred to a few of the elements indicated by Senator Bladder. Please respond to all the comments which the committee has made and which were also the reason for rejecting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u348	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u349	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! I'd have to take notes from the committee meeting because there were a lot of different comments. But luckily, I took those notes. I have them in front of me, so I'm going to talk about the comments that came up yesterday at the committee meeting, except for those that I've already discussed. President Olszewski, for example. he pointed out that we were limiting the possibility of spending the woust to 90 days for other investments. Well, Dear Senator, at present C.P.A. provides for the issue of the case within 30 days and, in particularly justified cases, the municipality may extend the procedure for another 30 days. And that's an instructional term from the c.p.a. that shouldn't theoretically be extended, these 60 days. We don't offer restrictions until 90 days later, if... [[You just said the opposite: a few weeks.]] Dear lady, you wanted me to address all the comments that were made at the committee meeting yesterday, so I am trying to address these comments. I've reminded you... [[But fair enough.]] ...Mr. President Olszewski and that's what I'm referring to. This comment did not concern a period of 21 days. I'm referring to the remark that was in the committee meeting yesterday. Those were a lot of comments, so I just, uh, answering your questions, I want one thing at a time... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Minister, I ask those points that have not yet been discussed.]] You know, the senator discussed yesterday's committee meeting. I have all the comments that were made yesterday. If you've noticed any comments that are of particular interest to you, perhaps you'd be more specific. Because I can tell them all from yesterday's committee meeting, but it's hard for me to tell you what kind of attention you're talking about, what part of... [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u350	Just don't have a dialogue because you're waiting for Senator Tyszkiewicz. [[No, no.]] So Senator Tyszkiewicz will ask the question, and then Senator Jazłowicka will ask again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u351	Minister, is refusing to give up your jersey binding? If the municipality refuses to release the woust for some reason, what happens then? That's my question. Is there gonna be a certain time? That's in a minute, isn't it? So...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u352	I'll give you an answer. When the commune refuses to release the suitcase... He's got the right to refuse his clothes, but of course he has to. This is duly justified, he must refuse to issue this briefcase in accordance with the law. If he legally refuses to issue his suitcase, then the investor has no choice, can't build, can't make a construction application, can't apply for a construction decision. It's obvious, natural. However, he may in theory challenge such a decision. I don't remember now... Oh, to the SKO in the first place. And then, if SKO doesn't agree with him, he can go to court.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u353	You're asking Senator Jazlowick a question. [[...two more.]] Oh, good.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u354	Will there be time to complete the construction? [[Voice from the room: Microphone!]] I'm sorry. Will there be time to complete the construction? Because I have houses in Greece, houses in Turkey, houses with wires sticking out. Is it time for somebody to... I would also like to remind you, Minister, that there will be no permits here. It's enough just to report it, isn't it? Someone's reporting and starting construction. Does he have time to finish this construction?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u355	Nothing changes around here. This is exactly the same procedure as in the previous notification procedure. [[But there's no normal reception. There's no building pickup here.]] [[Voice from the room: Statement...]] There's a normal response, you have to report it to PIBB. [[That's the first I've heard of it.]] Please analyze the bill in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u356	Gentlemen, we're not in committee. We're in session. You don't argue here, it's time. Asking questions. The question was correct because it was about those horrible wires that stood from Croatia to Egypt. People live there, but they don't finish construction because it brings some economic benefits. And that's about half the Mediterranean. That was the intention of the senator's question. I understand that the rules haven't changed in this matter, and they're the way they were. Yes? Did I get that right? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Yes.]] Thank you very much. Senator Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u357	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Because, as we can see, the Minister is not ready to answer us, I will ask for written answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u358	Thank you very much. Will the Minister undertake to respond in writing to these comments mentioned in the report by Senator Bladder? Because that's what it was about. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Of course. I can answer now, I can answer in writing, as you wish.]] Well, let's do it in writing. Thank you very much. I understand there's no more... Oh, Senator Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u359	Mr. Marshal, I just want to explain that this is not what the Minister said here, because the ending... I'm supposed to notify the completion according to the construction project and the dimensions I'm going to make. So, as an investor myself, I'm supposed to call building surveillance on this case. If this oversight comes to me, I don't know. That is the question that was also asked at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u360	Okay, we'll wait for the written answer. This is indeed one of the important questions, so that... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: I can answer.]] You're welcome, just for a short time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u361	Ladies and gentlemen, the receipt procedure is described in the Act. In accordance with this admission procedure in the event of indecision... Because when a manager is established, the manager does. In cases where it is not established, the investor does so. Any obligations normally incumbent on the construction manager must be fulfilled by the investor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u362	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Tyszkiewicz signed up for the floor, didn't he? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It is a pity that this debate takes place so late that there are so few people in the Chamber, because this is an important bill, a very important bill. To be honest, when I got my hands on her, when I found out that we were gonna be dealing with a bill like this, I was really excited. I thought it was cool, 'cause it's gonna be a lot easier to build a house. I've got a lot of land in the country, by the lake, almost 60 acres, so I thought I'd build myself a house like this without big permits, in a simplified procedure, maybe I'll do it, I don't know. But when I started reading this bill, I started digging into it as a self-government officer with a big internship, and I'm gonna be honest with you. The longer I read myself, the more questions were born, and the more scared I was. The first such very negative impression is that we local governments have been fighting for years for some sort of spatial order, for some kind of uniform structure. My city is not a big city, it currently has 40,000 inhabitants, because the number of inhabitants fell, there used to be about 50,000, but I had an urban architect in my town, I still have... I mean, I don't have one, I'm a senator today, not a president, but for all the years in a relatively small town there was a city architect who was mindful of spatial order. Most of the city we had planned and tried to make this city look decent. After reading into this law, you can see that we will lead to what we were terribly afraid of. That nightmares will arise, which we cannot control, and that order we have fought for for so many years will remain here, so to speak, crushed. I'll follow the example, Minister. There's a street in my town where the building is still German, the cottage next to the cottage, everything is nice, symmetrical. We were approached by people who wanted to build more houses in the back, behind these houses, even with building permits. We didn't give such consent because we thought it was important to have this spatial order, that we expect the city not to be chaos, that there shouldn't be what we see in Greece, Turkey or other cities, somewhere in less civilized countries, so that it wouldn't happen to us. I understand that once this bill is in place, we will no longer be able to stop it, which means... [[Voice from the room: We'll be able to.]] Are we gonna be able to say no? Well, I'm curious, we'll see, but okay. Minister, I also protest against something that you accept such a narrative that a bad official, e.g. He continued to make a decision or did something, and for some reason those deadlines were so long. It wasn't because the bad clerk was trying to spite someone. You were talking about building surveillance, which will play a very important role, because if these houses start building, then construction surveillance will have a huge job to do. Minister, do you know how the county building inspectors operate? Do you know how many people they have, how many jobs they have, how many jobs they have? They are not able to do their duty today, because today there are underfunded county offices and building surveillance inspectors. We're short of people, we're short of money, we're short of resources. I've dated these people many times. There's no money for printer paper. So talking about how these construction oversights are gonna play a very important role... So it's not because they don't want to work, it's because they have a lot of work to do, they're very burdened. If today we say it's an official's fault, I'm protesting something like that because it's not, and please don't do it, Minister. If these terms are shifted for some reason, it is not for malice, but for completely different reasons. The Minister said he'd finally be free. Minister, I am a liberal of flesh and blood, and I am in favour of maximum freedom, freedom, the more freedom, the better. But you know that such total freedom is already anarchy. And now the question is, are there limits to freedom or not? We say 70 meters is the limit of freedom, and why not 80 or 50 meters or 100 meters? Let's make 100 meters, this freedom will be even wider and it will be even easier to build more buildings. So here I completely disagree with you that this is a symptom of freedom. Unfortunately, I think there's more propaganda here than real reality. I feel a little sorry for you, I'll be honest with you. I sincerely feel for you because you seem like a decent man, and you got a frog to swallow, and you just have to swallow it, because there's a password, there's a need: build it up to power. We failed to build 1.5 million apartments, so now people will start building houses that can And now you say that whoever builds takes responsibility, full responsibility. Yes? What if he sells the house? 'Cause I think he might be able to sell. Yes or no? I mean, it's gonna be his property. Suppose he sells the house. Who will the buyer get a guarantee that this house isn't gonna collapse on his head? It's not like there's gonna be a surveillance engineer here. The project-- God, that's good news, I admit. If there are free projects to download, such as for gold, it will be a plus for you, Minister. That's the plus that someone can at least download a design for a gold cottage like this. Except he doesn't have to do it, he can build his own house. Yes? Okay. And now, like I said, I'm scared. It's about this spatial order that we've been fighting for so many years, cities like mine and many other cities, for many years we've been doing spatial planning, studios, etc., etc. Today, unfortunately, I have great concerns that this will not be the case. From what I've read, you've reduced from 10 acres to 5 acres of land where you can build a house like this. I started wondering if if anybody had a ten-inch plot today and there's already a house on this lot, he could put another 70-metre house next to it or not. I'm asking because he's gonna meet these criteria, it's gonna be 500 meters. But what kind of nightmare would it be if the architecture of such a city looked like, I'd rather not think. As I said, today the problem with housing, Minister, is largely the problem of areas for investment. They're missing them. And now, if cities like mine, I'm sorry again, but this example I'm going to use, where the density of the population, if you count the flood areas. And again my question: will it be possible to build on them or not? And count off the urban areas, that's about 2,500 people per square mile... cities like mine don't have anywhere else to go to build. And that's the problem. The question is how to make these areas more residential, especially in urban municipalities that do not actually have these areas. I also wrote down this problem: will it be possible to build a house without media? I'm asking because I didn't read in this bill that there would be an obligation to provide, for example. a way to get home and get the media into a house like this. Well, someone can get a deep well, I don't know, maybe do tests, they don't have to, and they can live in a house like this without putting it into service because there's no obligation. Again, Minister, I don't think there's anything wrong here. Is it an obligation to pick up the house or isn't it a duty to pick up the house? From what I've read, there isn't. It is, isn't it? It's a duty. Okay. I'd like to find a record like that. Where is he? Where? I'd appreciate the point. As I said before, I am afraid that these houses will be built in places where local governments today do not even come to mind that they can build there. I'll get back to the so-called one. Wrenches in 21 days. Minister, why are these terms longer? I'll go back to the beginning of my speech again. That's because the officials are swamped with paperwork. The WZ decision in 21 days is unrealistic. I have the opinion of the Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts, I will not quote, I do not know if you have received this opinion, I have the opinion of the Association of Municipalities of Lubuskie Voivodeship, my association, to which I have had the privilege of leading for nearly 10 years. These opinions are devastating to this law, or at least they have great doubts in them. Maybe you're trying too fast on this bill, maybe you had to work on it a little longer. As far as I can tell, I've got it right here. also checked That the differences in the contested draft law amending the Construction Law... It is very different from the one consulted. The bill has changed. Again, the question is: does he comply with the principles of correct legislation? Was he really consulted? Once again, the opinion of local authorities is devastating for this project. [[Mr. Senator, 10 minutes.]] Okay. Good. I'm done. So the question is: do I have a plot of 60 acres, in the countryside, a nice house I can design myself and build it myself? Even if I did, I'd rather take the designer. I'll do it. But will the Poles do that? I have doubts about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u364	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Senators Aleksander Szwed, Viktor Durlak, Beata Małecka-Libera, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Mariusz Gromko, Janusz Gromek, Ryszard Świlski, Robert Mamątow, Benjamin Godyla submitted the minutes of the speech. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Can I refer?]] Excuse me? I mean, there were no legislative proposals, because the committee's motion was for rejection... [[Voice from the room: It's about to...]] No, it was... It was a debate, Minister. You made a commitment to answer in writing, and I think that's enough. But the representatives of the ministry can... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: I will say briefly, really.]] Well, there you go. We're gonna measure time like everyone else.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u365	Thank you so much for letting me speak, Mr. Marshal. That was an interesting statement, which is why I really wanted to address her here. Mr. Senator, you got a cut in the Mazury, 60 acres... [[Not in Mazury, in Lubusek.]] In Lubusek, I'm sorry. I heard wrong. You have this plot, 60 acres. If there's a local zoning plan for this plot... If it were and made it possible for you to build a house, you could plan a building like this. If there isn't, and you'd like to use this bill, there's got to be another building within a 200-metre radius of this plot so that the municipality can determine the construction conditions. If you get construction conditions for this plot... And, of course, this plot could be, let's say, flooded. If it is in a protected area in some way, a type of protected landscape area, etc., then the municipality will have to ask the relevant authorities for an opinion on this matter, to agree on these conditions of construction. If you finally get those terms... There are 21 days for this, it may take longer if there are arrangements on the way. So, if you get these conditions, you can build what the municipality determines under these conditions. The competence of the municipality in this respect will be maintained. That's what you were talking about when you were a self-government officer, building in your town, house by house, everything's nice. Can somebody build something in the back? We do not deprive the municipalities of this competence of spatial governance and planning. It's the town that decides... [[He can say no.]] It is the municipality that decides in the local development plan or under construction conditions whether it is possible to build a house in the back or not. If the municipality determines that a construction site of 1,000 m can only have one building, it will not be possible. We do not regulate this by building law. This is the competence of the municipality. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're talking about such a narrative that a bad clerk... We don't use that kind of narration. We say the clerk now has a lot of work to do under construction conditions. Sending all correspondence, waiting for the so-called. verses, even defining an area, one way or the other... There's really a lot of different tasks. We here simplify the administrative procedure as much as possible to perform at the so-called. The woust, because we want the clerk to... We know that the clerk has a lot of work to do, which is why we shorten it as much as possible, reduce the amount of work, make it easier, apply the simplified procedure of the c.p.a. All these things I've been talking about are so that the clerk can make it through these 21 days. We don't say that... We know that, according to the procedure so far, this would not be possible in 21 days, so we simplify it. The point is to make it possible in 21 days. You said about PINBs that there's a problem... I hope so. I think it's already decided. That next year in the PINBs will be quite a raise. I'm very happy for you because PINBs actually need reinforcement. Up to a 70-metre-long house, you must have a designer's design. If you want to build this single-family house, standing 70 m, up to a 2-storey building, then you must have a design made by the designer. Like I said, you can pull him off GUNB's side for a dollar. But you have to get the designer to adapt anyway. Either the designer has to design this house for you. There's no other way. [[But will it be received or will it not be received?]] It'll be over. [[Who's gonna do this pickup? I didn't read it.]] Sir, all the laws that are in building law must be read together. You've been given a bill that's a change. When we introduce it, we will adopt it, the uniform text of the law will be published, and in this single text you will have all the requirements so far, all the law. The other elements of the building law work together, so as far as access roads and the media are concerned, all those provisions that function will continue to function, we are not changing anything in this regard. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I hope that I have answered all the points mentioned by your senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u366	Thank you very much, Minister. Indeed, the Minister seems to have good intentions. But that's how it's gonna work out in life. Well, the senators have a lot of doubts. The vote will take place at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage, drawn up at Strasbourg on 8 November 2001. The text of the Act is contained in print No 501, and the Commission's reports In the forms Nos 501 A and 501 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alexander Swede, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u367	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union a report on the Act on the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage, drawn up in Strasbourg on 8 November 2001, on which the committee was sitting at its 80th second meeting on 6 October 2001. The aim of the Act is to agree to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage. The purpose of the Convention, as enshrined in its Article. 1, is to ensure the protection of the European audiovisual heritage and its recognition both as an art form and as a record of the past, by collecting, preserving and making available film material for cultural, scientific and research purposes in the public interest. The essential obligations imposed by the Convention are the introduction of a statutory obligation to collect and store film material produced or co-produced in the territory of the State of the Party. It's an article that talks about it. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the and an indication of one or more bodies whose task will be to perform the functions of the national archive, as stated in the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 convention... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Minister, gentlemen... the senators, the minister, either I invite you to cocksuckers, or I ask for silence.]] The obligation to set up state archiving bodies is complemented by the need for the State Party to implement the provisions which allow the public authority to carry out supervision in practice on the activities of the established archive, says the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 of the Convention and require the Authority to provide the technical and financial means necessary to carry out the archival activities. As highlighted in part in the explanatory memorandum, but also in the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office, in the Polish legal system the obligations imposed by the Convention are already fulfilled, in particular on the basis of the provisions of the Act of 30 June 2005 on cinematography. On the other hand, the duties of the archiving body are full of the National Film Archives and Audiovisual Institute. The explanatory memorandum of the bill states that the adoption of the Convention into the Polish legal order will promote the harmonisation of standards for the transmission and storage of audiovisual works, including cinematographic works, also at international level. The binding of the Republic of Poland to the Convention will allow to supplement accepted international agreements on the protection of audiovisual heritage. In addition, it has been pointed out that ratification of the Convention will not result in the need to amend the existing rules as well as the financial implications for the State budget. The Convention concerns matters governed by the Law and is therefore subject to ratification with the prior consent of the Act, in accordance with Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 5 of the Constitution. The Act is to enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. In favour of the bill, 432 Members voted against, 1 against, 10 abstentions. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, at its eighty-second meeting on 6 October this year, following the presentation by the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Paweł Jabłoński, without votes in the discussion, adopted the draft ratification act unanimously. Therefore, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I request the adoption of the Act on the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage, drawn up in Strasbourg on 8 November 2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u368	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Hamerski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u369	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media. Since my previous speaker presented to you, the High House, both the objective and the subject of the Act, I would just like to say that the Committee on Culture and Media has unanimously adopted this Act on the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage, drawn up in Strasbourg on 8 November 2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u370	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Culture, National Heritage and Sport were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. At this point I would like to welcome representatives of the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport, Minister Jarosław Sellin, and Minister Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? If there's no need... Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. For the record, the senators Alexander Swed and Mariusz Gromko made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. As there were no legislative proposals, I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u371	The meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on the examination of the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws will take place tomorrow at 8.15 in Room 182. A meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the examination of the applications submitted to the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code and certain other laws will take place tomorrow at 8.00 in room 217. The joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of requests submitted at the 30th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Trade Reduction on Sundays and holidays and on some other days will take place tomorrow at 8.30 in room 217. The joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure on the examination of requests submitted at the 30th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws will also take place tomorrow at 8.00 in room 176. The joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the examination of requests submitted at the 30th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units and some other laws will also take place tomorrow at 8.10 in room 176. And one last announcement. A joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of applications submitted at the 30th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Foreigners and some other laws will also take place tomorrow at 8.30 in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-07-senat-31-1.u372	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that tomorrow's session will begin at 9 a.m. from the last point, i.e. information by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the control in the Justice Fund. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 23 minutes 21]]
