ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u1	Mr. Marshal! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to Energy, Climate and State Assets together with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs - immediately after the end of the vote in the plenary room, approximately 3 p.m. 13, - Infrastructure - immediately after the end of the vote in the plenary room, around 3 p.m. 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u2	Thank you very much. We will now proceed with the quorum. Please press any button to confirm your presence at the meeting. Mr. Marshal, will these clowns sit without masks... Mr. Marshal, I don't think the pandemic is over yet. I'd like a mask on, please. High Seym! I kindly ask Members who are in the Chamber without masks to wear masks. Get out of here! Except the Confederation. Marshal's Guard... No, it doesn't mean anything. You're infecting others. Once again, I ask Members who are in the Chamber without masks to put on masks urgently. Under the strictest rule of exclusion from the proceedings. Thank you. Mr President, please do not approach our employees without a mask. Please, sir. What, and we're worse, can we? He's sitting right here. Mr. Marshal, he's sitting right here. He's not in jail anymore. He's gonna sit down or he's gonna sit down. But not alone. I'm sure Mr. Marshal will figure it out. Mr. Marshal, can you solve this case? If he wasn't a potential coalitionist, he'd react. 441 Members voted. So there are so many people present at the moment, during our procession. Objection. And why are you objecting? I would like to inform you that the Senate has accepted without any amendments to the bill: - on the amendment of the law - Bank law and certain other laws, - amending the Road Transport Act, - amending the Law amending the Law - Hunting Law and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the law - Educational law and certain other laws. As a result, the agenda items 24, 28, 32 and 33 have become pointless. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the persecution of Poles in Belarus, print No 1060. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, under the authority of the Marshals of the Sejm, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Mr. Marshal, objection. There's an objection. But that's everyone... The committee responsible submitted a report on the parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of Father Franciszek Blaclinicki on the 100th anniversary of his birth, print no. 1038. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, under the authority of the Marshals of the Sejm, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act and certain other laws, - amending the Rail Transport Act, - amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 1050, 1055 and 1054 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, under the authority of the Marshals of the Sejm, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - to amend the Supreme Court Act, - on the amendment of the law - Customs law and certain other laws, - amending the excise duty law and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the law - Road traffic law and certain other laws, - amending the Law on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021, - amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons and certain other laws, - amending the Act on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans. The reports shall, respectively, be in prints 1053, 1049, 1051, 1056, 1052, 1058 and 1059. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, under the authority of the Marshals of the Sejm, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: a draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the persecution of Poles in Belarus (print No 1060). In view of the opposition raised to the application of the Article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, we shall decide this in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to the application of the Article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, will press the button. Mr. Marshal, who's against and who's holding back. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 388, against -51, holding down 6. The Sejm accepted the offer. I'm gonna ask you to stand up now. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the persecution of Poles in Belarus. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland objects to the brutal campaign of repression launched by the Belarusian authorities against the citizens of Belarus of the Polish nationalities wishing to conduct cultural and educational activities and nurture national traditions. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland opposes insulting all standards of democratic interference in the functioning of the organization of the Polish minority, and especially the Polish Union in Belarus. The actions of the Belarusian authorities are flagrantly contrary to Belarus' international obligations to protect national minorities and to the bilateral Polish-Belarusian commitments to protect the Polish minority. Breaking the rights of national minorities is a matter on which the public, both Polish and international, is particularly sensitive. The actions of the Belarusian authorities lead to the escalation of tensions and the deepening of the self-insulation of this country in the international arena and to the greatest extent hinder the return to normal contacts with neighbouring Poland. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland solidaritys with the detained and repressed people of Belarus: Andżelika Borys, Andrzej Poczobut, Irena Biernacka, Maria Tiszkowska, Anna Paniszewa and other people under persecution - teachers, journalists, social activists. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland demands their release and cessation of any repression against them as soon as possible and calls on the international community to respond jointly and decisively to the unlawful actions of the Belarusian authorities. I propose that the Sejm adopt a resolution on the persecution of Poles in Belarus. [[Applause]] Thank you. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the persecution of Poles in Belarus. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of Father Franciszek Blaclinicki on the 100th anniversary of his birth (prints no. 1032 and 1038). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Culture and Media of the Parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of Father Franciszek Blaclinicki on the 100th anniversary of his birthday, 1032 and 1038 prints. The Marshal of the Sejm received a parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of Father Franciszek Blaclinicki from the members of the Law and Justice Club with a Member of the applicant Tomasz Romankowski. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering this draft resolution at its meeting on 26 March 2021, recommends that the High Sejm adopt this resolution. I have the honour to present the content of the draft resolution. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the commemoration of Father Franciszek Blaclinicki on the 100th anniversary of his birth. On 24 March 1921 in Rybnik was born Franciszek Blaclicki, Polish Boy Scout, Catholic priest, prisoners of German concentration camps, organizer of the Crusade of Abstinence... But what is it? ...founder of the Movement of Light-Life and the Christian Service for the Liberation of Nations, author of about 100 publications, lecturer of the Catholic University of Lublin. In September 1939, he volunteered to fight German aggression. He participated in the conspiracy, for which he was arrested and spent time in prison and German concentration camps. This is the committee's report. In 1942, he was sentenced to death for conspiracy against the Third Reich, which was later converted into 10 years in prison. Waiting on death row to execute his sentence, he was converted. It's a report. After the war, he joined a seminary in Katowice and was ordained priestly in 1950. From then on, Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki was closely monitored by the security authorities of the Polish People's Republic. Since 1957 he has led the Crusade of Abstinence - a program of anti-alcoholic moral renewal, based on the form of spirituality of St. Father of Maximilian Kolbe. After 3 years, the communist authorities eliminated the crusade and the priest was arrested for several months. Another pastoral work of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki was the creation of an oasis movement, later called the Light-Life Movement, since 1963. The aim of the movement was to raise mature Christians of every age and state and to realize the vision of the Community Church. The dynamic development of the oasis movement caused the entire activity of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki has been the subject of an operational study by a special group of the Department IV of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In December 1981 Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki went to Rome and at that time martial law was introduced in Poland. The following year he settled in the Polish Marianum Centre in Carlsberg in the Federal Republic of Germany and established the International Centre for the Evangelization of Light-Life. He also founded the Christian Service for the Liberation of Nations, whose aim was to liberate Central and Eastern Europe from communism. It organized conferences, the Marches of the Liberation of Nations and conducted publishing activities. The Security Service, considering the job of a priest as a threat, sent its agents to take over the association and put out its activities. Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki died suddenly on February 27, 1987 in Carlsberg. He was buried in Kościenko on the Danube. To this day, the Institute of National Remembrance is investigating because there is a suspicion that the Communist agent contributed to his death. In 1995 the beatification process of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki. In October 2015, Pope Francis signed a decree about heroic virtues. On the 100th anniversary of the birth of Father Franciszek Blaclinicki, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, appreciating his merits for the Polish people, contributing to the promotion of moral virtues and resistance against communism, pays tribute to this great man and honors his memory. [[Applause]] Bravo! Bravo! Fascism.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u4	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? I'm opening a discussion. Mr Paweł Kowal, Civic Platform. You're welcome. Why such a order, Marshal? Posts are after the resolution? Two minutes. There's no resolution, it's the committee's report.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u5	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Now is the time for us to discuss the committee's report and say a few more things that should be said because of the attitude and merits of Franciszek Blaclinicki, a Catholic priest, a legend of the fight against the German occupation, a legend of the fight against communism, a man who gave a whole life of courage. And those of you who are now thinking are wondering why we are going to vote on this resolution today, I would like to convince you this way. He was a brave man who began the defensive war in 1939 as a volunteer who was sentenced by Nazi Germany to death penalty, spent a long time in prison, miraculously avoided it and became a reference point for many noble people of that era, especially for those fighting for Silesian Polishness. It was a man who, in the post-war period, we would say today, was one of the strongholds of what is now called civil society. He built a great anti-alcoholic movement, joined the fight against one of the greatest plagues of that era, sensing what is most important to society. The Movement of Light-Life, ladies and gentlemen, was one of the largest independent organizations shaping young generations in the spirit of patriotism, in the spirit of responsibility for the community. The Movement of Light-Life has become one of the pillars of later Solidarity, because it has raised generations of people involved in state affairs, in matters of common good. Ladies and gentlemen, also during the period of the "Solidarity" Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki remained indifferent. All his activities in Carlsberg, all his activities in emigration, were support for the Solidarity, in particular the Solidarity of Lower Silesia, that was support through publishing houses, the organisation of a conference (the bell) and the organisation of meetings. To the very end, Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki witnessed how a patriot should behave, was persecuted until the end, and today - as a historian I can say - many indicate that he was also murdered by the Security Service. These are the reasons why we want to celebrate this great man today, as we worship others, Fr. Jan Zieja and many other consecrated ones, especially in our present times giving a good testimony to the social attitude and patriotic Catholic priests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u6	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Senyshin, the Left Club, has the floor. We've got a call. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u7	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left Club is opposed to the idolatrous commemoration of another representative of the clergy... [[Applause]] Bravo! ...this time on the pretext of his 100th anniversary. This year is the Year of Cardinal Wyszyński... There's no shame. ...the previous year was John Paul's Year II. Ubecka... The result is the growing impudence and patronage of the Catholic Church in Poland. That's disgusting. Even now, during the pandemic, the episcopate does not cooperate with the government, does not agree to closing churches, demands special privileges for itself at the expense of the life and health of Poles. Indeed, Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki was born 100 years ago, in 1921, as well as not less well-deserved for Poland Michalin Wisłock, Julia Hartwig or Andrzej Munk. In turn 100 years ago the deceased Gabriel Zapolska, Teresa Ciszkiewiczow, Maria Antonina Czaplicka, and the Sejm only wants to worship Blaclinicki. It's another shooting act... That's not true. ...made in a quiet order of the Catholic Church... Don't lie to me. But you can't afford to say that, Suski, just scream? ...who thus tries to save the remnants of rightfully lost authority. It is high time to separate the Church from the state, and the Sejm from the whispers of the episcopate. Poland must be a secular state, because only this will ensure equal treatment of all citizens. The Left Club calls on the Sejm to end its clericism in memory worship and calls for the rejection of this completely unnecessary and socially not only unjustified but even harmful resolution. Let us not unnecessarily prolong the agony of the Catholic Church. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] Sit down! Bravo! What are you clapping? Down with the commune!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u8	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u9	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You can see that the figure of Fr. To this day, Blaclinicki is very emotional. It was a man who did not submit to anyone - neither the hierarchical authority of the church nor the system at that time. Let's look at the beginning of his life: Boy Scouts, the first actions at the time of World War II, the fact that he was one of the first to enter Auschwitz, the fact that he did not accept confirmation before World War II. What a great transformation in this man occurred as a result of these tragic events, the stay in Auschwitz. The preacher himself was not the best, the records speak of it, often even his sermons were called boring, but he did something worthy of the highest appreciation. The Crusade of Abstinence, the Movement of Light-Life, the Christian Service for the Liberation of Nations - these are his works, works that did not like both the church hierarchs, which he often criticized and the authorities. The most mysterious thing today is the circumstances of his death. I hope that someday they will be finally explained. This man deserves to be recognized, by heart. The testimony of his life was really good for Poland. Those who mention his life, his accomplishments also speak of it many times. Therefore (The bell) as a club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party we will vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u10	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Father Franciszek Blaclinicki is a great character, heroic character, hero, defender of Poland in 1939, volunteer, volunteer in the defence war. Then, after 1945, one of the most well-deserved people in Poland when it comes to promoting sobriety as regards the moral renewal of the nation. A very well-deserved person when it comes to the fight for freedom, the rights of the nation, civil rights, against the communist dictatorship. Surveillanced by esbec and possibly murdered by esbec in 1987 in Germany. This is the character. This is the figure against which the Left votes today. This is the figure against which the third generation of UB, present today in the Seym, speaks and the voice of Joanna Senyshin attacks this heroic figure. [[Applause]] This is the reality today in Parliament of the Republic of Poland. Bravo! Bravo, again! This, this voice of Senyshin today is a disgusting, despicable manipulation and it must be made clear that we do not need a separation of the Church from the State in Poland, because it is because the Church is itself and you are yourselves. Today in Poland we need a chapter of the Left from the State, once and for all. [[Applause]] And you're the third generation...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u12	The discussion is closed. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1038, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? And we know everything. Comics. This commune will never come out of you. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Look in your own ranks. Mr Senyshin's statement is the most despicable... But Kaczyński's president has some standing in one line. How are the paedophiles? Members, because I'm going to have to announce a recess. This is no place for discussion. Perhaps to ask Mr Braun to leave. You apologize for everything... A woman's boxer. Madam, I ask you very much to control your emotions. I also ask Mr Nitras to calm down. Some kind of pill for... I'm trying. Mr. Marshal on pastilles has more experience than I do. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's ridiculous. I'm glad. Anything else on the subject? Thank you. I kindly inform you that the Minister is laughing. 440 Members voted. For - 376, against - 45, halted 19. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the commemoration of Father Franciszek Blaclinicki on the 100th anniversary of his birth. [[Applause]] We now have formal requests to proceed. It's a good thing it's not for last. Please, Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Coalition. Two minutes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm applying for a recess so that the Deputy Prime Minister of Security can issue a state report. Today I want to ask publicly: Where is Jarosław Kaczyński, Deputy Prime Minister for Security Affairs? What was the Deputy Prime Minister doing in the last month? Oddly enough, since Mr. Daniel Obajtek's case came up, Prime Minister Kaczyński has disappeared from sight. He's gone underground. Cut it out, fool. ... Platforms. Today, the Deputy Prime Minister for Security is responsible for state security. He's the one who's under all the most important force resorts today. What's his role today? Where is Prime Minister Kaczyński today? ABW. They are detrimental to the state. All I see is an empty chair. I see that Prime Minister Kaczyński has not spoken in public for a month. The situation in Polish hospitals is absolutely tragic. There are dramatic signals from all over Poland about the lack of hospital facilities. Ambulances bounce from hospitals, driving patients a few hundred kilometers. What's the state like today? The state looks just like this chair. This is an empty place that should be occupied, and today, Prime Minister Morawiecki should be sitting here. The Polish Sejm today expects full information on this matter... Poles. ...because there's no more important issue today than fighting the epidemic. You guys are good at finding enemies. You're looking for enemies on the side of the European Union... What happened two months ago? ...you're looking for enemies on the opposition side, recently on the government side, but when it comes to the fact that all this power can be used to fight the coronavirus, you're gone, you're going underground. [[Applause]] We're fighting the coronavirus, not talking like you. We're not looking for riots. And the state is falling apart in front of us. And that is the great drama of this situation today that when you can use this power, when you can fight the epidemic in our country, you just don't exist because you abdicated because you're playing games, you're covering for Obietka, you're fighting for stools in your own government. Shame on you and get to work! [[Applause]] Disgraceful!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u14	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club. This conclusion, of course, was informal. The Member is aware of this. It's a break. You didn't file a request for a recess. I called it in. He called it in. Has he filed for a recess? Then we'll be voting right now. Too many pastilles. He called it in, called it in. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, we have a very difficult situation with regard to the fight against pandemics, and a difficult situation with regard to health protection. But in parallel, work is being done on the National Plan for Reconstruction. It is a very important document for the future of Poland and for the future of Poles and Poles. It is a document which, in its assumptions, is to divide the sum of 260 billion euros into actions of the Polish government, Polish entrepreneurs, Polish local governments, Polish institutions after the pandemic. It is a document that is currently being consulted with various organisations, with different communities and with different actors. The Left Club made comments to this document yesterday. We therefore request that the proceedings of the Sejm of the Republic be postponed until 6 April in order to give the possibility for the Prime Minister and the Polish Government to present the state of play on this document, to present the conclusions which have come from the various institutions, the conclusions which have emerged during the consultation to present proposals for amendments to the document which at this point is unacceptable. For example, due to the fact that there is no participation of the local government in the distribution of funds from the National Reconstruction Plan. This is a very important document, so I'll remind you... I would ask your marshal to fill in the agenda for the vote on our appeal so that this document can be adopted by the Polish Parliament, so that the law on this matter can be voted here in the Polish Parliament, because we all have to make decisions on this matter. This is a document whereby financial resources will be allocated until 2026. There must be a consensus between the Polish Parliament and everyone on this matter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] political forces. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u16	Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Before the National Plan for Reconstruction, it is primarily about the fundamental issue, the most important issue that the Sejm will deal with during this term of office. The most important one, because it concerns sovereignty in its fundamental dimension - the fiscal dimension. Today we have to answer the question and it will be a fundamental vote in this Sejm: Who is in favour of Polish sovereignty, and who is in favour of tax law, the law of debt collection wants to cede to Brussels? Who in this parliament, after the sale of energy, was sold mining when the Moravian government capitulated on our mining and energy industries, raises his hand to deprive Poland of fiscal sovereignty? This is a fundamental matter. We expect, Mr Marshal, that the deadline for this debate will be well in advance, that this will be a large parliamentary debate and that we will make this decision as a parliament - let us not take it - by a majority of 2/3 votes. It is a matter of sovereignty, independence of Poland and will weigh not for years, but decades. That's what we demand, that's what we demand. We demand that the government, which often under the patriotic and independence phrase goes to elections, clearly state what it wants - whether it confirms this capitulation that Mateusz Morawiecki carried out, concluded last year in Brussels. We demand [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not like you're gonna get over yourself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u18	Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u19	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I submit a formal request for a change in the manner of conducting the discussion during the 27th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the convening of the Convention of Seniors in order to add a point in which we will jointly adopt a resolution of the Sejm calling on the President of the Council of Ministers to introduce a natural disaster. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not gonna shout or use big words. But so that we can understand. Since we have an epidemic, more than 50 thousand cities have already disappeared from the map of Poland. This is the balance sheet of patients with COVID, that's the balance waiting in ambulances, in queues to hospitals, that's the balance of failure of this government. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, entrepreneurs cannot claim compensation. As a government, you plan to introduce greater restrictions, and you have no legal basis for this. You're threatening to ban us from moving against the constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of an emergency state - Poland 2050 Szymon Hołowni says this for a long time - the state of the natural disaster is the only solution at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u20	Thank you. This is an informal proposal because there is no discussion today. On the other hand, a formal request for interruption was submitted. I will now put him to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For - 208, against - 227, 6 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We also have a formal request for adjournment. I will also put this proposal to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 201, against - 231, 8 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Anti-Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and some other laws (Prints Nos 1040 and 1050). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee. There isn't. There's no report? There it is. Mr President, the committee's report... He's thinking about it. Unprepared. They're setting up a position right now. Was there a committee meeting? Is there a committee position on this? They're here. You're welcome, sir. I'd give you a downside, Marshal, he's unprepared. Mr. Marshal, there's no report, there's no vote. There's a report, calm down. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting, the Public Finance Commission discussed the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act and some other laws. All amendments were discussed in a long discussion. I recommend the High House to adopt the position of the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Insufficient, please sit down. But what? What's it like?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u22	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In Amendment 1. The Senate proposes a new wording of point 18 in Article. 2 (2) 1 the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For - 12, against -432, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 2, 3 and 4. The Senate proposes an editorial and legislative change. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 2 to 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. No one was against - 446, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 5. The Senate proposes to add an article in the Real Estate Management Act. 198f. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. For - 11, against - 433, holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Law on Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Customs Law and certain other laws (prints 1039 and 1049). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Customs Law and certain other laws, print No 1039. Following the resolution of the Senate by the Marshal of the Sejm to the Committee on Public Finance on 29 March this year, the committee considered all the amendments at its meeting on 29 March and all the nine amendments of the Senate were adopted by the committee, except that, when voting, the committee proposes and proposes a total vote on amendments: 1 and 9, 4 and 6 and 5 and 7. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u24	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 4. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the act - Customs law. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes amendments to the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Point 1 (3) (a) a and b and to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Point 2 (3). Amendment 9 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 9 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. No one was against - 442, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 79 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 2. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. No one was in favor, 447 against, holding off on one. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 80 The Senate proposes to add paragraph. 3a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House will want to press the button against the 3rd amendment. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. No one was for, 443 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 80 (1) (b) and (c) of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 7 The Senate proposes an editorial change. Amendment 6 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 4 and 6, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. No one was in favor, no one held back, 442 was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 37q of the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund The Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. Point 1 (2) and the introductions to the calculation in paragraph 2. Two and three. Amendment 7 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 5 and 7, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. 1 for, 443 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 8th amendment to the article. 15 Act on Gambling The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph. 1b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. No one was in favor of - 439, 1 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Customs Law and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws (prints No 1041 and 1051). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u25	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Senate has tabled 25 amendments to the Act amending the excise duty Act and certain other laws. The Committee on Public Finance yesterday considered all the amendments and recommended amendment 2 accept, the remaining amendments reject. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u26	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 1 Senate in point 3 (a) b proposes that paragraph be deleted. 5. Amendment 17 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 17 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. For - 218, against - 212, holding 12. In the absence of an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 1 Senate in point 9 (a) d proposes an amendment to the paragraph. 7. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. For -3, against -430, holding off on 11. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. In paragraph 35, the Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. Point 1a 1. Amendments 4, 5 and 6 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3, 4, 5 and 6, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. For - 225, against - 221, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 7th amendment to the article. 1 Senate in point 41 (a) e proposes an amendment to the paragraph. 3f. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. For - 218, against - 220, holding off on 11. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 1 The Senate in point 46 proposes amendments to Article. 113a. This amendment is combined with the 9th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 8 and 9 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Anyone can cancel... Then why vote? But we didn't say anything to you at all. 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For - 226, against - 212, the 9. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 10th amendment to the article. 1 The Senate in point 57 proposes an amendment to Article. Article 163c (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1. This amendment is linked to the 21st amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 10 and 21 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. The absolute majority is 226. For - 230, against - 212, the 9. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In Amendment 11, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 2. Amendments 12, 13, 16, 19 and 25 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 11, 12, 13, 16, 19 and 25 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. For - 272, against - 168, the 9. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 14th amendment to the article. 16 The Senate proposes amendments to point 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 14th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For - 229, against - 209, the 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 17 The Senate proposes to amend point 2. Amendments 20, 22, 23 and 24 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 15, 20, 22, 23 and 24 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. The absolute majority is 226. For - 232, against -210, the 9. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 18th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 28a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment? Who's against it? Aye. Objection. Mr. Waldek, you're not afraid. Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. The absolute majority is 226. Za-210, against- 239, holding off on two. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Applause]] Bravo. Mr. Waldek... I'm still gonna correct vote 55 here. We misinterpreted it. There was 225 for, and the absolute majority was 225. So the amendments were rejected. The Senate therefore rejected amendments 3 to 6. Sejm. But we're the Seym, not the Senate. Sejm, of course: The Sejm rejected the amendments from 3. to 6. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the amendment of the excise duty law and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court (Prints 1047 and 1053). Roger that. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal... I ask Mr Mark Ast to submit a report to the committee. Ask for a break. Mr. Marshal, the issue is serious... It's gonna be a minute, okay? Let him perform...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court, in print No 1047 and 1053. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights considered the Senate resolution on 29 March this year. The Commission recommends rejecting Amendments 1 and 3 while Amendment 2 recommends accepting. At the same time, amendments 1 and 3 must be voted together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u28	Thank you, sir. May I? You're welcome. Mr. Marshal, I think... A formal conclusion or...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u29	Yes. I would like to make a formal request for a five-minute break and ask your marshal to convene the Convention because it seems to me that there has been a misunderstanding or misinterpretation in your last statement, and not only as regards the Sejm and the Senate, but as regards the interpretation of the vote, because you said that the absolute majority - 225, and that there was 225, therefore the Sejm rejected. Yes. I think this is where it happened... That is the interpretation of the Sejm Chancellery. Nothing happened. I know, we only have doubts, Mr. Marshal, because you say we reject the amendment, and we have doubts about the outcome of this vote. But that was to the previous corrections correction. But let me... Please don't disturb me. If you have no doubt, let us have it and settle it at the Convention meeting. I think it's just a few minutes for all of us. It'll be good for us, we'll clear this up. We're gonna vote again anyway.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u30	At the request of the Platform Club, the Civic Coalition, I declare a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 33 hrs. 11 min 39]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 23 of the agenda. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 and 2. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Supreme Court Act. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes to delete the changes from 1 to 5 and from 7 to 9. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 3 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For - 231, against - 207, with a hold of 9. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. The 115th Law of the amended Senate proposes an amendment to § 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. The absolute majority is 226. For - 30, against - 326, stopped 94. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws (prints No 1044 and 1056). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present a report by the Committee on Infrastructure relating to the amendments tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the Road Traffic Law and certain other laws. This morning, the committee was discussing the Senate's amendments. After careful analysis, he recommends to the High Sejm that the following amendments be rejected: 1., 2., 3., 4., 7. and 8. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u32	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 3. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act - Traffic Law. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. Article 15a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3, Article Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 and Article 6 of Regulation (EU) No This amendment is combined with the 4th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. For - 235, against - 175, with a hold of 39. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 33a The Senate proposes to add paragraph. 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. The absolute majority is 226. For - 231, against - 217, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 130aaa. This amendment is combined with the 7th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3 and 7 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. The absolute majority is 226. For-- 233, against-- 216, 1 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th Amendment to the Public Road Act, the Senate proposes to add an article. 20aa. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. 1 was in favor, 1 held back, 447 was against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 4 of the Law amending the Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. No one was in favour, 445 was against, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. The 6th Law amending the Senate proposes to replace the words "30 days" with "60 days." The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. The absolute majority is 226. For - 239, against -210, 1 holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Committee on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport (Prints 1043 and 1055). I would like to ask Mrs Agata Wojtyszek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u33	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport, print no. 1043. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 29 March 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. The Committee on Infrastructure, after considering this resolution today, proposes that all amendments be accepted. There's four of them. So I ask you to accept these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u34	Thank you very much. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. The 25th Railway Transport Act of the Senate proposes inter alia. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 adding point 4. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. In - 1, against - 447, 1 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 4 and 6 The Senate proposes to amend the entry into force of the transitional provisions. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. Two votes against, 444, one abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate proposes to supplement the reference. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. The absolute majority is 226. Za - 1 Member, against - 448, abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Point 15 (1) of the Senate proposes to amend the entry into force of the provision. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For - 1 Member, against - 446, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this end, we have concluded the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Rail Transport Act. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the National census of Population and Housing in 2021 (prints 1045 and 1052). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I am pleased to submit a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021 from print No 1045. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 29 March 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, having considered this resolution at its meeting on 29 March 2021, asks the High Sejm to approve the Senate amendments set out in points 1, 2, 3 and 4. I would like to point out that we will have a vote from paragraph 2 to point 4 together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u36	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 and 2. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act on the National Population and Housing census in 2021. In Amendment 1. to Article. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Senate proposes to maintain the existing wording of the introduction into the calculation. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. Za - 1 Member against - 439, 5 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 2. to Article. 41 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 3. Amendments 3 and 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 2 to 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For - 1 Member against - 438, 7. The Sejm accepted the amendments. At this we concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on the National census of Population and Housing in 2021. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and on certain other laws (prints No 1042 and 1054). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry considered the amendments tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments and some other laws. High Izbo! The Committee on the Environment proposes and recommends that the High House reject Amendments 1, 4, 7 and 9 to 11 which should be voted on together, reject Amendment 2, reject Amendment 3, adopt Amendments 5 and 8, which should be voted on together, and reject Amendment 6. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u38	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 5. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and certain other laws. In the first amendment to Article. 72 The Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 2. 6. Amendments 4, 7 and 9 to 11 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 4, 7 and from 9 to 11 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. For - 241, against - 204, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 72 The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph. 6a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. The absolute majority is 227. For - 244, against - 206, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 85 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. The absolute majority is 227. For - 241, against - 207, stopped 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 5. to Article. 86f paragraph. 1 The Senate proposes an editorial and legislative change. We will consider this amendment together with Amendment 8. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 5 and 8, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. The absolute majority is 226. For - 3, against - 446, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm has rejected the amendments... Got it. Sorry. Of course. In Amendment 6, the Senate proposes appropriate amendments to the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. For - 409, against - 33, the 6. The Sejm rejected the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and certain other laws (prints Nos 1046 and 1058). I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws, print No 1046. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent the above draft resolution to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy at its meeting yesterday considered this draft law and recommended that the High House accept Amendment 1 and Amendment 3 and reject Amendment 2. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u40	We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. The Senate tabled the amendment to Article 1. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. In this amendment, to the article. 10a, the Senate proposes to adjust the amount of the threshold to be entitled to a compensatory benefit. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. In -2, against -444, 1 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 8 amending act containing amendments to the Social Assistance Act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For - 227, against - 208, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 13. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The absolute majority is 222. For - 1 vote against - 440, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on activists of anti-communist opposition and those repressed for political reasons and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in People (Prints 1048 and 1059). I ask Mr Paul Rychlik to present a report to the committee. First, tell me where you can buy a ranch with...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Health Committee on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Beings, print no. 1048. Your Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directed on 29 March this year. a resolution of the Senate on the above matter to the Committee on Health for consideration. This morning, the Health Committee met, discussed and, after considering this resolution, asks the High Sejm to reject the Senate amendments contained in points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. It also recommends that the amendments set out in points 1, 3, 4 and 5 vote jointly together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u42	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes to amend the title of the Act. Amendments 3, 4 and 5 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 3, 4 and 5 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For - 240, against - 196, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 21c Act on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in people The Senate proposes among others. giving a new mouth tone. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For - 297 against - 140, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Beings. We would like to refer to item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Chief Labour Inspector on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2018 together with the position of the Labour Protection Council and the position of the Commission for State Control and the Committee on Social and Family Policy. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the 2018 report, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has adopted the report. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to reject the report of the Chief Labour Inspector for 2018, contained in print No 73, would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 167, against - 231, holding 47. The Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore adopted the report. We would like to refer to item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Chief Labour Inspector on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2019 together with the position of the Labour Protection Council and the position of the Commission for State Control and the Committee on Social and Family Policy. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the 2019 report, which I will now put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has adopted the report. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to reject the report of the Chief Labour Inspector for 2019 in print No 470 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 164, against - 231, the 49. The Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore adopted the report. We return to the consideration of item 22. of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law Yes for the family, not for gender. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to proceed without delay to second reading without referring the draft to committee. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the bill. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to make a formal request. Right after the votes. Mr. Marshal, formal motion. We'll proceed with the vote. Mr. Marshal, the motion is before the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print no.915, will want to press the button. I made a formal request before the vote. Okay, you'll be... This is some kind of joke. Who's against it? Who's holding back? And that's what it is: to be good to you. That's how it ends. You won't even let me speak. [[Some Members get up and keep the sign: "Yes to the anti-violence convention, not to legalize violence in the family."]] You're in the Sejm. There's a marshal here. What do we care about the marshal? He's a violent marshal. You can always fool around a little bit. If you're allowed, we're allowed to. Think about women, not... This isn't a joke, this case is serious. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a citizens' project. A little respect for the citizens of Poland. For the citizens, too. The marshal is from serving women, from nothing more. What? What? 448 Members voted. For - 188, against - 250, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. The proposal adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm is to refer this draft law to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. I will put to the vote a motion to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill without referring it back to the committee. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent the draft law to the committee. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the request for the immediate entry into the second reading of the draft law contained in print No 915 without reference to the committee would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. Forty against 400, seven stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and sent the proposal to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Mrs Barbara Nowacka with a formal proposal. One minute. Why not two? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u43	Mr. Marshal! I asked for a formal motion before this vote to give your colleagues time to reflect. What you've just accepted for trial is a permit for domestic violence, it's a green light for the oppressors... Scandal! ...is a permit to terminate an international agreement that protects victims of violence. Don't lie to me. You don't want to do this, and it's a conscious act, not for the first time. You don't help the victims of domestic violence, you don't want to prevent economic violence. Don't lie to me. What you're doing is gagging the opposition's mouth. This is once again, also towards us, a violent act. What kind of violence? If this is what the Polish Parliament is going to look like and this is what the Polish reality is going to look like, change the name to: lawlessness, injustice and harm to women. [[Applause]] Bravo! It was a civic project. You don't want to prosecute civil projects.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u44	It was a statement, not a formal application. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Do you like it when they beat you at home? That's where we've exhausted the agenda. 27th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min 49 hours 12 min 51]] I'm reopening the session. That's where we've exhausted the agenda. 27th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. First, Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a statement about sleep. Anna Kozminska, a Polish war hero awarded the title of Righteous Among the Nations. With a heartache, I accepted the news of the death of the dead. Anna Kozminska, who was born on 24 March this year. She left at 101. She was the oldest living person to be honored individually with the Righteous Medal among the Nations. During World War II in the years 1943-1945 mistress Anna and her stepmother Maria Koźminska hid the Jewish boy Abraham Jabłoński. The boy was taken in after he escaped from the Częstochowa ghetto. Mr Koźminski has given refuge to several other people of Jewish origin, among others. a relative of the Jablonski family to Rubinstein and his friend Rita and Stefa's mother. After the war, Abraham Jabłoński emigrated to Israel and witnessed to the heroism of both Poles. It was at his request that Maria and Anna Kozminski were honored by the Yad Vashem Institute as the Righteous Medal among the Nations on 11 February 1991. In 2016, Anna Koźmińska received the Order of Rebirth of Poland from the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda. Peace of her soul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u46	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the occasion of Easter, I have the honour of expressing my wishes for the life-giving nature to give us new strength and hope that the change awaited by the Poles will finally come. In order for our tradition to be fulfilled, eggs should also be attached to our wishes. Well, for the Polish army, children's toys were purchased and transferred to use in the field, which can be bought in toys stores in category: toys from 3 to 8 years old. I am talking here about the scandalous purchase of compasses from the garden barbecue provider for the territorial defence units described by Onet.pl. I checked with companies involved in supplies of equipment for the army, and each of them claims that in order to carry out deliveries for the Polish army, they had to obtain appropriate certificates. Under these certificates, both the owner of the company, including his education, as well as the conditions imposed on the company by very strict standards of military supply. My first question is: Since when and on what basis have the certificates mentioned above ceased to apply? And if that is the case, then why aren't the military units informed about it and still demanding that the suppliers submit these documents? The second question concerns the purchase for the Polish army of equipment used on the battlefield. In accordance with generally applicable rules for such equipment, technical conditions should be laid down. These conditions should be accepted by the representatives of the army responsible for the selection, compatibility and strength of the equipment to be put into the divisions. A tender should then be launched, one of the elements of which should be the delivery of the sample lot which should be tested. Once the tests have been successfully passed and the relevant reports have been submitted, the tenderer may be selected and the contract may be placed. I have the impression that the process of purchasing compasses for WOT divisions was limited to viewing the purchasing page of one of the companies on the Allegro portal or maybe even on the OLX. Therefore, I ask for written information related to the procedure of purchasing equipment for the Polish army. Another question. How is it possible that the supplier of toy compasses after handing them over to WOT divisions, despite a devastating opinion on the quality of this equipment, was again allowed to tender for equipment (the bell) for the army and once again made an offer, in this case for Chinese flashlights not complying with any standards qualifying them as military equipment? Ladies and gentlemen! Let the waking nature give us strength and energy to overcome such eggs and give us the expected change not only in terms of changing such eggs into chicken eggs, but it will give us the strength to change the good change. May this holiday and this hope enter us.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u48	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In 115 days, the XXXII Summer Olympics in Tokyo will be held. Poland, Polish representatives have been preparing for this event for many years. Due to the pandemic this time the Olympic preparations cycle is five years, counting from the recent Olympic Games. The International Olympic Committee does not consider vaccination against COVID-19 of all participants in the Olympic Games to be necessary, inter alia. because in more than 200 countries that intend to participate in the summer Olympic Games, there are possibilities to vaccinate their representatives. Taking into account the preparations, expenditures on these preparations from the state budget, as well as our Olympic hopes, I ask the Polish government to modify the National Vaccination Program to include the possibility of vaccination of these players and players who want to vaccinate in preparation for the Tokyo Olympic Games. I mean all those who get the Olympic qualifications, their coaches, the staff that will participate together with these players in the Olympic competition. It is our kind of deviation from the national programme with about 700 people that will not weigh on the chances of many people waiting for vaccination. I mean the players and the players, the coaches, all those who will participate in the Olympic Games and the Special Olympic Games in Tokyo. I ask for such reflection. As you can see from the recent football World Cup elimination matches, COVID is everywhere present and prevents participation in competition at the highest level of many players. This also took place during the European Hall Championships in light athletes in Toruń. The point is not to repeat the same mistakes. There is time for this vaccination to be carried out in accordance with the procedures among our representatives preparing for the summer Olympic Games and the summer Special Olympic Games in Tokyo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u50	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u51	Mr Kaczyński, President of the Committee. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It would seem that doctors and medical workers should not be attacked at a time when the survival of our nationhood was a matter of their work and dedication. However, the first hypocrite of the Republic of Poland, the former president of a private bank, currently having special medical care at the hospital of MMA, just divided doctors into good ones - state and bad ones - private. Unlike the first liar, I want to thank everyone who saves our health and lives, regardless of what facility he treats. Let us remember that anyone who benefits from private medical care relieves the burden on the state, and so is the inefficient health care. Of course it's unfair that it's not only that we have to pay a health contribution, we still have to treat ourselves privately. But somehow the first avalanche didn't mention it. Let's think about what our teeth would look like if there weren't private dentists, or how many more women would die of cervical cancer, because a gynecologist is sometimes waiting for a month. Do you remember at what rate were the tests for Coronavirus going until they were allowed to be performed in private facilities? Let's wake up before this bunch of mediocrity called the government takes us back to a deep PRL.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u52	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The collapse in the system of State Medical Rescue is a fact. The conclusions of last week's Parliamentary Group on the System of Medical Rescue, which I am president, can be summarised as briefly as possible. On Sunday, medical emergency centers across Poland accepted 19 737 applications. Ambulance left for 9735. About half the trips were made before the pandemic, with an average daily of 5100 interventions. Before the pandemic 70% trips did not meet the criteria for immediate life-threatening conditions. Also during the epidemic, there are many unjustified notifications. The situation is aggravated by the increasing expectation of ambulances before the SORs. This expectation is due to a shortage of hospital emergency rooms. Often, such situations occur when a patient's transfer occurs only when someone, a patient at the SOR, dies. Plus, there are trips to more than 150 km of hospitals. These trips are due to the fact that ambulance crews, ambulance crews are looking for spare seats in hospitals. As part of the system of State Medical Rescue, 1589 away teams operate. The daily cost of such a team is from approx. 3200 PLN to 4300 PLN. At least that's how the rates in the Pomeranian voivodship are shaped. Standing in the driveway in front of the SOR for hours, the ambulance not only generates financial costs, but above all excludes the medical staff of the ambulance team from work. Therefore, from this point of view and at this difficult time, I call for a serious debate by the health department's management with representatives of the medical community on the ad hoc improvement in this area and, after the outbreak has ceased, the development and implementation of systemic changes in the State Medical Rescue.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u54	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I've put together a bill to help social services homes. The houses in which the last weeks, months and even years of life are spent by Polish seniors are several hundred in our country. The Pandemic showed us how difficult it is to work in social services homes and what really happens there, as in many cases the workers there risked their own lives to help our seniors. This law is above all a minor supplement to the salary for people directly involved in charge. And the second point: to eliminate the psychic absurd rule that nurses and nurses working in social services homes after 5 years lose their right to pursue their profession. This is absolute nonsense, and it needs to be eliminated. It's not a law left, it's not a law right, it's not a law middle. This is a bill to help our seniors and their guardians. I hope there will be no political divisions and we will all vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u56	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u57	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna make two appeals today. The first concerns the National Vaccination Program. I hope you hear those words today, Minister Niedzielski. I think that those who give blood honorably, give it for their well-known motives, too, today deserve to be in the right place in this vaccination plan. I urge you, Minister, however, to include this group, which certainly deserves it. Second theme. Ladies and gentlemen, today in the Sejm we have extended the possibilities of qualification for vaccination, among others. by pharmacists or nurses. Today Polish self-government officials... As a representative of the Western Pomerania, I am talking about the fact that we would like to propose something today that may be quite remote, regarding the need to increase the number of vaccination points. Our local government officials from Western Pomerania have proposed the following solution. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a common room at our disposal, a fire station, a closed school. Local governments know how to organise those places where additional vaccinations could be carried out in the future. Today we have a right that gives us such opportunities. Today we may actually have a dilemma about missing vaccines, but in a moment, ladies and gentlemen, when these vaccines come in so much that those places that are organized today will not be able to do more vaccination during the day than they have the opportunity, we will be forced to organize quickly these new points. That is why today it is worth taking advantage of this initiative. Local governments will organize places, organize the logistics of commuting to these places, while these regulations give us the opportunity to have nursing teams or pharmacists who could do so. Today we have to prepare these places, hence, Prime Minister, our proposal, the proposal of local governments, because local governments cooperate. It is not only the government that cares about Poles, it is the local government that cares about them, it is the state that you often forget about it, or you do not necessarily want to talk about it. That is why today I am presenting this initiative from Western Pomerania to you. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u58	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Paweł Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to appeal to President Andrzej Duda's Chief of Armed Forces to take a position on the Archbishop. Hungry. Let us not forget that Archbishop Głodź is a general of the Polish Army, and me as a member of the National Defence Commission, as well as soldiers who are currently serving or at rest, do not like that the Polish Army General has stained the honor of the General's uniform. Mr. President! Please take action in this regard and tell us what the Commander of the Armed Forces thinks about this, what could be done to deprive the Archbishop. Hunger of officers' posts. Yes, I'm asking you to take your stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-30-sejm-27-3.u60	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of interpellations and queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 27th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the next session of the Sejm, convened on 14 and 15 April 2021, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 13 min 11]]
