ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u1	Please take your seats. Despite the efforts of PLL LOT... We managed to get there with a 15-minute delay, and we're sorry. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome to finish your conversations. I open the 30th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I have appointed Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor to be the secretary of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the state of the epidemic, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to issue this meeting with a special formula on a regular basis. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of remote communication in a remote manner. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. The Senators taking part in the meeting remotely! Please make sure your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Marshal and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Office. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. When you turn on the machines, please surrender any voice to confirm your presence. Senators using an application for remote participation! Let me remind you that we have begun the vote, so-called. polling causes a message to appear. To take part in the vote, we click "OK" and press the "Transmit" button twice after the vote is cast in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. Please give any vote both in the courtroom and in a remote way. One Senator from the remote... Oh, he's already voted. Please report the results. 76 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Sejm adopted part of the Senate amendments at its 30th meeting on 17 September 2021: to the Act on the amendment of the Act on the remuneration of persons holding government positions and certain other laws; to the Act on the amendment of the Act on Payment Services; to the Act on the amendment of the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws; and to the Act on the amendment of the Act on the Law on the Specific Solutions related to the Prevention, Against and Combating COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In addition, the Sejm at the same meeting rejected all the amendments of the Senate tabled to the Act amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the twenty-seven and twenty-eighth meetings, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I would remind you that the draft law to be discussed in the first item of the agenda was introduced by the Council of Ministers as an urgent project. In this case, the time limit laid down in Article shall not apply. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention will be held at the end of the session. It is possible to supplement the agenda by one item: resolution. I am now asking if any of your senators would like to speak on the agenda. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 30th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that the vote on the agenda item will be held today after the adjournment. I would also like to inform you that, following the interruption of the session, the agenda may be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 45th anniversary of the Committee for the Defence of Workers. 10 minutes after the second-floor adjournment, the exhibition will also be opened. "Press of the Committee for the Defence of Workers." And that's how we end our initial executions. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the act on compensation for service providers or economic operators in connection with the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of the Podlaskie Voivodship and part of the Lublin Voivodship in 2021. The text of the Act is contained in print No 492, and the report of the Commission In print No 492 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Marshal Maria Koc, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, I would like to present a report on the Compensation Act for service providers and economic operators in connection with the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of the Podlasie Voivodeship and part of the Lublin Voivodeship in 2021. High Senate! Dear Marshal, The President of the Republic of Poland by Regulation of 2 September 2021 introduced a state of emergency in the area of part of the Podlaskie Voivodeship and part of the Lublin Voivodeship in a belt with a width of 3 km along the Polish-Belarusian border for a period of 30 days. The purpose of the Act, which is a government submission, is to introduce into the legal order solutions which will enable compensation to be paid to businesses and farmers operating during a state of emergency in the area concerned. Companies and farmers providing hotel services within the meaning of the Act of 29 August 1997 on hotel services and tour pilots and tour guides will be able to apply for compensation... Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, do you need a mask on the platform? [[No, Mrs. Marshal. We agreed before that the people who were vaccinated...]] I'm inoculated. Good. [[...can speak without a mask.]] I'm sorry. Thank you very much. They will also be able to apply for compensation: entrepreneurs operating in the field of gastronomy, entrepreneurs operating in the activities of a tourism organizer or an entity facilitating the acquisition of related tourist services within the meaning of the Act of 24 November 2017 on tourism events and related tourist services, entrepreneurs operating in the activities of a tour pilot or a tourist guide within the meaning of the Act of August 1997 on hotel services and services of tour and tourist guides pilots and entrepreneurs engaged in the rental and leasing of tourist and recreational equipment. Doing business in the area covered by this Act... Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, this is the 3 km lane along the Polish-Belarusian border. These are precisely the registration lists listed in the annex to the Regulation of the President of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, High Senate, it has been assumed that the compensation will be fixed for a period of 30 days in the exceptional state of 65%. the average monthly income of the applicant from the services provided by him or his business activities associated with that possibility of compensation during the period covering June, July and August 2021. In the event of an extension of the exceptional condition or its abolition before the expiry of the period for which it was introduced, the amount of compensation shall be fixed in proportion to the duration of the exceptional condition. The compensation will be granted on request to the competent voivode, i.e. the Podlaskie or Lublin voivodeship. The proposal will have to meet the conditions set out in the Act, but this is a simplified proposal. There will be no need to present documents showing loss of revenue, only to submit an application. The province shall immediately, within 14 days at the latest, grant this compensation. But, as Minister Błażej Pgodzia, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, stressed, the term "instantly" is in force here. In order to verify the data contained in the request, the voivode will be able to carry out checks or order them to be carried out. The audit will be mandatory if the amount of compensation exceeds PLN 65 thousand. The applicant, who will be dissatisfied with the compensation decision, will be able to bring an action before the General Court within 30 days of the date of service of the decision in that case. In cases before the general court, the State Treasury will represent the voivode. The Act does not exclude the possibility of seeking damages from the Treasury on a general basis, unless compensation is paid. The compensation shall be paid within 30 days of the date of service of the decision of the applicant. The applicant to whom the compensation will be paid shall not be entitled to a claim against the State Treasury for the compensation of the loss of property incurred in connection with the operation resulting from the exceptional condition and to compensation for the loss of benefits which the applicant could have obtained if the loss had not been incurred. The compensation will constitute de minimis aid and the revenue from compensation will not be an income within the meaning of the laws on personal income tax and corporate income tax, i.e. it will not be taxed. High Senate, at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, you presented Minister Błażej Pogoda, Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, who also answered the questions asked by the senators. The questions concerned the amount of compensation and the questions concerned the expected cost of compensation. The Minister informed that the total cost would be, as expected, PLN 7 million. This will apply to around 300 operators. The questions also concerned the situation at the border, as if already outside the law, and the general introduction of a state of emergency, while the senators stressed that this was not, of course, a strict issue of the sitting, as well as that it goes beyond the scope of this law. But those are the questions that have arisen. During the meeting, proposals for amendments were presented by the Legislative Bureau, 5 proposals for amendments, which were accepted by the government and were also voted by the senators, by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Two amendments were also tabled by Senator Jacek Bury. In short, the amendments provided for the extension of the catalogue of beneficiaries of the Act to all economic operators, not only those operating in the area of tourism and gastronomy, broadly understood. These amendments have not been accepted by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Therefore, High Senate, on behalf of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, I ask the High Senate to adopt this law together with the amendments adopted by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u3	Thank you very much, Marshal. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? No. The bill's draft was filed... Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, representing the Secretary of State, Minister Maciej Wąsik, has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Welcome to the meeting. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome. The mask photo rule applies the same way.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I would like to thank your marshal, Senator Koc, the Senator of the rapporteur for a very detailed discussion of the bill. And actually, I don't have much left to add. However, I would like to add that there is a law in our legal system on the compensation of property losses resulting from the limitation during the period of extraordinary freedom of human rights and of the citizen. And this law can, of course, be applied in parallel. But by looking at these rules, which have been created quite a long time ago, because in 2002, we noticed that it would not be possible here to compensate entrepreneurs in this narrow, but nevertheless an important belt for the lost profits. And this compensation actually equals the income lost. We've dimensioned it at 65%... and I'll probably try to avoid some of your senators' questions in a conscious way: that's 65%. revenue. Not revenue, not profits, revenue. This is everything that affects the company before taking off the costs that... That's when the income is created. We consulted that, too. And that's a high level of compensation. I know there were amendments in the Seym to make it even higher, but I don't think there's a need for that. Also, a significant change or an important other approach to the above-mentioned law on equalisation of property losses resulting from the limitation during the emergency is that we shorten the deadlines that we are trying to help faster. Therefore, the act is being dealt with as a matter of urgency. I understand the powers of the High Senate to submit amendments to this is an obvious right However, I was hoping that perhaps we could do without amendments, then these rules would work faster. But if the High Senate doesn't agree, then of course we will have to address it and the Sejm will also have to deal with it. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, please accept the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u5	Thank you very much. May the Minister please stay on the stand, or there may be questions. Let me just remind you that five amendments, as the marshal said, have received government approval, so here we don't feel like we're delaying it on purpose. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your seniors like to ask such a question? Who was first? [[Senator Kwiatkowski.]] Senator Kwiatkowski, then Senator Zdrojewski and Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I would like to ask if you, as a public official, consider it reasonable Not in a legal sense, because, of course, you wrote it in the law, before it was the 2002 law, but in a factual sense. "Entrepreneurs are entitled to compensation if the State in practice closes down their businesses legally pursued by them. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Could you repeat the question because I didn't really understand the substance of the question? I heard a sentence...]] Minister, would you agree that entrepreneurs are entitled to compensation if the State shuts down their legitimate business activity? The question is trivially simple, untraceable.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u7	Mr. Senator, I'm not gonna answer that question because that question doesn't apply to this bill. I'm aware of what you're trying to do, but this question doesn't apply to this bill. [[Minister, I don't know what you think I'm trying to do...]] Mr. Senator, this bill doesn't close any... [[Question... there's no polemics, it's just...]] I'm sorry. I thought there was a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u8	There's a question and an answer. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Okay.]] The Minister didn't hear. Please repeat the question again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u9	Minister, I'll say it again. Do you consider it reasonable that the Polish State should pay compensation at the time when its decisions prevent entrepreneurs from operating their legitimate business activity in practice?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u10	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u11	Mr. Senator, that's not a question for this bill. This bill doesn't close... There have been restrictions on movement in this area, which make the revenues of entrepreneurs can fall, only and exclusively. And that's compensation for that. We don't close, we don't ban any activity. This bill is talking about something else entirely. I recommend her exact reading. [[Minister, the question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u12	Question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u13	In one sentence, Minister. I didn't say that in a legal sense, but in a practical sense... And if you're preventing people from entering this area, if you think you're not shutting down somebody's business in practice, then I assure you that everyone in this area who runs agrotourism companies, equipment rentals or souvenir shops doesn't think so, because in practice they don't have any customers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u14	This is the impression of the senator. You don't have to answer that. You're asking Senator Zdrojewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u15	Minister, looking at the date of the request for an emergency state and the current situation, we can say that, in general, the situation has become rather complicated, rather worse. Is the government considering a possible recommendation for extending this time, or setting up a state of emergency for the next 30 days? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u16	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u17	That too, Mr. Marshal, is not a question about this law, and I will therefore refrain from answering that question. That's the question to the president about his intentions and the question to the government if he's gonna bring it up. I would like to answer questions about this law, and I have a power of attorney here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u18	Here, in turn, I must support Senator Zdrojewski, because he asked for your opinion as a high official of the Republic of Poland. You can only answer for yourself. If you don't know if that's the plan or not, it's okay. I have the impression that the question was addressed personally to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u19	Mr. Marshal, I don't know if I know this is another matter. Surely discussing the Compensation Act is not a good time to communicate such issues to the public. So that you understand me. I want to answer the senators' questions, but I don't want to answer the general political questions. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u20	Well, that was actually a question in the context of this bill. You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question. One more question? [[Yes.]] Okay, that'll be a minute. [[... a card.]] Before the senator takes the card, the second question will be asked by Senator Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u21	First, a brief explanation of 15 seconds. That was the question in the context of this law. This law deals with compensation for economic operators. I believe that doing business should be based primarily on the reliability and certainty of doing business. I asked this question because those entities which now receive certain compensation must also prepare themselves for a possible extension of this period. I know the president makes those decisions personally. It is the President's decision, although he makes it on the basis of how he discerns the situation of the resort that you represent. This also applies to other security resorts. It is very important to me at the moment whether the deterioration of the border situation has been confirmed by the Minister. If so, then we should think about it. Already now, not at the last moment or after the time . above the possible extension of this. Economic operators, which are subject to today's law, should know this. For me, the state of the ministry's knowledge, which you represent, is very important. I'm talking about knowledge à about today's situation and possible forecasts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u22	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u23	The bill that I am trying to present says that if the state of emergency is extended, we will react in proportion to the extension of this state. Compensation will be paid for a longer period. Polish law says that the state of emergency can be extended once, no longer than 60 days. Therefore, if it is extended, the compensation will also be paid proportionally longer, for a pro rata longer period. I would like to assure the senator that if the president asks our department, we will certainly present the situation. There's one more thing I'd like to say. Well, in my opinion, the situation at the border hasn't gotten any worse. It's just to popolem a little. She's stable. This pressure is still big, although it seems... You can be sure that the Border Guard, the military, and the police, who support these formations, control the situation at the border, in a determined way. There are people who are trying to cross the border, but it's being prevented. These people are being detained at the border.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u24	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u25	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you why you considered June, July and August 2021. I ask you this because this is a region where the peak of traffic falls not in June, not in July, not in August, but in September. So I have a question: why isn't this a higher amount when it comes to compensation? Why is this not a matter decided in such a way as to ensure some justice? Because I don't think this proposal is fair. She's not what she's supposed to be when we're talking about justice. And if you don't mind, I'm gonna ask you a second question about all these industries around tourism. It's always that there are accompaniment industries. Why aren't they included in this bill? After all, the tourism industry, as we all know, is not a lonely island. There are many other companies around this industry. I have a feeling you've abandoned them. And the third question, Minister. You can't compensate for losses to those who don't have full accounting. That's the truth. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: No.]] You will not compensate for losses to those who are registered elsewhere. Well, all of a sudden it turns out that. Someone can't prove the source of their income. For example: there are 2 hotels in Janów Podlaski. The former is in a zone that is in a state of emergency, and the latter is in a state of emergency, Minister. Not anymore. To the other hotel, people. They won't come either, because the stud, Minister, is closed in this complicated situation. And the owner of this hotel won't get any help from you. The same goes for a restaurant that's out of the zone. Your help, Minister, is patching, but there will be more holes in your operation than just help. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u26	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u27	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. [[Good morning, Minister.]] Of course I'll answer that question, Senator. [[Because it was questions about the bill.]] Mr. Senator, I would recommend reading the bill. The bill doesn't say anything about entities registered there. The law speaks of entities providing services there. The company may be registered in Szczecin, but if it has a hotel, an agrotourism farm or a canoe rental on Bug near Terespol... This is an economic activity carried out in that region. That's the answer to the first question. I'm calming the senator. All economic operators which are included in the catalogue may receive aid even if they do not keep a complete accounting. Every entity has income, anyone can declare what income they have. I am glad that you have such a view that the highest season in this region is September, but the economic data from the Ministry of Finance says otherwise. The highest season in this region is June, July, August. We, Mr. Senator, are referring to a high season to ensure that these compensations are beneficial to entrepreneurs. We want them to be beneficial to entrepreneurs to help them drive... to compensate for lost income or lost profits. Here's what I'm going to say: if you read the emergency decision, you'll see that there's nothing there about shutting down any other industries. I know that tourism in this small region I emphasize: a small one, because it is a narrow belt. It is an important part of the economy, which is why we support this tourism. The stream of money is intended to go to tourism, but sawmills can work, farmers can work, other companies producing different goods or providing other types of services can operate. We're not closing anything. Of course, I agree with you on one thing: we will not make a bill that will compensate everyone for the loss that will say that it will be exactly as if there was no state of emergency. Of course, that's not possible, that's not possible. I agree with you. But wherever we can, we're trying to compensate for the damage. In this situation I ask you to understand, because you can always complain, you can always say that a taxi driver from Warsaw, who drove customers to an agrotourism farm in Krynki once in a while, will not go there now. Well, I agree, he's actually gonna lose some money, but I'm sure he can handle it by working hard like all the cab drivers. But should this bill compensate him? No. Of course not, Senator. Of course not. I understand the senator's concern, but I'm trying to make your argument. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u28	Thank you, Minister. [[Mr. Marshal, one sentence, one sentence.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u29	Minister, I say I come from the economy. There are suppliers and subcontractors, and you know it. And I asked for them. I wanted to know from you how they'd be satisfied financially.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u30	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Today we will celebrate a bill which, as we know, in the Seym did not cause great controversy, and therefore almost the entire House voted in favour of this law. We had similar reflections on the economic committee. I think that today's debate and vote in the Senate will also confirm that we, as a collective, as the High House, have the view that, in emergency situations, a state, when it restricts or prohibits business activity, should compensate businesses, all those who conduct business, for their losses. But the uniqueness and weight of this law also has a different dimension. Namely, it is a law, which, you can say, would not be necessary, because in the Polish law system we have a 2002 law and it could of course be used here, because for this purpose it was passed almost 20 years ago. However, I would like to say that I am not critical of this project. On the contrary, it is very good that the government thought to create a specialty, because de facto its main purpose and value is the fact that all compensation processes, let's call them that, but I use this concept in the colloquial sense, will be faster than if the 2002 Act were applied. On the other hand, which is also important, this law, as well as that of 2002, will not block the possibility of claiming compensation in a range other than that which can be obtained if the injured party considers that it has not been compensated for losses. But we are also dealing with a situation that is difficult to ignore in the debate on this law. Namely, I mean context. We are dealing with a law which involves the introduction of the first time in the history of the Third Republic, the first time since communism, the first time since the times of the Polish People's Republic. First time! The state of emergency, which not only limits business opportunities, but also limits civil rights. And for this reason it is necessary to lean on this fact, to reflect, even in the context of whether the introduction of a state of emergency for this reason, which we are observing, is necessary. And if so, why? I've got questions like this. Mr Andrzej Duda did not convene the National Security Council to discuss the matter with representatives of all political forces in Poland? After all, it is not about the threat of Law and Justice, not about the threat of the government, but about the threat of the Polish state. If so, why didn't the Prime Minister consult the political, social representatives or the heads of all political groups? We're dealing with a threat here, aren't we? I'll say it again. Not the Law and Justice, not the United Right, not the Government, but the Polish State. And the opposition is also an element of the Polish state. More questions arise. Why, then, if the matter is so serious that a state of emergency is being introduced, has not cooperation with the institutions of the European Union and finally with the authorities of the European Union been undertaken? Why do we keep hearing reports: we can handle it ourselves? To be honest, these questions give rise to doubts as to whether this state of emergency is justified at all. Finally, I would add that serious doubts concern the ban on journalists' admission to areas of emergency. We understand that this must apply to citizens, to random people, to refugees, because for the various reasons that people talk about and write about, they may try to find themselves there. But why journalists who are representatives of the public? Do we have anything to hide about what's going on in a state of emergency? I believe that transparently and honestly acting public authority has nothing to hide and should have nothing to hide. I believe that legislation should be amended immediately, regardless of whether the emergency is extended or not, and, through free media, allow public opinion in an emergency territory. Back to the bill, I would like to say that this is an important and necessary law, we will vote for it, but in our view there are some shortcomings and errors that we will want to complete the amendments. Some of these amendments were tabled as proposals for amendments by the Legislative Bureau. So that even the Legislating Office found some shortcomings in this, I repeat it once again. A valid and good bill. However, some of the provisions will still have to be supplemented. Why? Because this law does not cover as if it were complete It's probably never gonna be like this. A valid and essential range of economic operators and only a part of the operators. E.g. entrepreneurs who carry out business activities in the field of tourism are not taken into account here, entrepreneurs who carry out their business activities in the field of culture, entertainment and recreation. And yet this is the basis of activity in those areas. Nor have they been taken into account by those entrepreneurs who are engaged in an economic activity related to the food trade or the sale of souvenirs. On this occasion... This situation reminds me, à speaking of Senator Kwiatkowski's questions, of the situation which is during the pandemic or was during the pandemic, when it was businessmen operating commercial services in school shops nobody No public authority, no government, no law It did not prohibit economic activity, but schools were closed, and the shopkeepers were therefore de facto unable to carry out business activities. Many months had to pass so that our proposals, proposals, amendments and finally the law were taken into account by the authorities, by the government. As a result, it was only after many, many months that school shopkeepers were taken into account when it came to helping them. Here, in this case, we would like that to happen. The level of compensation of 65% is also called into question Revenue and we will propose that it be 80%. And in the end, I want to say one thing, which means I'm also going to propose an amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 5, under which I propose to delete the last sentence, because this provision is quite amazing, it introduces the obligation, the obligation to carry out checks on entrepreneurs. I think it's art. 3 is not needed at all because the institutions of the State have the right to carry out checks, as is apparent from other laws, and it is not necessary to write about it at all. If we are writing this, it is enough that the first sentence of this article is that the voivode has the right to carry out the verification of documents. And not that there's a mandatory obligation to carry out checks, there's no such situation... Putting something like that in charge, assuming that every entrepreneur is a thief, so if he writes a request to the voivodeship, he needs to be checked immediately. This is not how we can approach people and businessmen. If the voivode or the public institutions doubt, it will be possible to carry out a check. The system of law, Polish law gives such grounds at any time and whether it is a state of emergency or not. Obligatoryness, first of all, is not necessary, second of all, it would be outrageous for the authorities to break the principle of the presumption of fairness of citizens. That is why we will be proposing an amendment to delete this provision, i.e. part of this recipe. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u32	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are proceeding is absolutely necessary, and it is good that such an initiative has emerged, for my part there is full support. And my question is whether, if the Polish state, a democratic state is closing anybody's legitimate activities, whether legally or in a practical, actual way, and this is the situation we are dealing with, whether this person should receive compensation, was not a trick question, I would even say that it was an obvious question to which the answer arises itself, and it can even be said that it was a rhetorical question. Yes, in a democratic state, if a state prevents a person from doing business legally, it must pay him compensation, compensation or whatever we call it. This is absolutely obvious. For this reason, for me, the project of compensation for those entrepreneurs who carry out business activities in an area actually closed to outsiders is absolutely obvious. Only, ladies and gentlemen, my questions were caused by something else. We in Poland have actually been dealing with a situation for almost 2 years when not only entrepreneurs in this narrow zone on the border with Belarus could not carry out their business activity. And that's extremely important. That is why Senator Tyszkiewicz and I have just tabled a group of amendments to this bill, which you pointed out to Senator Szejnfeld in exactly this direction. After all, there are also entities actually related, providing services, operating in connection with the service of operators in this area, such as the carriage of tourists, leisure, entertainment or other activities aimed at tourists in this closed area or in trade dedicated to those people who would come to this area. But my statement refers to something else. I'd like to show you something. How's the Senate working? Last week, four days ago, the Sejm, which is the lower chamber of parliament, adopted this compensation scheme. What's going on? The Senate gathers after 4 days, I emphasize, after 4 days, to work on this law, absolutely necessary and necessary. I hope that the Sejm will meet again this week if we make these amendments which allow for a more precise response to the needs of those who have suffered real losses related to government decisions in this area. I hope that the Sejm will show equal diligence in this matter as the Senate. But it is not by chance that I refer to this example. Ladies and gentlemen, the so-called "Polish Parliament" came out of this House. a special compensation bill for those companies that have actually experienced pandemic closures. How is the Senate law different from the Seym law? Nothing, actually. Why? The Specue we're working on today is just as special as the senate one. I agree with the lawyers who prepared this project: yes, it is faster to prepare a specialist. That is why we also prepared one in the Senate, and we did not use the provisions of the 2002 Act. More, I agree with the philosophy of both these projects: an entrepreneur who suffered real property damage as a result of the decision of officials, officers of the Polish state, should be compensated. Of course, here we can discuss whether at 65% , as you propose in your project, or 70% as was the draft Senate Act, the big compensation bill we prepared, or 80% as is in the amendments tabled. But I note that you have used exactly the patterns we showed you in the Senate as the easiest path: yes, the application for compensation addressed to the voivodeship under the same procedure, yes, the entity dissatisfied with the decision on the amount of compensation has the right to appeal to the court. In the project we are working on today, this is called compensation, in the Senate project it is called compensation. But what's the difference? We have dealt with the project of this initiative four days after its adoption by the Sejm. The compensation bill, which the Senate adopted on 19 February, has not yet been dealt with by the Sejm. It has been 7 months and not thousands of companies, as in the case of this law, but hundreds of thousands of Polish entrepreneurs expect it to be adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, more and more, the Sejm committees have long since completed their work, because on 27 May the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development adopted this proposal. Also parliamentarians of the PiS, e.g. by not participating in this vote, they actually supported this project because they realize how much the Senate initiative was needed. So? Nothing. The Senate on this project meets after 4 days, and the Sejm did not have enough time to get to know and vote on the draft of the Senate initiative. Therefore, at this point, on this occasion, I stress once again that I absolutely agree with this philosophy that if someone is prevented from doing business, earning, maintaining himself and his family, he should be entitled, regardless of what it is called, compensation or compensation. This is the philosophy that the Minister in this room has so strongly supported today. I hope that this enthusiasm for these solutions will also be given to the Marshal of the Polish Sejm, who will immediately direct the project of the Senate compensation specialty to the plenary session of the Sejm, because it is not expected by thousands This project is needed and it is very good that this project is here But hundreds of thousands of Polish entrepreneurs, who looked with great hope at how the Senate came out with this initiative, how the project was adopted, supported by the Sejm committee, and completely do not understand this situation today, that many months go by and the project still cannot go to the plenary session of the Sejm. It's a good time not to divide entrepreneurs into better and worse, those who have companies at the east border, and all the others who have them elsewhere. Let us also use this room to make the sound of a loud voice, that we must support all those who have been subjected to negative government decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u34	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I connect with you from a place where we are dealing with a state of emergency, because in my constituency, which is also made up of the Bial district, we are dealing with a situation that the High House is currently debating. I'm after talking to entrepreneurs, I'm after talking to residents of this area. They, first of all, thank you for taking this initiative quickly; well, I hope that these compensations will be implemented quickly. Secondly, they want me to give thanks to the Border Guard, the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army, the State Police, all those services that are involved in protecting the Polish border through the High House. Their presence will certainly make them feel safer. I am listening to this discussion and I would like to make an amendment, which is already in the hands of the legislators, which is in line with the expectations of extending a group of entities which will be subject to compensation by means of a proposal to the voivodeship. She does not, of course, restrict the judicial process, but makes it easier for all those who are not mentioned in the article. 1 law, obtaining compensation by submitting an application to the voivodeship. I think that such an amendment introducing a discretionary procedure for the voivodship, which, due to its severe position, the extent of the losses, the circumstances that the operator in this area has suffered damage... In the interests of fairness, the voivode will be able to pay such compensation. I do not mention in this amendment the entities, industries, enterprises to be covered by this possibility, actually we leave this... [[Disruption during the speech]] Here, life itself will make a good script. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u36	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I will immediately point out that I am not in favour of emergency states, I have bad associations, especially with what we remember most strongly, that is, martial law, but I am aware that there are circumstances, conditions when we have to use this legal opportunity, these constitutional powers of the President or the Prime Minister. And let me add, first of all, that I am fully aware that extraordinary states are in order to give power more power and so that power can do something good with this power, with these additional powers: on the one hand, justify some of its actions, on the other hand, repair possible damage, on the third, introduce certain limitations that are intended to reduce costs, reduce losses, also in people. That's why I'm looking at these states with quite a lot of skepticism. I'll also say right away that I was in favour of a state of emergency being introduced when the pandemic began. Today, we know how much this pandemic has brought about over 70,000 victims. Then this emergency would be very appropriate, perhaps reducing the number of these victims, perhaps it could also be more efficient to carry out compensation cases and reduce the scale of various dramas, including those who are engaged in economic activities. I'll tell you right away, so there's no doubt I'll support this bill. I will support this law, because this law in its most important records has the power to give power just to compensate for the losses that have been incurred, will be incurred or are just being borne by various economic operators in the border strip with Belarus. It was not a coincidence that questions were asked whether the current analysis of the situation gave us a chance to hope that this situation would end after 30 days, or whether it might continue. I believe that, in the case of economic activities, the certainty of the conduct of this business, the certainty of the conditions under which this business is carried out, is extremely important. We know very well that business planning, cost planning, planning of various services requires time, advance, advertising, from time to time of booking, etc., etc. So it is very important and it is important that the government announces possible decisions or variants of these decisions so that they can be prepared for them. Unfortunately, this condition has not now been met. Another thing that is extremely important to me is whether the state of emergency that has been introduced is proof that the government is not doing well under normal conditions, whether it is proof that the scale of the difficulties at the border exceeds the capacity to operate under current legal conditions, or that the possible costs that could have occurred without the introduction of the state of emergency would have been higher than when it was introduced. I never accuse anyone of bad intentions, I never start with that. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have a very important European institution in Poland, which we have been fighting for. This is Frontex. Frontex is currently making a declaration on the possibility of helping the Polish state to protect the external European border. We're the ones with the help. At least there is no such decision We don't use it. And for me, it's very important to ask ourselves whether we've been doing this kind of thing for the last few years. I'm not talking about the last six years, I'm talking at all. I also feel that barbed wire pictures are unfortunately bad images, because they are pictures indicating that when it comes to technology and professionalism in protecting the external border, we are in some 1950s. This resembles the border of North Korea rather than the European countries. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that information about those who are trying to cross the border is very often unprofessional. It is very often pointed out that the Afghans are the main group. We know it's not like this group's probably gonna be here a lot, a lot later. However, it is very important that the Polish state in such a situation, in a situation which is not easy at all, I want to make this clear. It had knowledge, competence and proper tools, and as it introduces a state of emergency, that it should do only good and not sometimes evil out of this additional authority. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the refusal of journalists to observe what is happening at the border cannot, unfortunately, be interpreted differently than as an attempt to close this entire area before public scrutiny. And it's not a good situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u38	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Mariusz Gromko, Aleksander Szwed, Robert Mamytkow and Senator Józef Błecherz... [[Voice from the room: Janusz.]] Janusz, I'm sorry. ... Janusz Bladder has laid down... [[Voice from the room: Władysław Komarnicki...]] Okay, okay. ... Władysław Komarnicki, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Wadim Tyszkiewicz submitted their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, Senator Adam Szejnfeld and Senator Marek Martynowski. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Thank you. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Excuse me, someone said 'no', Mr. Marshal.]] Excuse me? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Someone said no. It wasn't me.]] Excuse me, Minister. You see, I have helpers. I'm sorry. You're welcome. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Some strange custom in the Senate, someone is responsible for me.]] Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u39	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. I would like to make a general comment on what came out of the speaker, and say yes: I understand your senators and that they are being tabled amendments. It is clear that if we offered 80% compensation I'm sure Senator Szejnfeld would have thought this compensation was too low. I understand that this is a certain law of opposition, and I respect that law. I'm sure we'll be able to have a quiet discussion right now at the committee meeting. But I don't agree deeply with some bad analysis you conducted by Senator Zdrojewski. Well, it's not like the government can't handle it. It is not that the main purpose of the state of emergency is to remove the media from reporting the situation. I would like to stress that there are men standing opposite each other on the side of the Belarusian border guard, on our side our border guard Who have weapons standing by. And I would like to say one more thing to you: none of those refugees who are on the Belarusian side at Usner's height would be there now, if it had not been for certain political factors, the opposition, if it had not been for the political events that took place there, unnecessary happenings. If it hadn't been for the media and the media shooting this situation, these people wouldn't be suffering in the rain and the cold right now, right behind the fence on the Belarusian side. [[Mr. Marshal, I ask you to respond to what the Minister is saying because he is accusing the opposition of igniting the situation at the border. This is unacceptable.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u40	Mr. Senator... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: I have not interrupted you once, Senator, I would like to draw attention to this.]] Excuse me, please report, but in some mode. Okay? I don't see a situation where I should interfere. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u41	I would like to stress, Mr Marshal, that as people responsible for the Polish border guarding services, we think that these actions were extremely irresponsible. You can tell yourself I blame the opposition. I blame those people who behaved outrageously irresponsible at the border. And I did, Mr. Senator. I hope our assessment is similar. Mr. Marshal... [[That's different. Thank you...]] ...I probably wouldn't have exercised my right to come back if someone hadn't tried to answer for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u42	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held after the adjournment. Dismissed until 3:30 p.m. I would like to inform you that in 10 minutes upstairs the exhibition will be opened and the Seniors' Convention will be held in half an hour. And then there's the announcement. You're welcome, Senator Secretary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u43	Meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of applications submitted at the 30th Senate meeting to the Act on Compensation for service providers or economic operators in connection with the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of Podlasie Voivodeship and part of Lublin Voivodeship in 2021 will take place 30 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u44	Thank you very much. I've announced a recess. I've served it when we continue. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 23 to 15 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u45	I'm reopening the session. I ask you senators to take your seats and to refrain from speaking out loud. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 45th anniversary of the Committee for the Defence of Workers and consider it as item two of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed to the second agenda: second reading of the draft resolution on the 45th anniversary of the Committee for the Defence of Workers. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 504. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs and the senate circles, was included on the agenda without first reading. I ask the authorized representative of the applicants, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, to present a draft resolution. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I want to thank you because this project has been supported by all the political groups in the Senate. It's not always like this. And that's not always the case when it comes to historical matters. But in this case, as it turns out, we are here, in the Senate, one. In just two days, 45 years have passed since the beginning of the Workers' Defence Committee. This committee was tied up bottom-up, and the reason for that was repression after June '76. The workers of Ursus, Radom, Płock, as well as other localities were repressed, because the strikes at food prices were also in other localities, but there were special strikes, not only, but also special repressions. For the first time against these repressions and to help the oppressed workers, people organized themselves. For the first time in years. Communist dictatorship has always acted in such a way that it opposed workers' intelligence. And here it turned out that this opposition was only part of the political game, political gameplay, to keep the Polish society in line. I remember being told, also in my environment, after December '70 and March '68, that workers did not support students in 1968, intelligence, and therefore intelligence did not support workers in 1970. It was not true, it was an element of manipulation, because in 1968 in Gdansk together with students, I saw it personally, the workers also demonstrated it, and in 1970. First of all, young people, also students. But this division was used, it was like it was in consciousness. And when the intelligent environments set up the NRA, and before that, they started helping workers who were fired, repressed, put in prison, that was it. not only direct help, much needed, but also denial of this thesis. It was very important for unity of action. August 1980, this huge strike, it was already a common strike, then this thesis did not function at all. What I'm saying is that the members of the NRA, who were 38, come from two generations. It was a generation of pre-war activists, largely from PPS, socialist, but also others, because there were also chadecas, there were also 2 priests, priest Kaminski and priest Jan Zieja with an amazing CV, from chaplain in 1920 to chaplain in the Warsaw Uprising. He was able to resist, it seemed, a very difficult situation and such imposing tendencies. During the uprising he said: "A German who surrenders cannot be killed. A German who goes into captivity... He opposed a situation that was understood during the occupation and uprising, because the Germans did crimes that caused such reflexes in young people. He was able to resist it. Then he went to KOR, the Workers' Defense Committee. The NRA was involved in raising money, observing trials, reaching out to families to help in various ways, primarily financial, but also legal. Participation in the NRA... Now it seems that the members of the NRA are some significant, distinct group. No, very often people who worked with the NRA did much more than some members of the NRA. The quantitative limitation, these 38 people, was related to the capacity of Professor Lipinski's apartment, it was simply impossible to fit more people there and we called the others KOR co-workers, but they often did much more than those who signed... So there were two generations. The first was called the Older State. They were leaning on the repression. Well, it would be difficult to repress Angela Steinsberg, who defended the strikers from the 1930s, or Pajdak, who was still being repressed by the Tsar regime. Yeah, but it's also about Fr. I'm yawning. And they made us feel safe. And there was a second group of people, then young. It was a group that went through prison in March 1968. They were graduates of universities who went through this repression mill and decided to move on. But I would also like to mention the very important collaborators of the NRA. They were lawyers who had the right to go to trial and to go to trial. The forces-Nowicki, Szczuka, Olszewski, Taylor were the forces of these antidepressants. And they also provided some protection for us because they had to take care of us, not the workers, but us, or members of the NRA. I would like to say that the NRA are also people of good faith who have acted quite socially, often spontaneously. But the NRA won the victory. It seemed impossible that this power did what it wanted, but the NRA led to the release of all the workers. And that was the first tangible success. The NRA also launched a new system of action against power, a system to which that authority was not adapted. Well, the authorities didn't know what to do with it. Because what to do with an illegal organization, she knew It was detected and members were imprisoned. But it wasn't an organization, it was an environment. It was an environment of loosely connected people who met and decided to work together to help others. Then the NRA turned into a Social Self-Defense Committee, in which various specialised agendas were already in operation. Mirosław Chojecki founded the Nowa publishing house. A huge number of publications appeared outside of censorship. Zbigniew Romaszewski and his wife Zofia specialized in defending the oppressed, not only politically. He defended those who were harmed by power in any way. This is where people were asking for help. It was also a worker's environment, which decided to act to mobilize workers. Well, we knew that without the workers we wouldn't be able to overthrow this system. In turn, this environment was connected to my environment, which we called Free Trade Unions. It was the coastal worker's environment. Well, the coastal worker's environment prepared a strike in August. I'm talking about it because nothing is born of anything. It was born from this group. We were on this strike, and then we started organizing solidarity. And we led this solidarity until January 1981, until the national authorities were formed. That was the most important thing at the time. That's why I thank you for the fact that other senators think just like I do. This must be borne in mind, for this is really something that we should refer to, something that we should refer to. In any difficult, repressive situation, we should remember that then we could organize ourselves. I'd like to propose three self-corrections for this resolution, so stylistic. I propose that in the second paragraph, in the first verse, the treatment should be deleted. But like any dictatorship... Here it is not necessary, and this text should be said: "Like every dictatorship... It's a stylistic matter. Similarly, in the third paragraph, I propose to delete there the cure. The first verse should be: something extraordinary happened, and not yet happened. And the third amendment. In the penultimate paragraph, the protagonists of the Workers' Defence Committee. The words of the Workers' Defence Committee are rightly written in capital letters, but the word "heroes" should be written in a small letter, because heroes should also be modest. I ask the Senate to adopt this resolution with these 3 amendments. This additional Senate meeting goes on this anniversary, because in 2 days it will be a round anniversary, the 40th fifth anniversary of the establishment of the NRA. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u47	Thank you very much, Senator. In this case, the word "thank you" has many meanings for your marshal. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Yes? Please, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski was the first to come forward. You're welcome. [[Senator Jan Maria Jackowski:Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Am I being heard? Because I'm having problems with my microphone.]] Mr. Senator, to say you're being heard is to use euphemism. Your voice sounds like nothing... [[Voice from the room: Okay, it's okay...]] I don't want to compare, because no comparison will be adequate, but you're being heard.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u48	Thank you so much for your kindness, Mr. Marshal. I have questions for you, Marshal Borusewicz. Well, first of all, in official documents, usually the historical date of the beginning of the Workers' Defence Committee is 29 September, the date of signing this declaration. The resolution is September 23rd. Mr. Marshal, as a witness to these events, would you like to explain this matter? And my second question. Because sometimes there are political disputes about who really was the founder or co-founder of the Workers' Defence Committee. As if the marshal, as a witness and participant in these events, would like to present his knowledge of the subject... Well, because this argument just...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u49	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but the questions are about the content of the resolution, not the resume. With great respect for the marshal... [[But, Mr. Marshal, there are no founders in the resolution...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u50	But I'll answer, Mr. Marshal, I'd be happy to answer. [[Yes, sir. Well, I think Marshal Borusewicz, as a historian, will answer the historian and everyone who is interested in our history.]] I play a double role: as a historian and as a participant. On 23 September, the NRA was formed. Of course, there were discussions on this subject earlier, there was an appeal by Jerzy Andrzejewski, but also conversations. I met this group from Warsaw. I was from Gdansk, from a faraway province. In Radom on September 13th. There was a whole group from Warsaw, those who came to the trial, I also arrived and then we met. It turns out that we operate in different places, but together. Then Chojecki, Mirek Chojecki, told me that they wanted to set up the Workers' Defense Committee, that security had already tracked them down, and that the money was increasingly needed, they were not able to gather among their friends, so we had to do some public gathering. And at the same time, this issue, to do it confidentially, because of their safety, is already out of date, because security has tracked them down. So that was before. What kind of environments? Well, just like Gdansk, different environments have started to take similar action on this issue. And they met in Ursus and Radom. So it's not like anyone can say I was first, etc. I went to Radom in July, a month after... and I didn't know what was going on in Warsaw. Well, I didn't know. And in Warsaw several circles have also taken up activities, so-called. Commandos, Boy Scouts. And then these environments met.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Can I ask you a question, Mr. Marshal?]] [[Voice from the room: No...]] But, Senator, we have questions now. There are two other senators. I mean... [[I'll wait, then.]] [[The voice from the room: Yeah, I was just...]] Okay, here you go, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u52	I don't know if the marshal understood the intention of my question. Because three people are usually referred to as initiative groups, i.e.: Jacek Kuroń, Adam Michnik and Antoni Macierewicz. There are times when disputes persist. But maybe I can clarify my question. I would ask for an answer, who, according to the Marshal's knowledge, as a witness to these events I'm taking advantage of this fact here. He was the inventor. Is it possible to identify the person who specifically was the inventor, or was it a collective work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u53	Mr. Senator, really, from both sides of our room are the sounds of senators' discontent, so they are not politically motivated. I want to assure each of our viewers and listeners that this is not... The subject is a resolution, not a scientific session on the history of the Workers' Defence Committee. [[Applause]] We are in the process of a resolution in which we are to commemorate this undoubtedly important, extremely important date in our history, as well as the participants of this event. But this is not a scientific session. Please, you ask Senator Mammoths a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to thank you in the first place for this resolution. But one thing is missing in this resolution: I miss the names of the members of the committee, as it was in the resolution on the 30th anniversary. And I would suggest that you accept this today. If Mr. Marshal makes amendments to this resolution, I will also report my amendment. But I wouldn't want to prolong. If there are no amendments, I'll withdraw mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u55	Mr. Senator... Oh, Mr. Senator Jackowski, I'd like to say that there will be a more scientific session in the Senate tomorrow at 10:00. Come on in. Although we will be discussing the influence of the NRA on our neighbours, because there was such an impact and it was visible to us... KOR was also created under the influence of Russian dissidents who were crashed. But as we watched the Russians be able to organize... This was a positive example for us. And certainly Charter 77 is an example of the impact of the NRAs on Czechoslovakia, that is clear. Tomorrow we'll talk about it, and I'd love to talk to the senator... and I'll answer all your questions. Just take into account that I was operating in a distant interior in Gdansk, so not everything that was happening in Warsaw, I know, not everything my colleagues told me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u56	Thank you. As I understand it, the senator is making an amendment. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u57	If there are no other amendments, I'll... [[I mean, I was just asking...]] I'll answer that right away. [[...is the marshal making amendments to this resolution.]] No, no. And I'm consciously... [[Well, I don't fold either, so...]] Good. Mr. Senator, I'm aware of that. I made it... because people's fates were different after that, some people were dead... Maybe we should have replaced them. This text differs from other texts. It's not like that, it's like that, it's like that, it's like that, and it's not like that, it's like that, it's like that, it's like that, it's like that, and it's like I was trying to show a little more background to the situation that led to the uprising. KOR, because it was a spontaneous effect.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have three questions for you, Marshal Borusewicz. The first question actually coincides with... I would ask you to explain why, if you didn't want to put any names in the resolution, the name of Václav Havel was here. In its resolution on the NRA I'm gonna admit it. It's a pretty exotic connotation. If we're going to write a historical resolution And it's hard to write about history when its participants are still present in public life. It should contain the facts. Less beletristics, more facts. The name of the founders of the KOR, its foundation in the form of the activities of the Black One, is not found here. [[Mr. Senator, I remind you this is the time to ask questions. You give, with all due respect, your opinion. That's what time is in the project discussion.]] Then I would ask... [[Now is the time for questions for the senator.]] First question: why is there no mention of the Black One? That event is generally considered to be the first event associated with the formation of the NRA. And why aren't there at least some names here? Maybe not all 38, as it was in the thirty-year resolution, but at least some. The second question is, I'd call it, this... It's in the resolution, but it's incomplete. 2 publications are listed here, which were closely related to the Committee for the Defence of Workers, and do not mention other publications, which are mentioned here by Senator Mamytkow, e.g. Publishing Houses of Voices. If you don't tell the whole truth, you tell the half-truth, which means you don't really tell the truth. Please answer the question why this has not been taken into account. It's either all the publishing houses or none.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u60	Mr. Senator, Havel wrote a powerless force. And that's what it was. We seemed powerless, but it was our strength. It also seemed that his name would not cause any controversy here. Czech, undoubtedly outstanding figure, literary, president, etc., etc. The question of other names always causes controversy. Of course, it was possible to name other co-workers of the NRA, but I thought we needed this resolution... The point was not to bring about controversy. The same is true of the Black One. The voice was a writing, it wasn't a publishing house. NEW was a publishing house. NEW has released several hundred books at a very high level at that time. There was also a record. It seemed impossible to publish literary writing at such a level in this environment, but it was a magazine where the most important Polish writers at that time published. Everything could not be mentioned in the resolution. I know the voice, I printed the voice in Gdansk. But it had to be limited here. The further into the forest, the more details. This resolution still has a page and a half. Any change would have to be here... We'd have to name some, then we'd have to name some. And then there would be questions about why the third ones weren't mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much to the marshal again. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm very short. I would just like to thank Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz for the initiative that commemorates those events, those heroes. Of course, the committee is about to decide on the final shape of the project... [[Voice from the room: No corrections.]] [[Voice out of the O.R.: Overruled.]] [[There are no corrections.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is all the more so thanks again to the marshal, and thank you especially for the fact that he, as the author of this resolution, has a special title to remind these events and these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u63	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that Senator Alexander Swed has made his speech to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I declare a recess until 4:15 p.m. when the senators will reconvene to vote. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 01 to 16 minutes 17]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u64	I'm reopening the session. I'm asking you to silence the conversation. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 7 and 8 October and the next one is due at the end of October. The agenda will be forwarded to you by electronic means. We return to the second agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 45th anniversary of the Committee for the Defence of Workers. I would like to remind you that a draft resolution has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voices from the room: Oh, Mrs. Marshal...]] [[Voices from the O.R.: He's on his way...]] We'll wait, Mrs. Marshal... Time for a hundred goes out like this for about 11 seconds. [[Voices from the room: Good time.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? This is one of the few sittings where most senators vote remotely, which worries us a little, but at the same time glad that the system works. [[And we should get raises.]] Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 94 in favour, no one opposed, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 45th anniversary of the establishment of the Committee for the Defence of Workers. [[Applause]] Allow me to thank Marshal Borusewicz for this noble task. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the act on compensation for service providers or economic operators in connection with the introduction of a state of emergency in the region of Podlasie Voivodeship and part of Lublin Voivodeship in 2021. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 492 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Marshal Maria Koc, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u65	Dear Marshal, High Senate! The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the meeting. The Commission commented on the amendments tabled For amendments to both the committees and the second readings. The Commission accepted all the amendments tabled. The Commission recommends jointly to vote on Amendments 1, 2, 8 and 10.13. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u66	Thank you very much, Marshal. Do the senators still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion the conclusions were made by the senators: Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Grzegorz Bierecki, Adam Szejnfeld, Marek Martynowski. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Note: Amendments 1, 2, 8 and 10 Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 2]] Amendment 3 extends the catalogue of beneficiaries to entrepreneurs who provide tourist transport activities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 52 for, 41 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] Amendment 4 extends the range of beneficiaries to entrepreneurs engaged in cultural, leisure or leisure activities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 Senators voted, 52 for, 42 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 4]] Amendment 5 extends the range of beneficiaries to traders selling retail food products or souvenirs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 54 for, 42 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 5]] Amendment 6 extends to the extent that compensation may also be granted to entities other than those indicated in the Act, if the reasons for this are justified. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 45 votes, 46 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 7 raises compensation to 80% the average monthly income of the applicant. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 53 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 9 deletes the provision providing for mandatory verification of the data contained in the proposal where the amount of compensation exceeds PLN 65 000. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes 43 against and 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 8]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Another Senator from the remote... Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Compensation Act for entities providing services or conducting economic activities in connection with the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of the Podlaskie Voivodeship and part of the Lublin Voivodeship in 2021. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 30th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the current agenda of the Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. I'd like a list, please. Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska begins.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you don't mind, my statement will be about the scandalous decision to immediately release Dr. Roman Szelemy's doctor and President Wałbrzych. You probably know her from national media. I am making this statement as one of the parliamentarians and together with the parliamentarians of the Wałbrzych land, because we cannot go indifferently with this shameful decision regarding the release of the doctor, the head of the hospital and at the same time President Wałbrzych, Dr. Roman Shelemej. You may not all know, but all the success and continuous development of the hospital is the result of the work, consequences and stubbornness of the entire team, which Dr. Roman Szelemej led over the years, a respected doctor, an outstanding specialist, a chief of the cardiology department, and for 36 years he has been associated with the Wałbrzych hospital. The decision taken against him will compromise the entire Management Board of the Lower Silesian Voivodeship. And I will remind only those of you senators who do not know that the Dolnośląskie Voivodeship Board is forming a coalition called. Partyless Self-Governmentians along with Law and Justice. Nor do you know that until recently, the voivodship board was behind Dr. Roman Szelemej's back and boasted of his success. The success of a well-developed hospital, functioning on a daily basis. You may also remember the model preparation by the Wałbrzych authorities, precisely in coordination with Dr. Roman Szelemej, the vaccination point in Wałbrzych, which has also become a model for other cities. All the results of Roman Szelemej's work are also appreciated by ordinary citizens. Their confidence confirms the results of the elections and the support still enjoyed by the president Not only in Wałbrzych, but also in the entire Wałbrzych agglomeration. Let me also remind you that in the last local elections, this doctor, and also President Wałbrzych, won in the first round with a score of over 84% voters' votes. As parliamentarians, we have no doubt that the release of this doctor and president is a gross, outrageous and at the same time shameful political act. For our President is a respectful and respectful man, and fear and terror in the weak. He's the last one who's most afraid of him. Therefore, I am acting on behalf of the parliamentarians of the land of Wałbrzych, but also of a whole crowd of Wałbrzychans, residents of the Wałbrzych district, as well as all those who write to us in recent days, citizens from actually all over Poland. And I want that voice to sound right here in the Senate. We protest against the vile attempts of primitive harassment of a respected and valued man, Dr. Roman Shelema. We are all shocked by the situation that has taken place in Wałbrzych in recent days, and we declare that we will not stop in our efforts to stop this absolute political PiS bastardship. Other parliamentarians, MEPs of Wałbrzych's land, Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Monika Wielichowska and Tomasz Semoniak, have also signed this statement in addition to me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u68	Thank you very much, Senator. You will now make a statement to Senator Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, I would like to inform you that the Sejm has decided to set up a special subcommittee for the examination of the senate pro-salvation project. Let me remind you that this is about children up to the age of 3. I'm very happy for you. What I'm about to say has nothing to do with it, but it's very important. I will raise another topic today, a topic related to the reduction of fixed education in schools, especially in primary schools, where this is particularly painful. My statement is addressed to Minister Czarnek. I want to start by saying that, unfortunately, we've been seeing a recent increase in coronavirus infection, a week to a week already about 30%. It is also clear that individual cases of infections have a double strength, which is a very, very unfavourable situation, especially as regards the weaker rate of vaccination in recent years. The Ministry of Education and Science points out that the more people will be vaccinated, the sooner we will achieve population resilience, and thus we will also be able to work stationary schools without any restrictions. That's a quote. But I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that the prospect of introducing restrictions raises concern among parents and pupils, the fear of re-launching compulsory remote science, also for students, which I would like to stress, vaccinated. It is therefore very likely that such an information policy of the government is ultimately not good for the promotion of vaccination. Students and parents today emphasize that remote science is much less effective than stationary science, for various reasons. Those who choose to vaccinate children are primarily thinking about maintaining their fixed education. Let me remind you that the promises that were presented on billboards and posters We vaccinate ourselves because we want to be together, we vaccinate ourselves because we want to go back to normal, we vaccinate ourselves because we miss our loved ones very often they refer to schools. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister about the possibility of making some adjustments in the implementing acts, adjustments to the provisions that will enable stationary schools in which they will be vaccinated, for example. over 70% students. In this way, those individual cases that may happen will not paralyze either the entire classes, or In some cases The whole school. As one of the initiators of the Senate's draft amendment to the Child Welfare Act under the age of 3 and the Basic Healthcare Act, concerning the certification of compulsory vaccinations as a mandatory condition for admission to nursery and kindergarten, I declare my support, but at the same time I note that it is highly likely that an amendment will be launched in the Seym, which will further simplify the process, in short, identify those who have been vaccinated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u70	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Bladder will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. My statement is addressed to Minister Adam Niedzielski, Minister of Health. The second statement is made in writing to Minister Przemysław Czarnek, Minister of Education and Science. Dear Minister, Nurses, nurses, and midwives with a master's degree in nursing and specialization, employed at the Provincial Hospital, joined my senator's office. Louis Perzyna in Kalisz, asking for help in solving their pay problems due to the recent wage regulations in force since 1 July 2021. These people feel very disadvantaged by the fact that in their opinion the most qualified nursing and obstetric staff, which should be included in Group VII with the lowest salary of PLN 5 000 478, was in Group VIII with the lowest salary of PLN 4 thousand 186. They feel like unnecessary expensive ballast, which was good, as he raised his qualifications in his own time, at the expense of his families and many sacrifices, with his own money. After many interviews, both with the above-mentioned professional group and the director of the hospital, where these people are employed, representatives of the hospital authority in Kalisz and several hospital directors in Poland who are struggling with similar problems, and who wish to resolve them legally and legally, there have been questions and doubts about which I would like to obtain answers from the Minister. I've got five of these questions. I'm just going to introduce one of them. Where an employee who is a member of Group VIII listed in the Annex to the basic salary law which, after 1 July 2021, has resolved the employment relationship with the employer and who was employed by the employer at 31 May 2021, the employer will enter into a new employment contract and, according to the documents provided, the qualifications required for the current post of employment justify the inclusion of such an employee, e.g. to Group VII, shall the new remuneration thus determined be taken into account up to the amount of the additional appropriations on the basis of which the National Health Fund determines the correction coefficients indicated in the General Conditions Regulation? And if so, will the employment cost of such an employee be reimbursed by the National Health Fund? Please give me an answer as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u72	Thank you very much, senator. Your statement will be made by Senator Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I address my statement to the Minister of Environment and Climate. The declaration concerns a promotional action which was launched in the State Forests. State Forests have been quite notorious lately. This is mainly due to the fact that they run a robbery forest economy. But the State Forests have decided to launch a promotional campaign. It is no coincidence that they have decided to commission a promotional action by a company which has so far been engaged in promoting the Justice Fund, associated with Zbigniew Ziobra, because it is well known that the State Forests are today filled by people connected with Zbigniew Ziobra and Solidarna Polska. Unfortunately, even this situation has led to compromise, because in the film promoting the State Forests there was a long-span bird, which is a species that does not exist only in Poland but also in Europe. It only proves that this company doesn't really know what it does. I would like to know to what extent, in which mode it has been chosen, how much this particular promotional film costs, what the State Forests have to spend on promotional expenditures, how much they spend on promoting their activities, what companies are currently employed by the management and what people are directly responsible for it. That's the first question. I would like to refer the second question to Minister Ziobra, the Attorney General. It's about energy. In recent years, we have been faced with a series of decisions that lead to huge losses in size. Power plant block in Ostrołęka A few billion zloty losses. Inoperative power block in Jaworzno 6 or 7 billion losses. The situation is dramatic. There is an omission and there are official errors that have been committed in Turów. We already know today that the daily penalty is half a million euros. We don't know how long this trial will last. I'd like to ask the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, if the prosecution has already taken action in connection with the crimes committed by high-level officials. At what stage are these proceedings at the moment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u74	Senator Krzysztof Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! My statement is addressed to Mr Mariusz Kaminski, Minister of the Interior. I would like to draw attention to the growing crisis in the police. We have all witnessed the use of violence against women strikers during the Women's Strike, the hitting of women with telescopic batons by police officers, the abuse of means of direct coercion, the abuse of gas. The last few months have also been a series of mysterious deaths during arrests by police officers. The last few months have been examples of unskillful detention of criminals, for example in Wrocław, where a policeman could not stop a car thief, who then almost drove a man with a cart, in Kołobrzeg, where at a gas station one of the car drivers trashed this station, and the cops were helpless, or finally in Gdańsk, where the car thief was shot with sharp ammo by police officers, but left. There are questions as to whether these are incidents or whether they are caused by a crisis in the police. I'm afraid it's because of the shortening of training time. From this point on, I would like to ask questions to the Minister, who should effectively supervise the police and should make their work more efficient. However, not only did trust in the police fall by 20%, but its efficiency is getting worse. The questions are simple. How long did vocational primary training last in 2015, and how long did basic training last in 2020? If it was shortened, why? Has the Minister made any decisions on this matter? Did the Minister try to stop the process of shortening training time? Are cops trained to break windows? Are all the cops taking lessons at the shooting range? If so, how often and how many rounds of ammunition are fired during training by every cop in a year? Finally, how many editions of training on the detention programme for dangerous criminals were carried out in 2015, and how many in 2020? And psychological tests, extremely important. How many police candidates were there in 2015? How many of these candidates didn't pass the psych test in the first approach? And the same question: how many candidates were for formation in 2020 and how many failed in the first approach of MultiSelect psychological tests? Finally, a question arises about the physical fitness of police officers. There's obviously a request for access to the gym so the cops can practice. One of the cops emailed me that private companies offered gym tickets, and he's a cop with years of internship who doesn't have access to the gym. The question is how many police stations have their own gyms. How does the Minister want to make the police more physically fit? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u76	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u77	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have three statements. The first statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Prime Minister, on 10 June I sent a statement to you asking for information on the total cost of buying Polish vaccines against COVID by 31 May 2021 and what is the average unit cost of one dose broken down into Pfizer, Modern, AstraZeneca and Johnson&Johnson preparations. On 3 September, I received an answer signed by the Deputy Minister of Health, which did not answer my question, but did not answer the questions asked and did not give me the relevant information. Therefore, I would like to ask you again in this case for a substantive answer, not a general comment. The second statement is addressed to the Marshal of the Sejm, Mrs Elizabeth Witek. On 18 June, I sent a statement to you by the Marshal on the safety of people entering and leaving the buildings of the Sejm Chancellery, i.e. the Polish Parliament, and access to them. To this day, I have not received an answer to this statement, and I am therefore making it again. My third statement is addressed to the Ombudsman. In view of the situation with regard to workers in the mining sector, I am thinking here about the mines and the prospect of their losing their livelihoods, I ask the Ombudsman to inform you whether the office and you have taken any action on this matter and whether you intend to take action on this matter, which concerns thousands of people, as an ombudsman of your mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u78	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Komorowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! I'd like to make a statement and direct it... to your marshal, I think. At the last Senate meeting, ahead of today's sitting, which is at the twenty-nineth Senate meeting where I participated remotely, for technical reasons I did not take part in the vote no. 30 on the commemorative resolution in connection with the beatification of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, the Primate of the Millennium. I would like to make a statement that I am wholeheartedly in favour of this resolution, and simply for technical reasons I am not recorded as taking part in this vote. If I were a part of it, of course I would vote in favour. I would like the record to show that I was, too, and I am in favour of this special resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u80	Thank you very much. This will be reflected in the transcript from this statement. The floor will be taken by Marshal Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u81	Honourable Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it is time for us in the Senate to make a firm request to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to present, and in an urgent, white book on the Turov case. What does the white book mean? Mr Marshal, High Izbo, this means that we expect Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to present all internal Of course not covered by the classification clauses, government documents will allow us to recreate the chronological course of events, specifically the most important facts. When the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, Mateusz Morawiecki, learned that the situation he is dealing with in Turów could result in this rather than another result? Exactly: when the relevant services, relevant experts, departments responsible for European policy, justice, economic policy, foreign affairs... When did all these departments take knowledge and inform the Prime Minister that Poland is in danger of massive financial penalties? In particular, Polish public opinion has the right to know why, at a time when Czech officials, the Czech government was preparing, entered the final stage of preparation of the action against Poland... Who in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs decided that on those days when the Czechs were preparing a powerful blow to the economic interests of the Polish state, Polish diplomats in the Czech Republic would run through the Czech Senate, giving a discount to their religious fanaticism and fighting abortion? Who will pay Poles who lose their money today because of the religious fanaticism of the Moravian government? Will this money be returned by Polish bishops? Will this money be returned to the Episcopate? I'm afraid not. But we need to know the names of politicians responsible for the Polish embassy fighting abortion in the Czech Republic, not fighting for Polish economic interests. The truth about this is contained in the documents of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There shouldn't be room for any over-interpretations, rumors or rumours here. Those decisions were made by specific people. These are specific people, a specific minister, a specific deputy minister ordered specific Polish diplomats to fight abortion in the Czech Republic, not to care about the money of Poles. It's a specific person. There's got to be a signature. There's got to be documents. And we demand, Prime Minister, the release of these documents. Because the Polish state has the right to know whether Mr Mateusz Morawiecki was informed about this matter. And if he knew, knowing fully what was threatening Poland, he did nothing about it or did very little. Or whether Mr Mateusz Morawiecki was cheated or not fully informed about the seriousness of the situation by his officials as Prime Minister of the Polish Government. To these questions Polish public opinion... It is not that the public simply has the right to know the answers. The government has a sacred duty to inform Poles, who is to blame for this tragic, disgraced Polish foreign policy, which we are losing to the Czech Republic, and huge costs which the Polish state, and therefore all its paying tax citizens must bear. It's time to stop dilettating in foreign policy. Time to end religious fanaticism in Polish foreign policy. It's time to start defending Polish interests.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u82	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Marcin Bosacki will be the last to speak... Oh, not the last one, though, because you're still Senator Kwiatkowski. Senator Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u83	Dear Marshal, My statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr. Adam Niedzielski. Minister, I would like to ask you to explain why the temporary hospital staff at the Poznań International Fair still have not received a payment granted to non-medical employees of a covid supplement of PLN 5 000 gross. The case has been going on for over three months. Payment of this supplement is not realized due to one quite trivial cause resulting perhaps from a mess. Well, in order for the NFZ and the hospital's management to pay this supplement, a certificate is needed. whether information from the Ministry about the level of covid security that was in force at this temporary hospital at the premises of the Poznań Fair. The Ministry's staff informed orally that this was the same degree as the temporary hospital unit, the Hospital of the Transfiguration of your Medical University in Poznań, but for more than 3 months for unknown reasons the Ministry has not sent this certificate in writing to Poznań. I would like to ask the Minister to clarify this matter, to make this information available, and thus that dozens of chamber workers working in a temporary hospital at the Poznań Fair receive an allowance of PLN 5 000. It is all the more urgent that, as we hear, the government administration is making an effort in connection with the fourth wave to reopen this temporary hospital. Such treatment of workers certainly does not encourage them to resume working in this hospital. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u84	Thank you very much. Senator Kwiatkowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I address my statement to the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Funds and regional policy. Yesterday's decision taken by the Court of Justice of the European Union in the Turova case shows a complete failure of the policy of building the international relations of the Polish government on the line with our neighbours as well as with the European institutions. Today we already know what is the specific account for the lack of the ability of responsible, wise representation of Polish interests in the international arena: 2 million 300 000 per day, 70 million PLN per month, 850 million PLN per year if this conflict cannot be resolved. As we already know today what is the specific cost associated with this inability to solve problems through consensus, dialogue and search for solutions acceptable to both parties, I have the following questions. My first question is to the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Finance: how do you want to finance the penalties imposed on us by the Court of Justice of the European Union? As we know, the state budget for next year has already been adopted by the government, in circulation, in August. I ask for detailed information on how the penalty will be financed, but not through information that it will not be spent from the state budget, because it will probably be deducted by the European Union from the funds that were supposed to come to Poland, only by informing what tasks the state as a government will limit. Where expenditure cuts will be: in health care, in education, in the security sector or in the area of other tasks? Please provide detailed information in this regard. I also ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and this is another recipient of my request, for information, based on what the President of the Council of Ministers, the head of the Polish government, said a few months ago that we had already agreed with the Czech Republic. Please provide detailed information on the negotiations with the Czech party and how they are real today. I also ask the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy, departmental ministry In fact, it is connected to another resort. For details, whether we are announcing today that we are not going to implement the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it may affect the negotiations that the Ministry is conducting regarding the approval of the National Plan for Reconstruction or, even more important document, the Partnership Agreement, the documents on the basis of which we are to obtain money, e.g. the Cohesion Policy for the period 2021 to 2027. I ask for detailed information from the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, which you have in your possession analyses, expertise and opinions showing whether the failure to comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union may or may not affect these negotiations. We must remember that Poland's relations with the European Union and relations with our neighbours since yesterday's decision of the Court of Justice of the EU have a certain financial importance, and that is the financial weight that will not be borne by the government, but will be borne by all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-21-senat-30-1.u86	Thank you very much, senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 30th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 30th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of meeting at 17 minutes 02]]
