ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u1	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, on May 16, early, at 66, Jerzy Wilk left. He was an activist of the "Solidarity," an activist of the "Citizen's Committee" in Elbląg, an activist of the "Centrum" Agreement and later of Law and Justice. He was a self-government officer for many terms, since 1994, in the Elbląg Council. He was vice-president, chairman of this council, finally president. Then, in the last - unfortunately - years of his life, he became a Member. He was less than six years old. He was a man deserving of Elbląg and deserved for the entire project, which is supposed to make Poland fairer and better developing. I'd like the High House to honor his memory. Eternal rest please give him Lord... ...and let eternal light shine upon him. May he rest in eternal peace. Amen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u2	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering into a quorum. I ask all of you to press any button to confirm your presence at the meeting. The country that you are here in the Seym, you can do it on these machines. We had a problem for a while, which is why it's late, but it's okay now, so I'm asking you from this new system... So it's a quorum? Nothing's coming up yet. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, take it easy. Some of them show up, some of them... Relax, really, I'll wait, we'll check, and if anything happens... Can you raise your hand up to whom it doesn't work? You're gonna come over here and check it out, okay? Pull out the card, put it back in and try to vote. Does it work now? It's working. Yes. Yes? Thank you very much, thank you. We'll see how it works, see if it's faster. 446 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. A proposal was submitted for the selection of a judge - member of the National Judicial Board, print No 1124. The opinion of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on this proposal was delivered to ladies and gentlemen in print No 1168. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of the matter. The College of the Institute of National Remembrance has submitted a proposal for the appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National, print No 1139. The opinion of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on this proposal was delivered to ladies and gentlemen in print No 1151. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of the matter. The committee responsible has submitted a report on Information on the Ombudsman's activities and on the status of respect for human and civil rights in 2020, print No 1167. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and compulsory restructuring and some other laws, print No 1164. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including the first reading of this draft law. The Legislative Commission submitted a draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure, print no. 1090. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft resolution on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the renewal of the news, print No 1171. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the urgent draft government law amending the Foreign Service Act, print No 1184. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Production and Trading of Explosives, Arms, Ammunition, Military or Police Purposes and Technology, print No 1149. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas, - amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and certain other laws, - amending the law on ownership transformations in the sugar industry, - amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family, - amending the Law on specific arrangements related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, - ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, drawn up at Kumamoto on 10 October 2013. The reports shall be printed in No 1150, No 1173, No 1183, No 1148, No 1169 and No 1181 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted reports on draft laws: - to change the name of the University of Technology and Natural Sciences. Jan and Jędrzej Śniadecki in Bydgoszcz, - about setting up the Zamość Academy. The reports shall be printed in no 1146 and 1147 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the reports: - ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, drawn up at Kumamoto on 10 October 2013, - to change the name of the University of Technology and Natural Sciences. Jan and Jędrzej Śniadecki in Bydgoszcz, - the establishment of the Zamość Academy, - on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the revival of the news. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors Convention unanimously gave its opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on actions taken in favour of seniors, in particular those aimed at improving the living conditions and social activity of older people, as requested by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the expression of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u3	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to Energy, Climate and State Assets - hour. 10.15, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 10.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Health-- hour. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 13.30, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 2.30 p.m., - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - immediately after the end of the votes, - the Territorial Government and Regional Policy - immediately after the end of the votes, - Justice and Human Rights - immediately after the end of the votes, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 15, - Health-- hour. 15, - Infrastructure - hour 17, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 17, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 17, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 19, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u4	Thank you very much. We have formal requests. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. One minute, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u5	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 I request a recess and a request to this meeting of the Prime Minister's Sejm or a person authorized by him to explain to the High House, Poles and Poles what the effects announced by the Prime Minister and the President of Poland will have on the economic situation of Polish families. The promotion of government television will not change the fact that every Polish woman and every Pole, whether working on the basis of a contract of employment or as an entrepreneur, will simply be burdened with so-called from the nearest time. Morawiecki's tax, which is an increased health contribution. Something like that. We speak as PSL, as Coalition Poland: Not this way, Prime Minister, dear. Today, it is not necessary to increase spending on health care, but to reform it. It's just a reduction. Without reform, unfortunately, this increase in resources will not do any good, because we have increased the expenditure by 60% and the queues are growing. We are an open club to make our health pact. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He healed our... Thank you. ...a health service. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u6	Thank you very much, sir. The Member has submitted a formal request for a break. I will put this motion to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 210 - for, 230 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal from Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I shall make a formal request to adjourn the sitting of the Sejm by tomorrow at noon. 12. There is no legal basis for the Sejm to be involved in the election of a judge of the National Judicial Council at this meeting. Right now, at this point in Strasbourg, the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights is investigating an illegal removal of a Judge from the previous National Judicial Council, and PiS is trying at the same time to push another political nomination to the National Court against the Polish Constitution, contrary to the resolution of the joined chambers of the Supreme Court, contrary to the ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court, contrary to the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but above all against the interests of Poles. After all, whether we get money from the European Union depends on compliance with the rule of law, and the election of judges to the Sejm by the Sejm is the trampling of this rule. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Stop scaring the hell out of the Member. Come to your senses! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u8	Thank you very much, Member. There's been a request for adjournment. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 204 - for, 229 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal request from Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left. You're welcome. Madam President, I would just like to remind you that, if we have already voted on the request for a break or a deferral, there can be no vote on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u9	Your marshal, I am not asking for a break, but I am addressing you directly to your marshal, so that your marshal may change his order and allow the presence of messengers and Members in the sitting room. It's completely unwarranted right now, for example. Only 10 Members and Members could enter from the 46-member left-wing club. Young people and children have returned to school. In public transport there is no longer even a regulation of places, not every second place, only 100% seats may be occupied. In committee meetings, we take second place. In this room, on the other hand, we have a microscopic representation. It has no justification, it makes a bad impression on Poles and Poles, as if we didn't want to be here. Please, I think that not only on behalf of the messengers and Members of the Left... Thank you, Member. This is not a formal conclusion. ...to change this arrangement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u10	Madame, I just wanted to say that this is not my idea. As you can see, I am increasing this every time, and I hope that soon we can all come to this room. Nor do you say that we are an exception, because we are not, Madam Member. When it comes to comparing the Sejm to a tram or to a bus, the real difference between the number of people on the hall and on the tram or on the bus is large. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Member, but thank you. I've accepted your suggestions, thank you very much, I've accepted them, and I'm sure the order will change soon. As the last formal proposal, I hope, Mr Kulesza, the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u11	Of course, Marshal, with a formal motion. The catalogue of formal applications is wide, I have a few left, so I would like to use point 5: I would like to ask you to move to the agenda. I'll give you a reason. On the agenda, there are parliamentary statements, and I very much want Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to take advantage of the opportunity to speak during the parliamentary statements and refer to his words that he hopes that the elections in Rzeszów will not be postponed again. The elections in Rzeszów were to take place on 9 May, and such elections were to take place in 104 municipalities throughout Poland. Only in one municipality, in Rzeszów, in one city, this election was postponed. And now there's information that they're to be postponed again. Why? Is it because Mr Grzegorz Braun, according to various surveys, has a better chance of entering the second tour... Ha, ha, ha! ...than a candidate for law and justice... Yeah, yeah. ...than the candidate for Solidarna Polska or the Agreement? Tell me who's winning there. This is the question to Prime Minister Morawiecki: What are you afraid of, Prime Minister? He's not gonna say which one. Gregory Braun? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u12	Mr President, you are abusing the formal proposal. This is not your candidate's campaign. First of all, this is not what the Seym is for. Exactly. This is a formal conclusion, and you know it. Don't argue with me. This isn't 3b, Marshal. Yeah, 'cause it's kindergarten. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and some other laws (Print No 1114). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u13	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to the High House a draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws contained in print No 1114. The amendments introduced by this law aim to implement two Directives: 2017/2455 and 2019/1995, i.e. the so-called. EU e-commerce package. The aim of the EU package is to seal VAT on Internet commerce and imports so-called. small consignments to the European Union. This is a project to stop the inflow of non-taxed parcels from third countries to European Union countries. Polish and EU companies are losing their jobs. Our entrepreneurs are not able to compete with companies from the Far East who sell the same goods as Polish entrepreneurs, but cheaper about VAT, which is often 1/4 of the price. The solutions proposed in the Act will not only lead to the sealing of the system, but will also facilitate the operation of honest companies, those that operate on the e-commerce market and are registered in the European Union. How exactly? They will reduce formalities and reduce costs associated with their payment of VAT in other countries. Thanks to the new procedures, traders trading on the Internet via sales platforms will not have to register separately for VAT purposes. Nor will they have to account for themselves in each country to which they send their goods separately. Instead, they will settle VAT using a single window in one place in their country of residence. And the country in which they operate will share their tax with the country to which the shipment goes. What will be the result? The increase in VAT budget revenue, the projected budgetary impact still this year, is almost PLN 0.5 billion, and in the following years it will amount to around 1 000 200 000. PLN per year. In presenting the above, I kindly ask the High House to adopt the draft law as proposed by the government. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u14	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the pleasure of presenting, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, a position on the draft law amending the Law on income tax on goods and services and on certain other laws in print No 1114. The need to amend the Act of 11 March 2004 on the tax on goods and services is due to the obligation to implement EU legislation on the so-called 'Union law' in the Polish legal order. e-commerce VAT package. The Member States of the European Union, including Poland, are obliged to implement in national tax legislation the solutions provided for in the e-commerce package aimed at overcoming barriers, including VAT sealing in cross-border e-commerce between traders and consumers. Directive 2006/112/EC, VAT Directive, which was adopted by the Council of the European Union in December 2017 and November 2019 are the core of this package. The main problem to address the directives being implemented is the unsatisfactory efficiency of VAT collection. This is due in particular to the fact that, to a large extent, such sales are carried out by a very large group of non-established entrepreneurs or permanent establishments in the European Union. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u16	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u17	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that, together with Mr Michał Grammar, we will be speaking, presenting the position of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club in this matter. I will not quote, like my predecessors, the Minister and Mr PiS, the legal basis for this, because it is the implementation of the European VAT Directive. It is important that VAT on mail order sales via electronic channels is collected in this respect. He is, that term... We keep the deadline for introducing VAT from 1 July 2021 if we proceed quickly. And in terms of proceding, the point is that this is happening a little slowly, because it was only in April that the finance department presented this project. About all these advantages: clearing, i.e. facilitating electronic clearing in one window, as well as reducing VAT costs, sharing VAT with entities or companies that trade, and increasing the competitiveness of countries, i.e. Poland, but also the countries of the European Union with a flood of cheap products, for which we sometimes have no guarantee or it is difficult to ask for this guarantee, to settle in one window... The Minister said something important about how much additional funds for the collection of VAT of e-commerce through this cross-border trade could affect the Polish budget, based on respect for 2018. I would say this: it affects about PLN 1100 million. This year, if we say it's going to be six months, it's going to be half the amount - it's about the basic rate. If we are discussing the basic rate in this Chamber, I would like to remind the Minister, the House of Law and Justice, that once, going to the elections five years ago, you said that you would lower the basic rate of VAT that it would not be 23% as in the transition crisis, only 22%. And for the last five years, the state has been collecting 8 billion PLN each year, out of our pockets, out of the pockets of those poor people who purchased. You didn't do a reduced VAT on the so-called. Baby clothes in this area, because that's when you saw that there was a problem with that. We can say that in this respect, on a competitive basis, those traders will be satisfied with this. We'll pay a billion. It shows what the influence will be. I'd like to ask the Minister how much the taxpayers will pay because you're talking about influence. Is that all, or do you estimate these amounts in relation to the purchase of goods from other countries? How high? And like I said, you're always trying to ruin something. In this respect, you will tell Mr Michał Gramatyk where you want to put your 5 gr in order to break the laws and regulations of the directive. That's how we shared our position. If you accept our amendments to be tabled, we will vote in favour of this law implementing e-commerce VAT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u18	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It is good that you shared, but Mr Grammar has only one minute. He'll make it. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u19	I'll try to fit in time. Honourable Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm just going to move one aspect. The European Union requires us to introduce new solutions, but it does not require you to attach this umbrella to the Great Brother, who you are so vigilant and so attentive about citizens and citizens of the Republic of Poland. Why in the designed article. 109b submission are you introducing another element of surveillance? Why do you need access to our ten-year transactions? Who and for what purpose will use this information? What is the directory of entities that will have the right to process these data? We do not question the importance of the solutions put in place, the need to introduce them. We only hope that we will hear the answers to the questions asked. By the way, I'm very surprised that a law that redefines the whole matter of Internet commerce and [[♪ The bell ♪]] introduces completely new solutions for transaction platforms, has not been included on the agenda of the Commission for Digitalization, Innovation and New Technologies of the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u20	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left, has the floor. Mr Darek Supper doesn't have a voice because he's not here. In that case, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland has the floor. I would like to invite you very warmly, sir. Sorry to keep you waiting. You're worth waiting for, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u21	Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law adapts Polish law to European Union legislation. The aim of the new solutions is to seal VAT and overcome barriers to cross-border e-commerce between traders and consumers. At present, a significant proportion of the sales of goods to consumers in the Union, both within the framework of trade between Member States and in respect of goods imported into the Union from third countries, are made via an electronic trading platform, portal or other similar measures. This is often done using warehouses located in the territory of the Union providing comprehensive logistics services. To a large extent, such sales are carried out by a very large group of businesses with no establishment or permanent establishment in the Union. The proposed amendments are intended to address the problem of low VAT collection efficiency and, at the same time, the relatively high administrative burden and costs on traders and the tax administration in relation to the settlement of the tax due on transactions and the verification of the correct accounting. Changes in practice are intended to benefit national sellers and reduce the tax fraud that has so far arisen. The amendments or solutions proposed in the Act concern, first, the uniform registration threshold throughout the Union. This package assumes that for mail order sales a uniform turnover threshold will be set for all Member States, up to which VAT can be cleared in the supplier's country and at the applicable rate. Secondly, they relate to VAT accounting in one declaration. Third, the elimination of import exemptions in the Union is intended to restore the competitive balance between suppliers in the Union and third country suppliers. Finally, fourthly, changes are being made in the case of online platforms. These are new obligations for online purchasing platforms between consumers from the Union and non-Union suppliers or suppliers who will offer imported goods from outside the Union. On the basis of new solutions that will start to apply on 1 July, the online platforms will take on a major role in sealing VAT rules within the Union in the transactions that are being carried out. Thus, these solutions are not only adapted to the requirements and to the solutions introduced under EU directives and procedures, but also have a significant impact on the volume of VAT resources. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u22	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek asked me to change the order. I've agreed to it. Welcome, sir. Please. Five minutes. The Left Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, at the moment, we are proceeding with a proposal for a revision of the law on value added tax and certain other laws. As usual, in recent times a question has been raised for the Polish government: Why is all this happening so late? I would just like to remind you that with regard to this draft law, this is the implementation of the directives of the Council of the European Union of 2017 and 2019 and the 2019 Regulation. All this could have been done much earlier. We have until 30 June 2021 to be clear: this change was also due to the COVID, because, as a Polish parliament, we would have to implement it by the end of last year. This is the first point: these are the financial resources that we really lose. There is no doubt that, with regard to issues relating to taxation of transactions outside the European Union, we have a very big problem with this. We also point out that, in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it has been decided to harmonise the rules on indirect taxes in order to ensure and establish the functioning of the internal market and to avoid distortions of competition. As far as distortions of competition are concerned, unfortunately, this proposal does not fully address this problem. This is best seen in the Ombudsman's letter of 15 April 2021. These arguments are hard to disagree with. Therefore, the question arises as to whether these comments could not be taken into account during the process, because these are very important matters, important issues, and each of us knows that when he bought something through Internet portals, he often bought it from a Polish company, but the goods came from China and was tax-free, i.e. 23%. cheaper than goods on the Polish market. In addition, there is a question of the control of this whole system. I think this should also be examined during the debate on this bill. If the data relating to goods outside the European Union were subject to customs control of 1% postal consignments and 4% courier shipments are true, so we can imagine the scale of the problem that we are dealing with here. So, in turn, this is about strengthening the customs-treasure services, so that these checks are actually more intensive. Of course, there is also a question of VAT taxation for all entrepreneurs who carry out this type of activity, whether these online platforms are registered in the European Union, in Poland or registered outside the European Union. Indeed, online shops cooperating with Asian operators have many customers who, in short, do not pay VAT, so it is difficult to say It's about competitiveness. On the other hand, I think - and the Left Club points out that this project is probably also the basis for discussing the tax system in Poland at all. The truth is that VAT was increased to 23% in 2010 but only for a transitional period, and this transitional period has been ongoing - i.e. the time of the Platform's and PSL's governments as well as PiS' governments - for 11 years now. Let us just remind you that an increase in this tax means a burden on everyone who earns the least, for 80% Poles who have average income. Therefore, 1% this is 7 billion PLN, which do not remain in the pockets of Poles and Poles, but remain in the whole system. So I think this is also an opportunity to consider whether these indirect taxes should have such a great share in the (Ring) state budget, or whether we should definitely aim to return to the rate 22% , and perhaps - establish a lower. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u24	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Wheel of the Parliamentary Confederation. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u25	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation of sealing the VAT system is not so one-dimensional. There is another side to this coin, which is called: Polish consumers, citizens who shop online. On the one hand, I understand: we have a VAT system imposed by the European Union, a minimum rate of 15%. Of course, our government decided that 15% It's not enough, it's gotta be 22%. , and preferably 23% - so temporarily, temporarily. We also have a duty. There is also a system in which you can buy electronics, e.g. a mobile phone, from China, bypassing this VAT, this duty. We know very well - on these pages, in connection with electronics auctions - that the packages are so marked, so transported: by France, by Hamburg, that it can be avoided that the customs officer will keep this package and add VAT and customs duties. And Poles use this option massly. It is unfavorable for Polish entrepreneurs who are engaged in the import of various things, among others. electronics, selling it in Poland. Since it is more profitable to buy such a telephone from China, directly, without VAT, without duty, why pay for the margin of the Polish distributor? And that's what makes you want to seal the system. But be aware of how this will affect the consumer: Poles now, after sealing this system, will not be able to use this gate, which they used so massively, and thus for many Poles who have so far been shopping on Chinese portals, such purchases will be more expensive, the prices of these products will be increased accordingly: VAT, very often also customs. So this stick has two ends. Therefore, it should be considered whether taxes are a good solution or whether we need to have this high VAT. If high VAT makes it worthwhile to conspire to deliver online purchases in such a way as to avoid this VAT, perhaps it would be good to consider whether or not this VAT would simply be reduced. It cannot be completely eliminated because you have agreed to European VAT rules, but it can be reduced to 15%. Perhaps this would be better than playing cat and mouse, constantly racing about patching up a system that entrepreneurs - if that's what you can call this zone, a gray zone - avoid so that citizens, i.e. we all, our neighbors, our friends, can buy things cheaply abroad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u27	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 a position on the government draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and on certain other laws included in print No 1114. Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment is so-called. e-commerce VAT package. It aims to implement the provisions of Directive 2017/2455 of the Council of the European Union and Directive 2019/1995 of the Council of the European Union. The aim of these solutions is to seal the VAT system in cross-border e-commerce between traders and consumers. In particular, it is about regulating the sale of goods to consumers in the European Union in the framework of trade between Member States, as well as for goods imported into the Union from third countries purchased via the Internet. The rules apply to all Community and non-Community traders who sell goods and services electronically to natural persons in the European Union irrespective of the electronic sales channel. The most important changes to these provisions include: Introducing a defined concept of intra-Community distance selling of goods, extending and modifying the special scheme for telecommunications services, broadcasting services or electronically supplied services, defining the concept of distance selling of goods imported from third countries, extending simplification in the form of so-called. a small one-stop shop for distance sales of goods imported from third countries in consignments of an actual value not exceeding EUR 150 for EU consumers, so-called. import they stop shop, introduce in cases where this does not apply a simplified procedure for declaring and deferring tax payments on imports of goods in consignments of a value not exceeding EUR 150, introduce a tax exemption on goods and services for imports of goods in consignments of a value not exceeding EUR 150 if this tax is declared and settled in the procedure I have just mentioned. The biggest changes will be affected by electronic platforms which, by intermediary sales to European Union consumers, can be considered as a participant in the transaction. As a result, they will be obliged to collect and settle VAT in the cases indicated. It is important for EU entrepreneurs to harmonise the 10 000 threshold across the European Union. the euro, after which the place of VAT will change. Substantial changes also apply to sellers outside the European Union whose goods will be more expensive for VAT, basically from the first zloty. The clear consequence of the proposed measures will be an increase in tax revenue. According to EU officials, this could be around EUR 7 billion throughout the Community. The Minister was just talking about the possibility that this could be about PLN 1 billion for our country, for additional revenue to the budget. Of course, this is good information on the one hand, but it is also worth remembering that it will affect prices, i.e. government proposals will de facto lead to price increases in parts of transactions made electronically by consumers. However, attention should be paid to the fact that, from the point of view of maintaining a level playing field in the market, it is extremely important for a participant to move within the same rules. The development of e-commerce has created disparities between different actors. Those companies that operate outside the European Union do not fall within the scope of regulation or even circumvent regulations, benefit from gaps, do not apply the same rules. This made them in a much better position than EU companies. Of course, this creates a distortion of competitiveness. Community companies are in a worse position and this is damaging the EU economy as a whole. These rules therefore seem to be correct, but the government has not escaped a certain error in proposing excessive obligations to document transactions. It introduces a condition for the VIS to be regarded as a supply carried out in the territory of a Member State, to terminate the dispatch or transport of goods to the purchaser where the goods are in the territory of the country at the time of their dispatch or transport. The condition is to present a series of evidence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, we feel that this obligation is too far-reaching, as the directive itself imposes an obligation to register transactions. According to Poland 2050 there is no need to further complicate the lives of our entrepreneurs, but on the contrary - they need to be facilitated. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 I request that the project be submitted to the committee in order to find better solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u28	Thank you, sir. Let's move on to asking questions. Set the time limit - 1 minute. I would ask that Mrs Marta Vistula speak from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act aims to improve the competitiveness of entrepreneurs. Of course, the bill comes into force at the last minute - from 1 July. This competitiveness, ladies and gentlemen, is to be based on the introduction of VAT on any transaction that will take place on the Internet. Improving competitiveness, ladies and gentlemen, is an additional PLN 1 billion. Who's gonna pay for this? The consumer. As if that were not enough, ladies and gentlemen, on every occasion, the government is introducing laws that give us the opportunity to monitor citizens. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 109b records shall be entered which shall allow for the collection of all information, any data relating to who, what and how much he buys on the Internet. I said, why do you need that information? Are you going to take advantage of that, for example. Some gentleman bought himself an aphrodisiac. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or a pill for potency? Why do you need that kind of information? These are sensitive data. You shouldn't have them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Discussion of this bill is a good opportunity to draw attention to our Polish, national taxes. Crazy inflation, rising prices, including food prices, is a fact. A visit to a disclaimer, supermarket or neighborhood store on the occasion of weekly shopping for many consumers - Poles, Poles, families involves spending several hundred zlotys. The standard becomes that after such shopping everyone checks the receipt and wonders what he spent so much money on. Therefore, Minister, I have a question. When can Poles expect tax cuts? When will you introduce the announced reduction in VAT from 23% to 22% for many years? Poles want to work, earn decently and pay low taxes. They want it here and now. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They don't want vague promises about changes in order. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u33	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Let's try to put it all together in one statement. At the beginning of the COVID epidemic, on the occasion of the first COVID shield, you wanted to introduce a recipe that would give access to all the phones and all the data on them. In the e-TOLL Act, i.e. the electronic toll for the road we recently voted on, you have pushed through a recipe that gives you access to all the location data from all the smartphones on which the application will be installed. In the agricultural census and census laws, you have pushed through the provision that operators must give you all telephone numbers along with all PESEL numbers and TERYT codes. We do not know what this is for, because you do not answer the question about the purpose of processing this data. We finally have an art. 109b, according to which for 10 years each operator of an electronic platform will have to keep all data relating to transactions carried out both within [[♪ The bell ♪]] a common economic area as well as outside the common economic area and make it available for the Central Register of Taxation Data. Who will have access to them, and for what purpose? Who's gonna process them? How? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u35	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Under the provisions of the European Union, the bill we are discussing today was to enter into force on 1 January 2021. On that day Poland should have been ready to introduce all regulations and should have had all the implementing mechanisms necessary to implement them. By the pandemic, the European Union postponed the date of entry into force of the legislation to 1 July 2021. I would like to ask where was the government, where was the Prime Minister from 2017, when the European Union adopted this solution. Why is it not done to prepare for it and implement the relevant technical regulations and solutions? Either the government will introduce a number of necessary regulations illegally, without the adoption of laws, or Poland will be ready to put into practice the necessary regulations and mechanisms with an annual or longer delay (the bell). I ask you kindly to answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u36	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! To what Mr Grammar was talking about, I would add two more types of surveillance: the IOWISZ system bought with funds from the Justice Fund and the transmission of sensitive data to the Polish Post Office, which should be protected, for the purpose of organising envelope elections. This is an outrage. I would like to ask: Have you taken any action since 2015 to reduce the basic VAT rate to 22%? The countries of the European Union - praise each other here - among others. Germany... You should have... ...have a base rate of 16%. When will we adapt to the countries of the European Union in this regard? My previous speakers have already talked about inflation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Second thing. The budget is also affected by customs revenue. What have you done to ensure that as much money as possible from the customs duty paid to us in the country is paid into the budget? How much are we going to pay for the settlement, the seal, the e-commerce that this VAT directive is talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, On 4 May the Sejm approved the President's ratification of the European Union's own resources decision and sent the bill to the Senate. These own resources, i.e. the European Union's income, will consist, among others. from customs duties. Member States are expected to transfer 75% here. those customs duties and 25% It's gonna be service costs. And I'm asking for an answer now. The second source is a revised VAT-based own resource with a simplified methodology for calculating the amount of the levy. It is about VAT with simplified methodology for calculating the amount of the fee. I would very much ask the Minister if you are unable to answer a written answer, which means that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the third thing about recycling plastic waste. I kindly ask you to answer in writing, as this would be the case with regard to Poland's own contributions to the budget of the European Union, based on 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u40	Thank you very much. Andrzej Costowniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, literally two or three short questions. At first, one reminder. We all know that these rules are being implemented. As we are hearing now, as we can see from the statements of our colleagues in the opposition, it seems that they find it difficult for them to agree with these rules, although they are aware that they are being implemented, because in their justifications to the club speeches they spoke about it. But I think I'm gonna leave that with no more comment. Minister! Two questions. One is the influence that has so far been lost and the other is the reconstruction of this market for the coming years. We all know very well that this is a highly developing market. Online transactions are in fact becoming the basis of trade, especially the small one. Question: "If we had not introduced such solutions in the coming years, how would they have suffered?" [[♪ The bell ♪]] both the Polish market and the European market? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u42	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Ewa Cicholska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u43	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The amendment of the draft act on value added tax and certain other provisions is a good solution for sealing the VAT system. I have listened attentively to the club's opinions and I have a question to the Minister: What impact will the tax system have on the introduction of European directives and, in the long term, if this will increase the impact on the state budget as far as resources are concerned, and what impact will it have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u45	Beautiful, Mr. Marshal. Congratulations. I have to say, not all marshals can express this particularness as well as your marshal. They're learning slowly, so it's going in the right direction. In the right direction, that's how I feel about it. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. The first concerns what I mentioned in my speech, in which I presented the position of my parliamentary circle. Well, we have the impression that this new WSTO procedure was much more bureaucratic than an intra-Community supply of goods. Question: "Why is this mechanism, which in our view - not only in our opinion, but also in our opinion, I think, many specialists, experts - working in WDT, not used in this new WSTO procedure?" And second question: For what reason do we have a proposal of 10 years of retention of transaction data? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u47	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! The implementation of these measures will contribute both to increasing competitiveness within the Union as well as to increasing the competitiveness of EU companies vis-à-vis third-country companies. This will also reduce implementation costs related to the whole VAT procedure. So it can be said that the law will contribute to increasing revenue to the budget, and that it will contribute to the state budget, which is the recipient of these goods, which is a fundamental issue. So what are the estimates as to the amount of the amounts that could be used to fund the (Bell) budget of the Polish State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u48	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Marek Rutka, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since 1990 Renawa housing cooperative in Kwidzyn has been in operation. Over 34 buildings have been built over 30 years, and over 2,000 have been inhabited. families. Question: "How many apartments does a rental agency have in its portfolio?" That's not the point. That will be the next point, Mr. President, about the social lease agencies. But it's connected to it, by all means. However, it may be worth considering whether it is worth creating more creations or whether it is better to develop housing cooperatives. Thank you. [[Applause]] That's not the point. Next thing you know, you're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u50	Thank you very much. Members and Members can just surprise us sometimes. Ha, ha, ha! Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. And I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Jan Sarnowski to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start with the first questions that have emerged: Who will pay this over 1 billion a year? First of all, it is a question of the price policy of large companies and sellers mainly from the Far East, who so far have 23% They didn't pay VAT. On the other hand, it was on this VAT saver that they reduced their price and shared it with the consumer. Thus, in order to remain competitive against entities operating on the Polish market, they will have to take over this tax to pay, so only to a minimum it will hit the Polish buyer. To answer the question about surveillance, access to information, transaction statements, I would like to highlight two things. Firstly, the regulations we are introducing are entirely based on EU rules and will work in Poland exactly the same way as in other countries in the Community. The proposal itself appeared at the request of Germany, while Poland did not oppose the implementation of this information umbrella because it was done at EU level in a very safe way. Information on transactions will be stored by entrepreneurs and made available, on request, to tax administrations from Poland or other countries of the European Union, which will examine, of course, where necessary, whether the trader has actually carried out intra-EU transactions. What is very important is that there will be no information about individual consumers; there will only be information about sellers and the volume of their transactions. Are we implementing these rules late? We implement them on time. We have joined this work under very difficult COVID conditions. The technical assumptions for the project were only made available by the European Commission at the end of 2019 in the last months of this year. The project was ready and consulted in October last year, i.e. practically at the summit of the second wave of COVID and despite the third wave, the rules went to the Council of Ministers in April and were adopted by it and could be held at the session of the Sejm at the previous meeting. However, even considering them now does not mean that this project is at risk and that it will be implemented after time. With regard to the question of reducing VAT from 23% to 22%, I will explain that the rules for this step are laid down in statutory tools and, together with the improved economic situation, the rate will automatically fall from 23% to 22%. On the other hand, I would like to emphasise that the COVID Summit itself, in July 2020, saw a reform of the VAT rates, the implementation of a new matrix, which significantly reduced the tax on many first-time goods: bread, fruit, even baby diapers. So that VAT is already noticeably lower on these most important issues. As regards Mrs Skowronska's question, I would like to clarify that VAT in Germany is not 16% , and 19%. VAT rates in Poland and Germany are the result of these countries' tax policies and, as VAT in Germany is lower by 3 percentage points, e.g. CIT is 15% , and in Poland for as much as 93% taxpayers - only 9%. For those producing goods in Poland and registered it is even lower, it is 5% So it's not a third, but three times lower than in Germany. As far as customs matters are concerned, they remain at the total margin here, as also the revenue from customs duties goes to the vast majority of the EU budget and not to the Polish budget. Hence, this is not the subject of this debate. As far as the impact of these solutions on the Polish tax system and on the state of public finances is concerned, as I mentioned to you, only this year an additional 0.5 billion funds in the budget were downloaded almost 100% from large portals, far-eastern corporations, which so far earned on unpaid tax in Poland - annually around 1.2 billion. Now Polish entrepreneurs will benefit most, those who had to compete with large producers from the Far East - who did not pay this tax - and who could not compete with entities selling exactly the same goods, but cheaper by a quarter. This problem will be significantly reduced as of 1 July. So that this is very good information for Polish entrepreneurs and also fulfilling their demands, because many voices from the market were sent to the Ministry of Finance so that we would not be late with this implementation, but so far there is no such threat. We will answer other questions in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u52	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm should refer the Government's draft law on the amendment of the law on taxation on goods and services and certain other laws, contained in print No 1114, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of a report enabling it to be examined at the current sitting of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and some other laws (print No. 1070). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Minister Anna Kornecka, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Council of Ministers shall present to the High House a draft law which is part of the regulation which forms a market part of the housing package. It is a draft law on amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and some other laws which introduces social rental agencies, called SAN, into Polish legal trade. The social leasing agencies are implementing a model of cooperation consisting of mediation between housing owners and tenants who meet the economic and social criteria set by the municipality. This solution will be an additional instrument for municipalities, which aims to increase the set of housing policy tools, and for medium- and low-income people it will be an additional way to meet housing needs. An additional argument for the implementation of SAN into the Polish legal order is the current situation related to the pandemic, which also damaged the functioning of the housing market for rent. According to various estimates, there are 600 000 in this market. up to 1.2 million apartments in Poland. Due to the absence on the market of rentals of students or employees and due to restrictions that affected foreign workers working in Poland, some of the apartment owners lost their tenants. SAN provides in this situation the possibility to use existing housing within the framework of municipal housing policy, ensuring that income sources are maintained. The draft law includes the definition of a social rental agency and regulations which define the rules for concluding contracts between individual participants implementing the SAN model, i.e. the commune, the social rental agency, the owner of the apartment and the tenant. In addition, the Act sets out the scope of the resolution in which the municipality determines inter alia. criteria for persons who will be able to apply for an apartment in SAN. Entities carrying out tasks as SAN, such as associations, foundations or social cooperatives, will cooperate with the municipality on the basis of the provisions of the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. The social leasing agencies will also be municipal companies, which will make use of the potential of existing structures, e.g. TBS, SIM or day-to-day management of municipal housing. In order to encourage housing owners to lease their premises to rental agencies, the project proposes tax exemptions for the rental income for SAN. As a result of the guarantee of regular payment of rent and the reduction of social charges, rental agencies are expected to be able to negotiate rent rates below 20% of rent rates. In order to further reduce the rents of SAN tenants, the proposed law introduces the possibility of using the rent subsidies that are available in the program The amount of these payments depends on the level of market prices at the location and on the number of persons in the household. As part of the model of operation of SAN, it is envisaged that the municipalities will have the task of adopting a resolution setting out the criteria for applying for an agreement with SAN and signing a cooperation agreement with SAN. SAN's task will be to lease the apartment on the market and conclude a contract with tenants designated by the municipality. It will also be possible for SAN to coordinate the renovation of the premises in exchange for a temporary reduction in the rental or temporary cessation of its collection. Given the experience of running SAN through the Habitat for Humanity Poland Foundation and the City Office of Najmu in Poznań, one can see the significant potential of the SAN model. It is fully visible when with the rental service customers SAN can also count on social services, such as helping to apply for benefits or support in the search for work. In addition, the Poznań experience indicates that leasing mediation was of great interest not only from potential tenants but also from apartment owners, while preliminary concerns about irregular payment of rent by tenants were unjustified. This project, which is the result of work involving experienced actors involved in the housing sector and local government units, has been particularly interested by local authorities, who face various challenges in housing and see the possibility of solving at least part of the problems of housing policy in the SAN formula. Of course, this instrument cannot be regarded as a basic tool for implementing local housing policies, but it is a complement to other instruments already proposed in the first housing package, such as: funding for municipal or social construction. In view of the benefits presented from the implementation of the SAN model into a set of instruments allowing municipal policies to be implemented, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I bring on behalf of the Council of Ministers a positive opinion on the draft law amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws by the High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u54	But you did it really well. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm doing the best I can. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mrs Anna Paluch, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u55	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Improving the availability of low- and medium-income housing, meeting the housing needs of local communities, mitigating the effects of the COVID-19 epidemic on the rental market, making better use of the existing housing stock are the main objectives pursued by the adoption of the bill presented by the Minister of Justice a moment ago. The project complements other government activities aimed at the development of the municipal and social housing sector. High Izbo! Due to the epidemic that we have been experiencing for more than a year, the demand for long-term rental has fallen very seriously. Students learn remotely, and seasonal workers from across the eastern border in a large part returned to their homes and do not need to rent apartments in Poland. On the other hand, short-term rental has radically decreased due to restrictions on tourism. On the market there is a decrease in rent rates and an increase in the number of offers for the sale of apartments. This may indicate that apartments are sold for rentals purchased on credit. Such loans cannot be repaid by the landlords due to the stagnation in the rental market. On the other hand, very many people with low and medium incomes cannot afford to rent apartments on market terms, and their own apartment is the basis for an active life of a person who wants to work, to start a family, to live, to live normally. High Izbo! A cure for these problems may turn out to be social rental agencies, so-called. SAN, to which the Act is pending today. These are institutions that rent apartments on the commercial market for the purpose of renting them out or sub-renting them to individuals with low incomes. SAN operate in Western Europe: Belgium, France or the United Kingdom. Social rental agencies, especially in view of the oversupply of rental apartments, can negotiate reductions in rent rates by renting apartments for a longer period. Each owner of the apartment pays more continuously for a slightly lower rate to rent an apartment than, in colloquially speaking, to deal with and solve contracts. I think it's obvious. But thanks to this and by providing public support, housing with lower rents could be available to people with too low income to rent apartments on market terms. This solution also counteracts the ghettoization of cities, because in one space, in close proximity, people with diverse income, origin, and life situation live in the neighbourhood thanks to these solutions. This is always a chance to build a rich, better, more coherent urban tissue. High Izbo! This draft law introduces a new chapter 3a to the Act of 26 October 1995 on certain forms of housing promotion. In addition, the project amends nine other laws. The legal form of the social leasing agency shall be as laid down in Article. Article 22 (2) (b) 2 - limited liability company or public limited liability company in which the municipality or municipalities have more than 50% votes at a meeting of shareholders or at a general meeting, a foundation, an association or a social cooperative. In order for SAN to be able to operate in the municipality, it is necessary for the municipality to conclude an agreement with SAN for a period of 5 years, which determines the number of dwellings or single-family dwellings, the principles of co-financing by the municipality of activities, reporting rules, the distribution of liability for possible outstanding debts and other necessary elements. The agreements between the municipality or municipalities and SAN can be extended for further periods of five years. The project includes proposals for exemption from income taxes for owners of premises leased to social rental agencies, as well as exemption from VAT. This should be an instrument that encourages housing owners to use it. The tenants of the premises of SAN, fulfilling the statutory income criteria, will be able to apply for rent subsidies, as amended by the Law of 20 July 2018 on State aid for the payment of housing expenses in the first years of the lease of the apartment. These changes are contained in Article. Ten projects. High Izbo! This draft law pursues economic objectives in the area of the housing market for rent, but also social objectives by increasing the housing offer for persons [[♪ The bell ♪]] on low incomes, creating a new instrument of impact, implementation of housing policy by the municipalities, therefore my club, Law and Justice, is for immediate accession to the urgent work on this project in the Committee on Infrastructure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u56	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Sibińska. And I am very sorry that I misjudged your name.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u57	It's okay, it's a common mistake. It's just what it says. I'll get your attention. But I didn't want to do it. I'm sorry. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as housing is concerned, we have experienced several foretold revolutions during the PiS regime, from which little has come. We've had a lot of changes in legislation, we've had ministers who have changed, they've been in charge of this sector, and lately even the Prime Minister himself admitted on New Lad that unfortunately it didn't work out. Oh, I don't think you understood the Prime Minister's statement. Once, at a committee meeting, I promised the Minister that we would help and support any good idea. And that's what we're gonna do. About the idea of the Sans... Okay, the idea is good, but of course we would like to talk more about it and perhaps suggest further solutions. As I said, the idea of social leasing agencies is an element of social economics involving non-governmental organisations, which can lead to the fact that indeed, on the one hand, those who have housing in excess and want to be guaranteed good conditions for renting these apartments will be exempt from taxes and their interests will be secured. On the other hand, we can operate these apartments and solve many housing problems in individual municipalities. And it's okay here, but whether or not the money we're talking about should be paid for rent payments, shouldn't be redirected to the municipalities, because it's the municipalities that will guarantee that SANs will work, it's the municipalities that have an impact on the management of tenants to rent apartments and it's the municipalities in the last resort, according to the provisions of the bill, that cover any unpaid fees, etc. So the question to the Minister is, shouldn't we really go in that direction? On the other hand, I would also like to ask the Minister at this point about the housing policy if you are storming with ideas that arise from the New Deal, for example, that we will allow houses to be built up to 70 m2. It's irresponsible because, you know, we've been through this before. I remember from old times such regulations, which provided that the house could not have more than 220 m Minister! You are also announcing a reform of spatial planning. How does that fit into all this? I'm sure we won't let that happen. Please bear in mind that allowing such regulations will lead to an absolute disruption of spatial governance, to the self-confidence of construction, to the fact that it will grow in an absolutely uncontrollable manner. It's gonna be dangerous. As I go a little further from the subject, it is necessary to point out today that if we are talking about housing policy, it must make sense and everything must be logical. So, as I said at the beginning, yes, the social rental agencies, but on the other hand, let's not tie them up and not write down that it's just a community that has a preference to direct people to rent apartments. If she's called up, she'll be quite independent, but let her have a guarantee. not municipalities, but countries, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If something happens, it'll be an opportunity to use the Dollar Fund. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I have the honour to present to the High House our position on the draft law amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws contained in print No 1070. Unfortunately, the pandemic period is a period of some inhibition in the housing market. The work of remote, remote studios, the lack of more tourist traffic caused that much less people rent apartments today. Many apartments are empty, not to mention that almost 2 million apartments are missing in Poland. The aim of the projector is therefore to use the oversupply of housing in the market for social rent. The Act introduces a legal model of mediation between housing owners and natural persons who want to rent apartments and who cannot afford to rent apartments on the commercial market. The solution to this problem is, according to the government, the Social Agency for the Nation, in short, SAN. The agency is supposed to be a panacea to solve the problem of oversupply of apartments for rent. The aim of the Social Agency Najmu is to acquire apartments on the market mainly from individuals. SAN offers apartment owners a long lease with a guarantee of rent, which will reduce the rate of rent by up to 20% as a result of negotiations, as shown by Western examples, as well as by reducing VAT. These apartments will then be rented to those in need. SAN is intended to be a tenant of residential premises or residential buildings from their owners and then a tenant of an apartment designated by the municipality to tenants, provided that they meet the criteria set out in the decision of the municipality. SAN will be able to set up a company with majority participation of the municipality, non-governmental organisation, foundation, association or social cooperative as a public benefit entity. The entire income of SAN pursuant to the bill is to be allocated to statutory activities. The Act sets out the rules for the termination and conclusion of contracts between SAN and the owners of leased premises. As an incentive to enter the owners of the dwellings into this system, the legislator, as I said earlier, provided for them to exempt these operations from VAT. The tenants of the housing units under the responsibility of the Social Housing Agency will be able to benefit from the rent subsidies under the government's scheme of living at the start. The proposed solutions may be an alternative to municipal construction, but not entirely. My parliamentary club welcomes the bill presented, especially when, Minister, the government draws the model from the left-wing actions that take place in Poznań, because there has already been a similar institution. That's where a similar system has been operating for 3 years at the City Bureau of Najmu. The office offers the maximum rent to owners of 1200 PLN gross regardless of the area of the apartment. The tenant pays 40%. the value of the rent, while after the amendment of the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the rent was further reduced. However, the lease was stopped due to the fact that first contracts were institutional and concluded for a fixed period and, after the change of law, became contracts for an indefinite period, which led to a loss of interest on the part of the owners. After the entry into force of the SAN Act, the lease may again begin, as indicated by the great interest of the owners of the housing estates. Today, apartment owners avoid renting apartments to mothers with small children with disabilities due to the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants. They're afraid that in the event of payment problems they won't be able to get people out of the premises. If the intermediary is the Social Agency for the Nest, this risk will not be present, especially when the participation of the municipality is assured, as the agency will take the burden on itself. As the financial data of the City Nest Office in Poznań show, the rent arrears under this system are very low. We hope that the creation of the Social Agency for Najmu will also in some way help foreigners who come to us from abroad permanently and become members of our community, so they should have the right to benefit from urban programs and therefore also from the offer of SAN. I would like to say that the solution to the housing problem of people who cannot afford to pay commercial rent is very much at the heart of the Left. E.g. That is why we have sought to ensure that the National Reconstruction Plan contains provisions for 75 000. apartments for rent. Today's law will allow for a reduction in rent, but it also saves in some way the people who have purchased apartments that have become part of their property today. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I request that this project (the bell) be forwarded to the Infrastructure Committee for further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u60	Thank you very much, sir. I have a request for you on the radio or on TV. Hello! Hello, hello! Guys on the radio or on the TV! At the gallery. At the gallery. Can you hear me? I have a request for you. Are we not interrupting your interview with the Sejm? 'Cause you're bothering us, so either you guys stop doing this, and if you don't, I'm gonna get you out of the courtroom right now. Can you hear me? Hello! Can you hear me? The headphones are on. I think he's ashamed. I have a request to the guards to take care of both the master and finish the interviews. Sorry to bother you, but I thought the Seym was a little more important than TV and radio, no matter what they were. Please, Mr Stefan Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Again, I'm sorry, but something's first, something's second in life. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u61	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives regarding the government bill amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and some other laws, print No 1070. And it was supposed to be so beautiful! The apartment+ was supposed to help Poles without their own M to buy real estate: 3 million apartments by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, then 2 million, 1 million apartments by Prime Minister Morawiecki. They're expectations. What about reality? After 4 years of operation of the programme in the construction market there are 26 thousand. apartments. And how many are built, completed and put into service? Next, what about the company Polskie Domy Drewniane, which was supposed to support the apartment+? It did not build even one house, and the board earned over PLN 0.5 million in 2 years. Here we have to give the vote to those who want to shift responsibility, that is, to local governments. Local governments believe that the project will not solve the problem of the lack of cheap housing, and such agencies will be rather rare. Local government officials obviously don't tell the SANs, such an agency can always be set up, but will they have any effect on reducing queues waiting for municipal premises? More than 10,000 are missing in Zabrze, says Krzysztof Lewandowski, Vice President of Zabrze. Similar problems with the lack of housing are in many smaller cities, such as Przysnysz, as confirmed by Deputy Mayor Przyszny. The success of SAN does not bode well for Leszek Hardek from the Polish Real Estate Market Federation. He doesn't think the SANs have any impact on the real estate market. Self-governments aren't going to set up this type of agency on a massive basis. It doesn't really pay off. There's too much risk. What if the tenant doesn't want to move out or doesn't pay the rent? Owners of apartments for rent also do not have to be interested in SANs. For them, the first thing that matters is the rent profit, because such apartments are usually a deposit of capital for them. Nothing has changed in this area for years," emphasizes Leszek Hardek. Marek Wielgo, an expert at GetHome.pl, feels the same way. On paper, the program seems attractive, but it's unlikely that the SAN will be released. First of all, it won't be easy to convince the owner to cooperate with the SANs. It says that most tenants conclude annual leases to adjust the rent rate to changing market conditions. In the event of the lease of SAN's apartments, the agreement would be several years old. The bill does not specify how rent is to be valued and this issue is to be negotiated. The most likely solution seems to be to value the rent by an inflation rate. It may be worthwhile for current owners, but it is not known whether this will be the case. In two years. In previous years, market rents grew much faster than inflation, and according to Mr Marek Wielki, owners would also have to accept the fact that they have no influence on who gets the keys to their apartment, because they will be occupied by the tenants indicated by the municipality on the basis of the criteria adopted by the municipality. Most likely any owner who will consider renting will ask himself whether SAN will properly take care of the technical condition of his apartment. In the case of such companies created by municipalities, doubts may arise. This is a high risk for municipalities. While SAN could commit to renovating a tenant's premises, the costs would be borne by the landlord who would then reduce the rent. There are a lot of understatements: what will the contact with tenants look like, will the officials react to problems early enough? You may have doubts about what will happen when a foundation, an association is created, and the question of who will be responsible for the unpaid rent will not be fully secured. Self-governments have a lot of concerns. We, too, have many concerns. We will (the bell) propose amendments, but this requires work in committee. Transferring the project to the committee is the best solution at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation's Parliamentary Circle. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, this project looks a bit like making people happy by force, making local governments happy by force, making housing owners happy by force, because it does not really solve the main reason why people in Poland do not have apartments. They don't have apartments for two reasons: because construction, building housing is still relatively expensive, the cost is high, and secondly, because people don't earn enough and they can't afford to live. If we look at it from this perspective, if we look at it this way, then in the noise that you have announced, you have once again capitulated to the comprehensive reform of the Construction Law. With these 70 meters, it's about quitting something, but it's about not taking things on systemically, not solving things systemically, so that we don't solve this growing problem complexly. Today we already know that what is the result, which is certainly the result of the announcement of the New Deal, is an increase in the price of developers' shares, and of course most often foreign companies. I'm sure the banks are covering their hands. The question is, where is the consumer in all this ultimately, where in all this is the Pole who wants to buy his own apartment. And finally, you have to ask yourself another question. Mrs PiS spoke about the fact that the SANs would make it possible to avoid ghettoisation. Unfortunately, ghettoization is taking place today in cities, also as a result of the concentration of municipal premises in cities. And these are real challenges for which we should work. We should work to make sure that Poles can simply afford their own apartment. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Sosnierz will speak in the second part of the speech of the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u65	The senseless pride of reason is that the socialist, the regulator, the official does not realize how little he knows about what he is trying to regulate. Every time you stick your clumsy fingers into the economy, the actual complexity of this economy is beyond your imagination, your cognitive abilities. In this way you trigger an avalanche of consequences that you are unable to predict and which ultimately cause a lot of problems, which you solve with subsequent regulations. Nicolás Dávila said that people would hit each other more often with a hammer on their finger if pain occurred after a year. And if in addition it appeared not only at another time, but at another place, most people would no longer see a cause-effect relationship. Unfortunately, it is in the economy that if you put some regulation into the economy's fingertips, in six months' time you'll get your knee swells and, of course, you won't believe what you're told before. And then, when it does, you won't accept that that's why. Why can't most people afford housing in Poland? It's because of stupid, bad, cumbersome, mindless regulations. People invest in housing because we have low interest rates and relatively high inflation. There's not much to invest in, because the government's gonna shut it down, it's gonna tax it. People don't have anything to invest in, they put money in their apartments. And so the bubble grows in the case of apartments, and therefore the apartments are expensive. In the case of this law, we are wondering how to make the apartments available. At the same time, in April we adopted the Construction Investors Act, which again raises regulatory barriers, raises costs and reduces competition. Ultimately, it will reduce housing supply, reduce accessibility, increase prices, etc. With one hand, you're trying to fix what's wrong with the other. Already the justification is illogical. We are talking about the need for market intervention due to oversupply of housing. How did you find the oversupply of the apartments? What criteria? If there's an oversupply, the prices are gonna fall. People will be able to afford apartments. I understand, then, that the intervention is to stop it. You want people not to be able to afford apartments. As a result, local agencies will be needed. Officials will be right to continue maintaining themselves at the taxpayer's expense. It is clear that taxpayers will pay for this interest, because the municipalities will be eligible for people who nobody wants to rent the apartment on normal terms, because life experience teaches that such people, for example. They don't pay rent. This is the kind of person we will treat as privileged within this framework. Why work so hard in this country anyway? People go to work, ladies and gentlemen, not for pleasure, just because, for example. They want to make a living. If they work more, harder and more efficient, they'll get better. And this is again the privilege of those who are less wanted. The whole philosophy of this government of yours is directed at showing people that it is better to come to office, turn their pockets to the left and say, "Give it to me." Take that one, give me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You show that it's not worth trying, because if we try, they'll take it and give it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u66	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 will speak with Hanna Gill-Friday. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u67	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The initiative of a social leasing agency is an initiative that is valuable and really long awaited. All those who are a little interested in housing policy in Poland supported the introduction of SANs, so that these pilot programs, which are currently being implemented in Poland in a very similar way as it is written in this law, could finally operate on some statutory basis. And it's a good thing there's a bill. On the other hand, it will bring more apartments with moderate rent. She intends to bring more apartments for those waiting in several thousand queues, seniors, people with disabilities, young people leaving foster care. This is what I address to my predecessor, Mr Sosnier of the Confederation, who spoke ill of those people who need housing support, wrongly assumed. That's not true. These are people who simply can't afford to rent an apartment on the free market, can't afford to stand by objective very often situations, such that they come out of foster care, such as that they are already old and infirm, such that they have disabilities. There are 7 years, 15 years for social housing in Poland. There are those who, after 15 years, get assigned to a place that suits them in price. This is completely absurd, because de facto in Poland this right to live is not exercised. These needs should be better met and this is the opportunity of social leasing agencies. I'll just remind you how it works. The assumption is that there is a municipality, there is a non-governmental organization and there is a free market where this non-governmental organization is looking within such, say, a social groupon, because it can be said that the premises on the commercial market so that they are cheaper to rent so that the municipality does not bear such costs because the municipalities usually do not have such premises. Later, and this is a very important second part, which I am about to talk about, municipalities in these apartments, in these premises meet the housing needs of residents, but the NGO that SAN runs, works with these residents. And what's not in this bill? Well, the other part's gone. And I'm gonna talk about it right now. The non-governmental organisation in this system is to manage services in a flexible manner, to provide social services to people who live in these premises of the social rental agency. What is lacking in this law at the moment is giving subjectivity to non-governmental organisations. It was in the original version, but from many records, the government, no one knows why, withdrew. At the moment, the NGO was simply brought to the function of such an intermediary in the real estate market, which still pays off to the interest, because it was to be entrusted, and now added support as a way of financing social rental agencies. And Habitat for Humanity, the organization that SAN promoted and introduced in Poland, sent, probably to all countries, also to the government, a number of important comments, proposals which I believe need to be introduced in this law - as Poland 2050 we will promote them. Among all these comments and good ideas, particular attention is paid to restoring the possibility of social services. Why? Because working with people who use SANs, with tenants, is a job that determines e.g. temporary lodging of rents, as well as restoring the possibility of calling for payment of charges. Ladies and gentlemen, we used to study areas demoted in Łódź, before the rehabilitation programme, and from these studies we carried out one thing: two unpaid rents are already a spiral of debt for a person who is in a crisis that is poor - it is a spiral from which this person is unable to exit. So this really is where the role of a non-governmental organization in SAN needs to be strengthened. Because if the non-governmental organisation that runs SAN is able to work in such a soft way and encourage the person who will rent the apartment (the bell) in the social rental agency, then the rents will actually be paid. Finally, in the existing pilot social leasing agencies, the debt is 3,9% at the moment. For comparison: in municipal stock in Łódź there is a debt of one third of the inhabitants, and in municipal stock in Warsaw there is a debt of 35%. So you see the difference... Thank you very much, Member. ...how much it pays to strengthen the role of NGOs in social leasing agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u68	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Chasing on behalf of the Polish Case Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u69	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law on amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and some other laws from print no. 1070 on behalf of the Polish Polish Cases Circle. The bill has a lot of pros. I am glad that she has found her finale in government work, because for several years the Habitat for Humanity mentioned here has been successfully implementing what is working in other European countries, helping people who actually have problems with renting apartments, while taking advantage of the resources and opportunities that have emerged... it is difficult to talk about opportunities, but yet such elements have emerged when it comes to oversupply in housing and as regards pandemics. It draws attention to one more important thing: it goes in such a way that the role of social entrepreneurship, social economy, the role of NGOs in creating local services or involving local and housing policies, but also in other policies, is indeed recognised. It is worth using this model or this direction of thinking in the municipal economy, in waste management, in culture or for example. sports, because they're good solutions. The local community, which could be involved in the planning and development of services, suggests how to solve local problems, certainly has much greater wisdom than politicians or officials who are often only in Warsaw and who create the law here. So it is worth taking advantage of these experiences, it is worth taking advantage of the experiences of NGOs. It is precisely because of the direction in which this law is going, that the Polish case will certainly be willing to proceed further over this law. Of course, all the comments I make to the Habitat for Humanity Foundation are worth considering. Why? In order to achieve in this spirit this idea of involving NGOs in local policy, which are to have a very important role in designing and satisfying, in co-satisfying needs, of course in an alternative way, because this is not a solution or a prescription for all the housing problems of local residents. It is important for this NGO to be able to actively participate in the construction of SAN from the very beginning, so that it is not ordered and that it is not put before the fact done, i.e. that the local government takes into account the local organisation and what will be important in this design. And, of course, this flexibility is also directly linked to the qualification, the possibility for SAN to qualify tenants. SAN may have independence, should carry out other services, because, as my previous speaker mentioned, it will indeed be important to SAN, also when it comes to combating homelessness, which is very little said. And homelessness is still a problem and a burden, also for local governments, and it is quite an expensive burden. It would therefore be worthwhile for SAN to be a partner, to have a great deal of autonomy, and for the municipality to be able to allow the tenants to be qualified directly by SAN on certain conditions. It is not always the case that those who have problems, immediately, at the very beginning will report to the local government, a social assistance centre, but actually to such a SAN will be easier for him to come to ask for help, and it will be an element of prevention. Such amendments are tabled by this organisation, but I think that during the process and after the discussion in committee they will also be discussed here, at parliamentary level. It is also worth taking care of, helping, especially at this stage, which we now have... I understand that this project will be a pilot so that we can learn in the future what works and what doesn't work. But I also think that as with any pilotage and new tools placed on the legal market, it would be worthwhile for the government to think of some financial resource to help municipalities, even if only to support additional services in the SANs, so that it would not be the burden of SAN. Because all the money that SAN will get out of profit, just like any social economy operator - because I understand that it will be a social economy entity - will be spent on further initiatives and solutions in the local government. So maybe it is worth mentioning that the government should plan some system of central funding for local governments, which will decide to implement this pilot programme. I hope that a number of incentives that have been included in this law will be a good alternative in order to solve the problem of housing, which is huge and which has not been resolved for years - even though large resources have been available - in a constructive way, based on the principle of partnership, cooperation, understanding and building services at local level. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u70	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time for the question - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u71	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As Mr Morawiecki's millions of apartments are currently only active in the virtual world, any initiative aimed at providing housing to the most deprived must be welcomed with optimism and joy. As far as social rental agencies are concerned, it must be said that it is basically a good initiative, very nice that the government is observing what is happening in local governments, and draws from good experience, among others. the city of Poznań. Thanks to this initiative, we give owners the opportunity to obtain fixed income from renting apartments, the tenant is guaranteed safety and use of premises, while the municipality will be able to own premises that she did not have to build or purchase. On the other hand, some questions and doubts arise, so I would ask for information. Who will compensate the municipality for any rent payments, the difference in the rent? Who's responsible for the destruction of the apartments? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not a common process, but damage happens. Who will be responsible for this destruction? Who's gonna decide who the family gets the apartment? Thank you very much. I would also ask for a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u72	Mr Wisław Szczepański, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that SAN will of course not create new apartments, is a solution to the problem of existing housing and possibly lower rent. I have a question, Minister, but will this bill not be a burden on the municipalities? Why? You assume, however, that in the first year there will be two SANs, then three, then a maximum of 45. If the city of Poznań paid about PLN 1.5 million to SAN annually, it is easy to calculate that in large cities it will be enough for five SANs. My assumption is, if it's going to be 9 million in the tenth year, aren't you assuming that the State will increase the funding for the SAN? How many SANs do you think exist today on similar terms? How much could it be? Because you're assuming it's $2.5,000. The municipalities are only 45. These are four big cities. If Warsaw starts, I can say that she will eat the 9 million zlotys. Are you expecting more funding?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u75	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is, of course, a tiny step in the right direction. We, as the Civic Coalition, are in favour of continuing to investigate this project in the Committee on Infrastructure. Minister, I am afraid that unfortunately this project will be doomed to failure, just as it was doomed to failure your government of PiS - the project of living +. You promised in 2015 that you would build 100,000. apartments for rent. How much did you build? Minister, I ask for specific data, how many apartments have been built for almost six years, and how many of these apartments have been built in the Podlaskie Voivodeship? Because as far as I know, zero apartments were built in the capital of the voivodship, in Bialystok. So you failed to solve the problem of housing in Poland. I also have a question as to why the well-functioning scheme of living for young people was abolished. Minister, about PLN 3 billion [[♪ The bell ♪]] We've been able to donate to this program. Thank you. That's over 100,000. people are happy with their own and you have simply eliminated this program for political reasons. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u76	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u77	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amendment of the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and some other laws is a good solution, especially for low-income people. After listening to the club's opinions, I have a question for the Minister: Will the functioning of the social rental agency improve the system of renting apartments and does it start the economy on the market? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u78	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Maciej Necessary, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The failure of the project, the lack of a reprivatization bill, the return to misguided housing practices of the Civic Platform consisting in throwing money at banks and developers, driving only the increase in housing prices - all this makes it rare for us to praise the housing policy of Law and Justice. But this particular idea, the idea of a social rental agency, is a good idea, because it can, of course, be a limited alternative to short-term, unstable rental or a 40-year loan. Only that it is such an alternative that it is an attractive option for people who want to plan their lives quietly in a perspective of not 5, but 10, 15 years, who want to have a guarantee that they will be able to raise their children in a given place, in a given apartment, it would be worth giving the municipalities the opportunity to sign contracts for a longer period than just 5 years. Hence my question: Why is the maximum time of these contracts 5 years (the bell) and is there a possibility that it would be longer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u80	Thank you very much. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is a step in the right direction. Currently, at crazy market prices per square metre, more and more people just can't afford credit. Families fall into the so-called. The rent gap, which means they can't get a loan, and at the same time they make too much money to apply for a communal apartment. In 2019 this problem was about 40% Poles - this is what Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego reported. That is why we need to use adequate tools as soon as possible to improve the housing situation of citizens and citizens so that they do not have to rent apartments in the free market for years or borrow from family and friends for their own contribution. It is therefore surprising why this law limits the catalogue of legal forms which may be adopted by social leasing agencies only to social cooperatives. What about the usual cooperatives? Why this exclusion, when we are facing one of the most serious social challenges of the last 30 years, namely compliance with the constitutional right of Poles and Poles to live? And I wouldn't brag if I were my friends on the Civic Platform. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a programme to support developers and banks, which they have effectively practiced over the years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u82	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u83	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The introduction of the social institution of the rental agency is a good idea, but let us not be illusioned that it will contribute significantly to solving the housing crisis. The situation is dramatic. The housing deficit at the end of 2019 amounted to 650 thousand. apartments. The situation of families with children, especially those with many children, single parents and young people, is objectively the most difficult. It is also worth mentioning here: housing, which is intended for people with lower incomes, municipal housing, housing within social housing associations, factory housing, accounted for only 2,2% in 2019. the number of newly built apartments. As regards this law, note should be given the obligation for the social agency to restore the technical status of the apartment at which it was located at the time of the transfer of the agency's apartment at the time of the termination of the contract. Why didn't such a solution arise?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u84	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u85	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the one hand, the provisions of the Act say that it is the municipal council which sets out criteria, principles, etc. in the form of an act of local law, and, on the other hand, the municipality indicates the natural person with whom SAN enters into the contract, thirdly the municipality is subject to reporting obligations, because it is the municipality which sends all information to the minister responsible. On the other hand, this municipality has no state support. So either, by calling the social lease agency what is to be created, let's keep this community and let's leave it to these agencies to their full independence, or let's just not charm and say that we are fulfilling certain principles of social economics and we are giving it to non-governmental organizations, because that's not really the case. If the commune is going to influence this, then I see a dissonance here and... [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...conditions of operation. And I am still asking for subsidies for municipalities if they are to guarantee the functioning of this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. We are also wearing masks in the sitting room, sir. Not just on the way to the podium. Thank you. Mrs Marshal, an additional question, how did it go? Very good. I'm so happy for you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u87	When I look at, ladies and gentlemen, how you carry out your promises, which require invention of creative and managerial skill, I think it is about 20%, because of the 100,000. The apartments you promised, 26,000. I think it's under construction because you haven't finished anything. Meanwhile, the nation takes matters into its own hands. In my municipalities where I live, there are now about 7,000. apartments. It is the municipality of Dziwnów, the municipality of Rewal, the municipality of Trzebiatów - small municipalities. Exactly, but are these really apartments? These are locations, which are 20 and 30 meters long, in hijackings up to 40 m, so-called. apartments for rent. These apartments, in which no one is checked in, are later handed over to various agencies, which rent them to tourists, collecting fees from them, paying sure and all taxes due to the State, i.e. income tax and VAT - or maybe not. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But do they pay municipal taxes? Have you ever counted the losses that the municipalities suffer from such housing? Such apartments are usually taxed at 0.81 gr per m Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, will you ever consider a bill that will sort this out? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u88	Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u89	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Young people who are still living with their parents at the age of 25.34 represent 45.1% all young people of this age. Two million apartments are missing. Living+ is a disaster and I won't even comment on it. That's over 70,000. apartments for rent, which were found in KPO, were only found there and only thanks to the negotiations of the Left. In the New Deal, law and justice are responsible for funding banks and developers. What's it like in Europe? About half of the Swiss, Germans and Austrians decide to rent. Moreover, it is a clear trend in most European countries to move away from property. Every 20th person rents in Poland. A social lease agency is a step in the right direction, but this step cannot be treated as a replacement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For building apartments for rent. And here the PiS have abdicated shamefully. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u90	Thank you. Mr Wiesław Buj, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the establishment of a social leasing agency provides for the setting up of operators to create conditions to meet housing needs. The project assumes that SANs can operate as a joint stock company, joint stock company, foundation, association or social cooperative. Why are economic operators limited, literally indicating those that the designer has the right to carry out these tasks? I believe that housing cooperatives should be included in this package. Those who function, have excellent staff, good facilities, often satisfied investment needs, could successfully carry out these tasks. Please consider possibly (the bell) supplementing this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u92	Thank you very much, sir. The next question will be asked by Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the direction is probably right, but I have a few questions. First of all, how will the problem of insurance of this property be solved? I get it. SAN rents or rents this place from the owner, but for five years, someone's got to cover it. Secondly, how will the issue of renovation be settled? In the meantime, there may indeed be a decapitalization of this property. Thirdly, the formula itself is that from someone is rented apartment for 1000 PLN and it is possible that for 1200 PLN it can be rented on the basis of some criterion to other people, because these entities have to live out of something. Therefore, I have this question: Shouldn't the level of this possible overlay be legally reduced? And the last question (the bell) concerns the number of apartments on a national scale which, according to the Ministry's assessment, may be subject to this type of activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My club's position on housing for rent is clear and unchangeable: The Left will by all means seek to create mechanisms conducive to the creation of such housing and budget subsidies at the stage of their creation and exploitation. The project of setting up a social leasing agency must be considered very interesting, but unfortunately highly underdeveloped. The project to create structures with specific reporting obligations for the management of the 2 000 pool. housing in the country by 45 independent SANs without unambiguous indication of the sources of funding for their statutory activities is virtually impossible. The whole project in this area is now more wishful thinking and therefore needs to be refined at the seymical stage. I would also kindly ask for information on the funds that the municipalities will receive from the management point of view of SAN. I'd like a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u96	Thank you, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u97	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Act on social leasing agencies provides that they may be carried out, inter alia. by associations, social cooperatives and foundations. Associations will be able to receive this task from the municipality in the form described in the Act on Public Use and Volunteering, among others. by supporting, i.e. funding, this public task or entrusting, i.e. funding, this public task. But here there is also an amendment to the law on public benefit. It is precisely this new public task, creating conditions for the development of housing to meet the needs of the local government. I would like to ask whether the legislator also provided for the possibility of an own-initiative non-governmental organisation (Dzinek) to speak to the municipality about such a public task in the form of a social rental agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u98	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, the housing problem is one of the biggest problems in Poland today. Apartment prices are extremely high today, I think they're breaking any record. I do not believe in these promises of the government, I do not believe in the promises of the PiS, because these promises were very much and we know how it ended, even if the proverbial 100,000. apartments. Social rental agencies can partially solve some of the problems, because today we have a situation where there are owners of apartments who simply do not want to rent them - the most difficult situation is that there are single mothers raising children and families - fearing that this agreement will not be able to be dissolved in the future. So this is a solution. But I encourage you to create incentives for those who have part of the financial resources, incentives in the form of tax exemptions [[♪ The bell ♪]] or various kinds of subsidies. And remember one more thing on this program, so that it will succeed - with support for individual municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u100	Thank you, sir. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u101	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I can say from my experience as former vice president of Opole, who was responsible for municipal housing policy, that of course this direction of the bill is absolutely indicated and very good, while we must face the most important problem. Every local governmentman who was responsible for the allocation of municipal premises will answer this question in the same way as me, because there is some sort of illogical: on the one hand, we have a hunger for housing and invest in new apartments, and very well, on the other hand, the law on the protection of tenants' rights makes it impossible for people with high incomes to enter into lease agreements, thus making 10 - I say on the example of Opole - apartments are occupied by people who do not live at all in these apartments, want to buy them or rent them and earn money, and people with low incomes wait for years. In my opinion, this issue should be brought together by all 460 Members, because the commune's task is to meet housing needs (the bell), municipal affairs, so the communal housing should be considered temporary for low-income people. It is worth leaning on, so we will release a lot of municipal housing and people with higher incomes will be customers of developers. It is worth considering and resolving this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u102	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, club Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! As Mr Wiesław Szczepański pointed out in the position of the Left Club, the form of the social leasing agency was successfully practiced in Poznań, which I represent, and this project was carried out on the initiative of the Left Council Club, which I had the pleasure of being president at the time. It does not apply to development apartments, but to existing apartments in the private housing stock and allowed to implement housing aid to those to whom the municipality wanted to help and for whom it did not have enough housing. He was very successful, but was stopped by changes in the Act on the Rights of Tenants and Poznań waiting with yearning for this project, which (The Bell) will allow you to return to this practice. However, this form is not a solution to all housing problems, it is one of the forms and it would be very expected. However, surely the amount that is foreseen in the budget, 9 million, and in 10 years' time, is quite insufficient, because Poznań itself spent 1.5 million on such payments during the year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u104	Thank you, Member. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u105	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Social leasing agencies have a chance to become an important tool for improving housing policy. For that to happen, it can't be another idea that looks nice in Power Point, and it doesn't really change much. The responsibility for setting up social leasing agencies is to rest on the municipalities, but many cities are in a very difficult situation as a result of pandemics and government policies and may not be able to take on further financial commitments. The Impact Assessment states that by 2030 around 45 social leasing agencies will be set up, with only 2 000 available. apartments. It's a drop in the sea of needs. How does the government plan to support local governments in setting up social leasing agencies? What are you going to do to make this project more than just a PR bang? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u106	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Hanaczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I agree with most of my previous speakers that this is a step in the right direction. The housing market needs support and no doubt any initiative that will improve the situation on this market is priceless. It is also important to me that this initiative emerges from the experience of NGOs. On the other hand, I would like to ask you a question - I would like to refer a little bit to Janusz Kowalski's suggestion here, and I agree - have you considered whether it is not worth making the rules on municipal rental more flexible, but it has many shortcomings. It is precisely this flexibility that could bring little benefit [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's this initiative we're talking about today? And I would like to ask you this: What level of rent in relation to the market, as you assume, will be achieved in connection with the proposal submitted? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u108	Thank you very much, Member. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about whether this project is a real project or just a propaganda project that the PiS government will be able to boast about. SAN's activities will be able to run an association, a foundation, a company - all who will sign a contract with the municipality. SAN will lease apartments from their owners - i.e. guarantee the term of payment of rent, stable use and maintenance of apartments in good condition. What about insurance? I wonder if the conditions are fair. In times of pandemic, isn't this about a second bottom? I'm asking about the money that is, and the returns and guarantees for the municipalities. Is that money, that $9 million, enough? We all know that it is not a drop in the sea of needs when it comes to housing resources, housing resources. The needs of people are much greater. There's a lot of rent arrears. Municipal housing, social housing should be temporarily verified. Persons who use these resources, [[♪ The bell ♪]] should be systematically checked. In Łódź there is a queue of over 7 thousand. People, you wait a long time. Who's gonna compensate the municipality for the money? I would like a written reply on how many apartments you have built as part of the Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u111	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The government promised its citizens 100,000. apartments. Within the framework of the scheme, the apartment+s completed about 26 thousand. Today he is creating social leasing agencies, which is the mediation between the landlord and the landlord, the low-income ones. It's a good form, the right step in the right direction, absolutely. But there's a catch in this whole thing, of course. That hook is about finance. This whole project is on the shoulders of local governments, which are supposed to guarantee this programme, define criteria and report. My question is: Why is there no gold in the bill for local governments to compensate for costs? My question is: Who will cover the costs of local governments? And last question: How many houses did the government build as part of the program of the apartments + while in Lublin Voivodeship? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u112	Thank you, Member. The last question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The data is terrifying when it comes to the number of people living with their parents today, because it's about 35%. This is one of the worse results in Europe for those already independent, who still live with their parents. That proves one thing - that these apartments are gone. This is a project that, of course, goes the right way. But it's not even a step in the right direction, it's a little step in the right direction. Basically, we need a good, forward-looking housing program. Many expected such a thing just after the reconstruction plan, after the order presented by the Prime Minister and President Kaczyński, and we heard about flat houses with a certain attic built under some very strange procedure. I would like to find out today what is going on with these flat houses with a certain attic and how the procedure (the bell) of building such houses is supposed to look like, so that they are safe and do not threaten any consequences for the inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u114	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask you to answer the questions of the ladies and gentlemen of the State Undersecretary at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Mrs Anna Cornecka. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A lot of topics have been raised at the same time. I'll try to respond to everything. If I don't answer any of the questions, we'll answer them in writing. Ladies and gentlemen! We are taking a number of initiatives in the field of meeting the housing needs of Poles. We both build cheap apartments with moderate rents under the SIMs, as well as finance the municipal stock - at this point up to 80% financing for the construction of municipal premises and renovation of empty houses. SANs are another element of the whole puzzle, the whole ecosystem. Here we must pay attention to the fact that it is the responsibility of the municipality to meet the housing needs of those who have the most difficult living situation. And that's where the SAN solution is addressed. Therefore, it does not matter whether we consider how many Poles can buy an apartment or not today. Here we're dealing with people who can't buy an apartment, and in the near future they won't buy an apartment, and they have to live somewhere. Why such a model developed in cooperation between OPP municipalities and NGOs? That's because this model works best. The model that we took to the workshop, i.e. the Poznań model of cooperation, is a committed municipality, which brought several hundred apartments in a social rental agency in the city of Poznań. If we take the Habitat for Humanity data, it turns out it's only 20 apartments. We see the scale, we see the support... Why doesn't a community with a queue of people in need have an entire administration, infrastructure, and resources to create a social rental agency? Because there are resources for the effects of their work, not their creation. If this is based on municipal infrastructure, it is simply a statutory task of the municipality. This is not a novelty in this area. Besides, local governments themselves wanted this law, they sought and advocated it, not a different form of it. The cost of this program is nothing compared to the construction of new apartments. If the city of Poznań spent 1.5 million a year, this is the cost of purchasing five apartments. And we can have a few hundred of them in stock without spending any resources, without involving them, without building them, in fact, right away. It is a model of cooperation that operates in many European countries and does not raise any doubt that it is worth the price. Why housing cooperatives? Housing cooperatives operate in a different regime. In order to acquire an apartment in a housing cooperative, you need money to contribute to a housing cooperative. This is a completely different regime, a different system. Cooperatives generally do not rent apartments today, but seek, have their co-operatives, who in another formula are interested in these apartments. Besides, cooperatives would also have to build these apartments. ...management, not building. We're talking about housing mostly in the market. Therefore, the model of cooperation that we have foreseen here seems to be the most optimal for us. Please do not forget that both SAN, the municipality and the later tenant conclude a civil lease and lease agreement. All the issues you have said about the mutual settlement are governed by such an agreement and the municipality's participation in the payment of the costs of the rented apartment or the renovation of this apartment is specified in the cooperation agreement between SAN and the municipality. There may even be a situation where SAN will renovate this apartment in exchange for a discount on the rent. The insurance will be the same as any other rental place. If you're wondering who's gonna hand over these premises... The biggest devastation of dwellings, dwellings that are suitable for residence, occurs at a short-term lease, which is precisely where the tenant does not live in this apartment for more than a few days and causes damage, for which later only the tenant pays for it. Here we have this completely regulated and the matter of lease and lease contracts as to the condition of the apartment can regulate such issues. There's no compulsion here, there's full voluntaryity. The landlord agrees voluntarily to the conditions offered to him. What's the difference in rent? We estimate about 50%. Apartments in SAN will be half cheaper, everything depends on the community's involvement (the bell). The flat payments go directly to the tenants and also constitute, at the landlord's... about 20% lower. And now it all depends on the community's involvement. If it's higher, that percentage could be lower. I draw attention to such a very pro-social, even I could say: the social and even interventional nature of this law. Here there were differences, the point is to strengthen the OPP, give money to function. Then we would be faced with allegations that we want to create some entities to whom we are now entrusting money, and it is not known whether they will use it properly. That's why we're gonna finance the effects, not just the functioning. Thank you. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Anna Kornecka: This bill is the result of six months of negotiations with local governments. If we were to turn this system over now and entrust the municipalities with a smaller role, we might in fact wonder later whether this bad prediction of the dead had come true. I am asking you to adopt this law and I hope that we will proceed on this, to carry out further work within the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u116	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm should refer the Government's draft law amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws contained in print No. 1070 to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a time limit for the submission of the report to be discussed at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Law on the Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Public Finance and some other laws (print No 1086). I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wosi to present the reasons for the bill. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u117	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a draft law on amending the law - Law on the prosecutor's office, Law on public finances and some other laws. The Act is of a very technical, orderly nature and comes down to one basic issue, a fundamental change, namely the ordering of matters of deposit sums which are organized in the prosecutor's office units. At the moment there is no regulation, as is the case in the general court, that these deposits are kept in accounts opened by the Minister of Finance at Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. We want to harmonise this practice so that those rules that are common in the judiciary are also in the prosecution's office, in the office of the prosecutor's office. High Izbo, short, simple bill. I would be very grateful for the positive examination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski will be the first to speak by presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the Act amending the Act - Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Public Finance and some other laws, print no. 1086. As the Minister stated, the management of the deposit sums obtained in connection with proceedings conducted or supervised in the general organisational units of the prosecutor's office is not currently regulated. These amounts include the amounts of asset guarantees, the funds included in the asset security or retained as evidence in kind in connection with criminal proceedings being conducted or supervised. In addition, the deposit sums covered by the proposed regulation also include the deposit sums related to the day-to-day operation of the office units of the prosecutor's office, such as liabilities or collateral for the proper performance of the contract. This directory is open. Keeping deposit sums in different ways - because there is no regulation here so far - makes it difficult to control and obtain data about them, and makes it different for individual entities to be treated according to which entity conducts or supervises the proceedings concerned. The proposed law proposes that the deposit sums obtained in connection with proceedings conducted or supervised in general units, inter alia. the prosecutor's office or with the day-to-day operation of those units were held in the deposit accounts of the Minister of Finance, Funds and Regional Policy held by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, on the same terms What are the court's deposits? In order to achieve this, you need a design regulation to introduce and amend several laws, among others. in the Law - Law on Lawyer, in the Law on Public Finance, in the Enforcement Penal Code, in the Law - Law on the System of Universal Courts. The proposed provision provides that the accounts will be kept in gold, in euros, US dollars, UK pounds, Swiss francs. Until now, according to the Act, these accounts have been kept in any foreign currency, but in practice Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego has kept these accounts in these five proposed currencies. The funds in other currencies listed in the national bank's exchange rate table or cash intermediary of the national bank will be paid into deposit accounts held in zlotys at the currency's rate. The deposit sums of the public prosecutor's office will have to be transferred to the deposit accounts of the Minister of Finance, Funds and Regional Policy maintained by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego within 6 months of the entry into force of the proposed law. Deposit sums held in bank accounts, interest-bearing such as fixed-term deposits, will have to be transferred to deposit accounts of the Minister of Finance, Funds and Regional Policy maintained by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego no later than 14 days after the end of the deposit. As I have put it, the proposed solution is necessary. The Law and Justice Club will therefore support this solution in the further work of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u120	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I cannot agree with my previous speaker, the representative of the PiS Parliamentary Club, except that the bill contains a justification for the need for legislative changes described in the bill. In fact, neither the authors of the government project nor the Member of the PiS Club pointed out the de facto problem of funds deposited in bank accounts in the course of the prosecution's preparatory proceedings or in the course of prosecution proceedings. We are talking in this draft law about measures that go to the so-called. deposits are a different kind of collateral against future penalties and various types of criminal measures of a financial nature, such as: Guarantees. So we are talking de facto in this law not about public funds, but about private funds deposited in the bank accounts of the agencies of the prosecutors, which are managing these funds today. Projectors propose that these funds, close to 2.5 billion each year, be transferred to bank accounts at the disposal of the Minister of Finance. There is a key and fundamental problem: why should the Minister of Finance have funds that are not public funds? After all, until a final judicial decision has been passed, funds deposited in bank accounts are not public funds, they are private money. Therefore, why does the Minister of Finance obtain this bill the right to manage private funds, which in case of a favourable decision e.g. For the defendant, will they be returned to the hands of the depositors? This question is not answered by the authors of the project. This is not the question that I am calling here as the only Member or perhaps my opposition colleagues are reporting. These are doubts also raised during the consultation by the National Bank of Poland, by the Union of Polish Banks. This is a problem that is not trivial, we are talking about legal protection of private money. But you can see that this constitutional principle doesn't matter much, because I think the financial problems of the budget are bigger than we all know. Because why, in such a way, let's say to ourselves: the non-constitutional minister of finance is needed current access to PLN 2 billion? Does he need some small loan system within the State budget to secure the funds that are covered by the State budget and for which the financial plan is not covered today? Do we really have the situation that the budget of the State with the hands of the Minister of Finance has a need to reach out to private citizens' money to meet budgetary needs? If so, please simply write: that you change the nature of the funds deposited in the prosecution's accounts and since the payment they become public funds. And then the finance minister can manage them. But just put it straight, instead of laconically explaining that there is a need for control, that the previous forms of control have not worked. You're not setting an example to confirm that. How is the Minister of Finance to exercise control? What kind of control are we talking about? What is it to serve? What are the problems today arising from the supervision of the prosecution's units over these measures? We see that the true intentions of the designers are not those described in the bill and in the explanatory memorandum. It's about budgetary problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister of Finance. That is why at this stage we are assessing the project negatively and we are counting on reflection from the projectors. We hope that this project will simply be changed deeply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u122	Thank you, sir. The position of the Left Club will be presented to the High House by Anna Maria Żukowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased that Minister Ziobro is handing over this supervision to the finance minister. However, it seems to me that these measures will be safer under the supervision of the Minister of Finance than under supervision, as is currently the case, of the prosecutor's office. I believe that this change should work in the Polish legal system, because we already have long-standing regulations on judicial deposits, and in the prosecution's office a scooter soul - each unit of the prosecution organizes this in its own way. I hope that the Ministry of Finance will supervise deposits, which, of course, also come from wadia and various security funds, and that supervision will be carried out reliably. This change is indeed a technical change. The Left does not see the problem of the Minister of Finance laying his hands on private money. At the time when these funds will be reimbursed, they will be reimbursed on the same basis as in the case of the system currently in force as regards the units of the prosecutors in their possession. These are, as before, bank accounts, except that this is about Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u124	Thank you, Member. On behalf of the Polish Coalition, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition, as regards the proposed amendment of the Act - Law on the Prosecutor's Office, the Public Finance Act and some other laws, considers that the Ministry of Justice of course has the full right to look for solutions which in this case improve the management of deposits from various types of security measures. This should be done on a legal basis, in a clear, orderly manner. Unfortunately, the impression that it is actually an attempt to create a hot credit line for the Ministry of Finance cannot be abandoned. We have doubts that the status of private funds is not secured in any way, guaranteed by, for example, the provisions of the Act. We would like to encourage you, Minister, to give these doubts some thought in the course of your work. We are inclined to develop this law in the course of the committee's further work so as not to cause controversy. I hope that happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, on behalf of the Confederate Circle. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Speaking of the functioning of the prosecutor's office, it is worth asking yourself today, in 2021, how the prosecutor's office operates in Poland, since on the one hand, on the 9th of May, the Communist Party activists Poland is free to parade with the sickle and hammer under the monument of Soviet soldiers, and on the other hand, the prosecution in Poland has been pursuing hundreds of national activists for 2 years, trying absurdly to link the activities of nationalists, including mine, Members and people who have been active since recently, teenagers, minors, with the death of Paweł Adamowicz. We're dealing with some kind of psychic. The investigation that's been going on for years is surveillance, it's a constant call for people to answer hundreds of questions. It seems that when I was in charge of this investigation in the prosecutor's office, the police, 150 questions were asked. Many of them were simply absurd and not at all related to the subject matter concerned. It's about questions about, for example, my attitude towards immigrants or immigration. I said, what's going on at the D.A.'s office? What happens after six years? Where's the change? Because everything still works the way it does for Platforms, e.g. Still, at the request of the prosecutor's office, the activists of the nation are convicted only because they dared to leave and stand still against the aggressive, vulgar manifestation of LGBT? This is reality. This is reality in Podkarpacie. This year they were sentenced to fines. First beat up by the police and then sentenced to fines. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a question of system change. This is the question of whether this system change is really happening, has done. If so, what are its manifestations? Because we're dealing with a political commission investigation at this point, on a political order. It looks like the Secret Service is making a catalogue of activists, places, names, addresses. They come to their families' homes. Yeah, that's what it looks like. Is this some kind of cooperation between the Home Office and the D.A.'s office to make a catalogue of activists under this pretext? What's it for? I ask the Ministry of Justice to take this matter into consideration in this debate, because it is an extraordinary thing, and as a matter of fact, it resembles this investigation as a matter of fact. In fact, the times of the Civic Platform. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch on behalf of the Poland 2050 wheel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum of the bill rightly stresses that the amendments to several laws are dictated by the need to regulate the procedures for managing deposits obtained in connection with proceedings conducted or supervised by the prosecution, in particular those arising from property safeguards and payments of property guarantees. It is mentioned that this procedure with secured deposits has so far been more intuitive, modelled on the handling of judicial deposits. These technical changes are indeed needed. Deposits must actually be stored in a civilised manner. Such a full regulation has so far not been in this regard and there may have been various problems. That's what the prosecutors think. But as is often the case with government projects, there is a great deal of distrust, whether there are legal surprises in this project. The Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 negatively evaluates the project, because the Minister of Finance is to be entitled to temporary management, to finance the borrowing needs of the state budget and in connection with the management of the Treasury debt, the funds collected in deposit accounts with the obligation to return them at any request with interest due. In fact, these measures are a source of loaning to the finance department without any consent of the prosecutor. After all, the funds collected in the accounts are not public funds, but in the vastly private part. In our view, therefore, there is no legitimacy in a democratic state to give the Minister of Finance the power to have these funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u130	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. If any of you and your fellow Members would like to join the list, this is the last moment. I can't see. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before we start any changes, we always ask ourselves: Why, what is this supposed to do? To be honest, when you read this paper, this bill, this question actually arises. What is the purpose of these changes? Why should the money that is in court deposits today, which, in general, has a judicial system, go to the Minister of Finance? Does the Minister of Finance really need some increased knowledge about who is paying, what are the resources and what sources They're coming? Or is it about some, I don't know, moments dragged into society by the government to finance their own tasks? I ask you, Minister, to answer these questions, because the intention to make these changes is absolutely unclear. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u132	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The legislator proposes a change to exempt the prosecutor from the costs of implementing the asset-protection order. According to the proposed amendment, any material liability for the failure and performance of the provisions on asset protection issued shall be removed from the prosecutor's office. As a result, the costs of implementing the defective order will normally be borne by the citizen, regardless of the outcome of the procedure. Is that what this regulation was about? It is impossible to agree with this regulation, because the form of financial security has begun to be abused in preparatory proceedings in relation to suspects. I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u134	Thank you, sir. The next question will be asked by Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is difficult to support a law in which the Minister of Finance will be able to manage in principle part of the private property of people. You just don't know what's gonna happen. Now that I'm here and we're talking about the D.A.'s office, it's worth asking. The prosecution in Gdansk is currently dealing with one very political issue aimed at de facto harassment of people connected - even loosely - with the All-Polish Youth. Happening media-political has become an excuse for police officers to harass young people in their homes, schools or ask their neighbors what these young people do. They're usually volunteers, activists. The management of MW or political leaders were also interrogated, they were also being harassed. I'm interested in what the secret purpose of this case is (the bell) about the ministry. Thank you. Why should young people be harassed?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u136	Thank you, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The explanatory memorandum of the bill states that at the moment there are almost PLN 2.6 billion on distributed accounts of the prosecutor's office. The legislator points out that these accounts were more than 400, and at the moment the calculations show that there will be more than 500 related to service costs. Does the regulation that we are currently introducing, or a single system, also involve the fact that these accounts will be kept by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowy with access to electronic banking for the prosecutor's office units? What are the costs envisaged? In short, will the costs associated with maintaining these bank accounts in the new system by the units of the prosecutor's office (the bell) that they bear be much lower? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u138	Thank you very much, sir. And one last question. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I continue with the question of costs, but first of all I would like to address what representatives of the Civic Coalition have said. I don't know if you've read this bill, gentlemen. After all, the bill speaks of harmonising certain rules. If we have accounts at the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in the case of other court cases, and suddenly in the case of the prosecutor's office, we want to standardize it. I think the Minister will confirm that. I have a question: Is there any danger to these funds if they are in the deposits of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in the accounts of the Ministry of Finance and not in the accounts of individual prosecutors, and will this result in savings? If there are savings, what is it? Or will there be some cost for citizens who, at different stages of prosecutorial proceedings, have these measures taken in different ways? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u140	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice of Minister Michał Wosia to answer the questions asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u141	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the clubs and circles that supported this bill. It is clear that Members have read the solutions and see that they are solutions that are good for citizens, good for you, also good for the quality of prosecution management. Indeed, this amount of PLN 2.5 billion in deposit sums is considerable, but saying that on these funds, this money the state will lay a hand on, is some total aberration, is some kind of departure. I'm sorry, but that's what you have to call it. We heard similar statements in 2015, in 2016, when these sensible solutions were introduced into the general judiciary. Earlier, each court opened its accounts on the commercial terms in which it wanted the bank to pay its deposits. What were the costs, you know. In the case of this law, we estimate savings of up to 100,000 under the OSR. zł. We need to be clear about what happened in those six years. In the course of these six years, did the State lay a hand on the money deposited in court deposits? High Izbo, a little serious and sensible look. This is a really good technical bill. The Minister of Finance did not take the initiative, with the initiative of the prosecution even to manage these deposits in a meaningful, fast, efficient way. Moreover, the bill itself provides that the prosecutor will be the authorising officer of these accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, in the article. 53a § 3 is written that the deposit sum - etc. - are collected in the accounts of the Minister of Finance which the competent district prosecutors have at their disposal. There are no risks that some of your fellow Members have wanted to mention and point out. It's a matter of the D.A.'s office. I address Mr Winnicki. Mr Zbigniew Ziobro - unfortunately there is no Member, which means he is not interested in the answer, but I will answer that the High House should know - no one other than Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro applied for the delegalisation of the Communist Party of Poland in 2020. And this is probably a short, correct response to all these allegations concerning the treatment of those who, while worshiping communism on 9 May, had expressed their views under one or the other monument. The matter of the prosecution's actions, ladies and gentlemen. Safety - a record for 30 years, 89% In 2015, the indicator on trust in the prosecutor's office was 66%. The number of proceedings - in 2015, 830 thousand, now we have more than 1 million. Civil cases - the prosecutor's office is involved in civil cases, it used to be seventy-two thousand, now it's nearly 100,000. cases, so we help people in the D.A.'s office, the D.A.'s office helps. Security - billions of zloty secured on the assets of criminals just to effectively fight these most dangerous, largest criminals. As for the other matters raised here, for example concerning the costs of proceedings, I would like to say that the prosecutor is responsible for faulty proceedings, but we are writing in the Enforcement Act - because I guess you asked this question - something that has already been worked out by the caselaw and which has already become a permanent judicial practice. This provision clarifies the issue of liability as these accounts are kept by the Minister of Finance. High Izbo! Thank you very much for the vote of support for this good bill, because indeed this next element of ordering is important and that is what we, as the United Right, want to do, in every area, where possible, even in small matters, take further steps, so that the Polish state is more efficient and more effective. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u142	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the amendment of the law - the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Public Finance and some other laws, contained in print No 1086, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm, based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, a deadline has been set for the committees to submit a report enabling it to be discussed at this meeting. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 on the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws (prints Nos 1013 and 1122). I would very much like to ask Mr Bolesław Piecha to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Health Committee, I would like to present a report on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws. This report is contained in print No 1122. The law, which was submitted by the government, was addressed to the Members in print no. 1013. At its meeting on 15 April, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Sejm referred the above draft to the Health Committee for review. The Health Commission has met twice in this matter. At the first meeting on 13 April, the first reading was held. The committee adopted a proposal to reject the project at first reading. The Sejm did not share the views of the Members, the committee and sent the draft to be re-examined. We met on April 22nd and re-examined the entire bill. What's the bill about? This bill is basically an ordering act. I don't really understand what the opposition is talking about when it comes to some sort of centralization. Well, health plans, health maps exist in Poland and were introduced exactly in August 2014. - so not by this government, not by this parliamentary team - in the benefit law. It assumed that at the level of voivodships specific maps of health needs were created. This law is ordering and these health maps will, of course, continue to be constructed at this level, but the entire preparation procedure and supervision will be directed centrally by the Minister of Health. Poland is not a Federation country, it is a single country. In Poland, in Podkarpacie, in Silesia or in West Pomerania, COVID suffers from a similar illness, more or less similar is epidemiology, so there is no reason not to create a single map of health needs, of course under the aegis of those who have the highest competence and substantive skills. The Minister of Health has basically commissioned three very important institutions: the National Institute of Public Health, the former Polish Hygiene Institute, which enjoys more than 100 years of tradition, an institute that deals with public health, the National Health Fund, because for 18 years he has been carrying all the data on diseases, epidemiology, costs, etc., and the Agency for Medical Technology Assessment and Tarification, because for several years she has been engaged not only in assessing the suitability of the treatment data, but also in their taxiing, i.e. determining the costs. Of course, the plans will be mainly directed by voivodship centres and voivodships, while the Minister of Health will be decisive, based on the criteria contained in this amendment of the law. One new thing that's here, and I think it's very right, is what's called a transformation plan, a national transformation plan. This is new. Why do we need maps if we can't do them? The maps existed, and no one could realize them specifically, because they were from Sas to Las and not necessarily compatible in the environment of our entire country. These transformation plans, the national transformation, they assume one thing. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we've been in a pandemic situation for over a year now, and we already know that classic treatments, classic medical procedures, will be rapidly accelerated. Who else a few years ago thought telemedicine would come in with such great momentum? And this telemedicine we're not gonna get rid of, she's gonna be with us, because it improves a lot of diagnostics and treatment processes. Therefore, these voivodship health needs plans will be reviewed, evaluated by the institutions I mentioned, and the Minister will decide what health needs plans are, at the same time to be able to create those transformation changes that are necessary, i.e. the appropriate facilities and infrastructure, people, the need for medical technology, also not everywhere, but in selected centres, because we know that some medical therapies can be very expensive and therefore must be dedicated where they are best performed. During the committee's work, we accepted some amendments from Members of the opposition. I would like to thank the Left, in particular, who has bothered and tabled certain amendments. We leaned on them, discussed them, and took some into account. On the other hand, the Civic Coalition was not inclined to make any amendments, I repeat, no amendments. He's probably gonna report them now, no one knows why. It is not known why, because there was time for this meeting on 22 April. We've been leaning on the part. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These left-wing things, and we think that... [[♪ The bell ♪]] With full awareness as the rapporteur of the committee, I can recommend to the High House the adoption of a government bill amending the Act on health care provision from print 1122. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u144	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, print No. 1013, as amended, print No. 1122. The bill under investigation is an amendment to the Law of 27 August 2004 on public-funded healthcare provision. In particular, it aims to improve the system of strategic planning for health care, i.e. to introduce organisational changes to improve the operation of the system and to ensure equal access to public-funded healthcare services. It changes the procedure for mapping health needs and introduces transformation plans, national and voivodship, in place of priorities for regional health policy. The Minister and local government units will develop a draft health policy programme on the basis of a map of health needs and available epidemiological data. The Health Need Map will be a key document to identify health needs and challenges for the organisation of the healthcare system. It will be the foundation of the creation of a national transformation plan. The national transition plan will be developed, established, monitored and updated by the Minister of Health. It will take into account recommended directions of action indicated on the map and resulting from other strategy papers in health care. It will cover activities within 5 years with a mid-term evaluation in the third year of validity. It will identify health needs, challenges, planned year or years in which they will be implemented, implementation actors, estimated costs, expected results, indicators of implementation of individual actions. The Minister will forward the draft national transformation plan to the Social Dialogue Council, the President of the Fund, the President of the Agency and the Director of the National Institute of Public Health - State Hygiene Institute, National Health Consultants, the Director of the National Institute of Cardiology, the Director of the National Institute of Oncology for Opinion, with a deadline of 30 days from the date of receipt of the opinion. Voivodship transformation plans will be drawn up by voivodships for voivodship areas, taking into account the national transformation plan and recommended directions of actions indicated on the map and resulting from other strategic documents in health care, in cooperation with the voivodship council established to develop this project for health needs. This plan will identify health needs, challenges for coordinated actions at voivodship level, actions themselves, planned year or years in which these activities will be implemented, entities responsible for implementation, estimated cost, expected results. Wojewóda will present the project of the provincial plan to the voivodship marshal, the convention of powiats of the given voivodship, the voivodship consultants in health care, the president of the fund and the regional council of social dialogue for opinion, with a deadline for submitting comments: 30 days from the date of receipt. It will then forward this proposal to assess the Minister responsible for Health by the last day of February of the year preceding the first year of application of the plan. The Minister responsible for Health shall, within 3 months of receipt of the voivodship plan project, evaluate the project in terms of compliance with the map, purpose, adequacy of the actions adopted and then approve the voivodship plan project or transmit comments to that project to the voivodship. Health care in Poland does not work well. The contested law will allow directional changes to be made. This law does not refer to specific methods of diagnosis, treatment, but sets out how the necessary changes are to be made in order to ensure equal access to public-funded healthcare for all. The state must provide patients with a universal and efficient comprehensive health care system that facilitates daily life. It is important to cooperate with medical providers at all levels, i.e. family doctor, rescue system, county hospitals, voivodship and clinical hospitals. The transformation plans that have been developed can give this an orderly character. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u146	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Rajmund Miller will speak on behalf of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, of the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, prints 1013 and 1122. The provisions of this law aim at centralising the management of the healthcare system. Trying to improve the creation of health map reduces the possibility of impact of local environments on the shape of these records and eliminates voivodship consultants from voivodship councils for health needs. The representatives of local governments and the bureau of the General Medical Council took a negative position on the proposed changes. The change in the role and composition of the Voivodship Council on health needs should be negatively assessed and given only an advisory role instead of previous action in agreement with the voivodship. The participation of local governments has been reduced in such a significant way that there will be only one representative of the Marshal government office and one representative of the county authorities. According to the new wording of the article. 95b The Minister responsible for Health shall draw up, establish, monitor and update a national transition plan taking into account the recommended directions of action identified in the health needs map and resulting from other health strategy papers. On the other hand, there are so many understatements in this bill, so much sloppyness that it does not really indicate what documents are involved. The intention of centralisation is also evidenced by the fact that the President of the National Health Fund will extend the powers of the President of the National Health Fund with a significant reduction in the powers of directors of the Regional Health Funds, including in the decision-making of access to healthcare services. The Act is a centralisation of management, but centralisation and simultaneous abandonment of stakeholders' opinions and independent experts, although it provides discipline - it can provide, but does not ensure - and speed of action, while denying the possibility of obtaining potential valuable information which should be obtained from all possible sources, including direct stakeholders. The proposal does not contain provisions on the scope of changes to the system within the framework of the transformation plan, the financial means that would ensure this transformation, and the effects of such changes on medicinal entities. In addition, the provisions of this law are highly imprecise, since the map of health needs and transformation plans will not be of a general legal nature. It would be important to indicate in the project which tools proposed by the Minister of Health these activities will be implemented. Thus, responsibility for testing, shape and implementation of the document into voivodships and actors involved in this implementation was shifted. The costs proposed in the draft amendments to the Law on Benefits contained in the explanatory memorandum do not include estimates of the implementation of the transformation plans. There is also no indication of the sources of funding for the implementation of these plans. In this respect, the project contains only an estimate of the costs associated with the technical preparation of the map of health needs and transformation plans. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, these costs will be borne by Part 46: Health and Part 85: Province. In total, these costs were estimated at 60,561,000. PLN in the years 2021 to 2030. This will only be the cost of covering the employment of workers drawing up maps of health needs. We have too much money. Now, Mr Piecha, I will answer why the Civic Coalition, the Platform, has not introduced any amendments to this. Because there is no way to make any adjustments to this bubble, sir. This law proves that PiS is suffering from local governments, PiS strives to reduce and best eliminate self-government in Poland. It's more like the Platform's got a PiS condition. Member, a little culture, I didn't bother you. But the Member doesn't have his nose covered. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill... Mask. There you go, Member, take the floor here. Then there's nothing to talk about. Please extend my time. Mr President, please continue. But... But, sir, you sometimes interfere with the speeches, including the Prime Minister of the Polish Government. I expect you to pay attention and extend my time. Proceed. I'm not gonna prolong my time. Ha, ha, ha! And what are you happy about? It's nice to bother someone, isn't it? Culture. But don't overdo it. Mr President, a little culture, really. You're addressing a woman. Oh, my God. Ladies and gentlemen, the example of the Opolskie voivodship is a proof of the effective functioning of local governments. When the Ministry, centrally managing [[♪ The bell ♪]] By pandemic, everything collapsed, in the Opole Voivodeship the local government bought 69 respirators and spent 600 million on hospitals, not only marshals. This is proof of how centrally managed health care works. Thank you very much. The Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition will vote against this law, against it in its entirety. [[Applause]] Thank you, sir. And I expect you to intervene in such situations.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u148	Mr President, I ask you to remain calm. Thank you very much. High Izbo! Because we're approaching the voting block, we're gonna stop processing this point. We'll come back to him after the votes. I'm ordering a four-minute break, and then there's a voting block. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 56 hours 14]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to proceed with the quorum because we are ahead of the vote. I therefore ask all of you to press any button to confirm your presence at the meeting. You're welcome. Wait a minute. Thank you. 443 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for the agenda. - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens with a point: - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of preparation and consultations on the National Reconstruction Plan, - Coalition Parliamentary Club Left by points: - First reading of the parliamentary bill amending the law - Penal Code, - Information from the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General on the implementation of the Law of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion as it appears after the entry into force of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 October 2020 (sign. K 1/20), - First reading of the parliamentary bill on safe abortion and on education on health and sexuality, - First reading of the parliamentary bill amending the law on family planning, protection of the human fetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of implementation of the Strategy for Responsible Development, - Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives by a point: - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the adoption of the National Reconstruction Plan on the basis of which Poland will receive PLN 250 billion, - Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 by point: - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers concerning the detailed provisions of the National Reconstruction Plan, the list of proposed reforms and the rules for the allocation of funds between central and local authorities. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We proceed to the vote on the proposal for a draft law amending the law - Penal Code. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 183 - for, 249 - against, 16 stopped. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed to the vote on the proposal for the implementation of the Law of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion following the entry into force of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 October 2020 (sign. K 1/20). Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. It's not working. It's broken. Something's stuck. I know there isn't, ladies and gentlemen, I know. But it looks nice. We've got it, ladies and gentlemen, haven't we? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 198 - for, 246 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed to the vote on the request to supplement the agenda with a point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on safe abortion and on education on health and sexuality. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 177 for, 252 against, 20 abstentions. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed to the vote on the request to supplement the agenda with a point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the law on family planning, the protection of the human fetus and the conditions for the admissibility of abortion. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 193 - for, 246 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the vote on the proposal on information on the state of preparation and on the consultations on the National Plan for Reconstruction. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 216 - for, 230 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We are voting on the proposal for information on the detailed provisions of the National Reconstruction Plan, the list of proposed reforms and the rules for the allocation of funds between central and local authorities. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 221 - for, 232 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We are voting on the request for information on the state of implementation of the Responsible Development Strategy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 219 - for, 229 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We are voting on the request for information on the adoption of the National Reconstruction Plan, on the basis of which Poland will receive PLN 250 billion. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 221 for, 227 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 1186. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 1186). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 1186, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 417 - for, 12 - against, 16 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. We continue to consider item 5 on the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws. Please take the floor of Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club of the Left. Mr. President, wait a minute. Please be at the podium, but we will allow the Members who want to leave the room so that you can speak calmly. Just a second, okay? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We continue to discuss the draft law amending the Act on Health Benefits. The Left Club presented its position at first reading - just because of me - and it has not changed. I'm just gonna fill them in a little bit, especially with regard to my previous speakers. Well, the Left adopted a different strategy than other opposition clubs. Like other clubs and opposition wheels, we were definitely against this project, treating it by quoting Miller's friend as a legal bullshit. Nevertheless, considering that probably the United Right will accept it, we have tried, effectively, some changes to the bill. I have another proposal on behalf of the Left Club that I will make to your marshal, and at the same time I explain to President Latos, with whom we have discussed that we have a meeting of the Health Committee in less than an hour, so we can probably discuss it in committee now without the need to convene a Health Committee tomorrow. You're welcome. I've handed over your proposal to the marshal. Now I'm going to refer to some very turbulent events about this problem. At the committee's first reading meeting with Mr Rajmund Miller, with whom I spoke earlier, we agreed that we were together against, we agreed, and in agreement with PSL, with other opposition Members, we tabled a motion to reject it in its entirety and, to our surprise, the argument convinced some of the Members of the Right who voted in favour, and this was rejected with one vote. Then it returned to the session of the Sejm, which decided to read again. This motion has been passed again by one vote, which is why we are proceeding further. No, no, no. My voice hasn't been counted. Maybe, but that's another topic. Now about the amendments that have been made. The majority of the Health Committee and the positive position of the government expressed by Minister Gadomski were achieved. First of all, we cut the time from 7 years to 5 years, because 7 years is too long for such an experimental approach, and after 4 years of evaluation, we also accelerated the so-called year. the mid-term report. The idea of the Left was taken into account and introduced into national authorities, although the director of the National Institute of Cardiology and Oncology, because doctors were not there at all, nowhere - the state officials themselves. At the voivodship level, we managed to pass this project on to voivodship consultants, and we managed to make a few other minor changes, thanks to the favor of the government too, we need to be fair. Unfortunately, it was not possible to leave the Ombudsman, to make many other changes. On the other hand, what I am proposing right now is an important change, also on behalf of the Left Club: so that local governments can finance not only guaranteed benefits, but healthcare services, because there are many very important but not guaranteed benefits, for example in vitro. I've made such an amendment so we can unlock it. I've got another minute. In general, for the right hand, some absolute approach is that everything that is state is better. It's not better, somewhere it can, and certainly not... It's not better. ...in health care, and in this direction it goes that officials - and initially without doctors, local governments, associations of health employers, I don't know, the medical chamber which, said about it, expressed a negative opinion, other professional authorities - will set out their own health needs plans, will determine voivodship, national transformation plans. I'm sure the so-called one will be coming soon. Nationalisation of hospitals, this is the important one, maybe the last step before full control in the hands of the Minister of Health, also over the money we are so looking forward to, from the Fund for Reconstruction. Full control of the Minister of Health, it's not like that, the ones closest to... The patient's interest is not here, the average patient will be the most cared for by local authorities (the bell), not those from the level of the Minister of Health. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u151	Thank you. Dear Marshal, My club's position regarding these changes is unchanged - we are against for one very basic and important reason. These changes seek to centralise the health system, they are the next step that is being made. These changes reduce the decision-making of local government, including professional ones. doctors, but also consultants, universities, not to mention the freedom to conduct business. This project is the next step. We remember that, perhaps a year ago in this House, a decision was taken to strengthen the evaluation instrument, so-called. IOWISZ, has strengthened decision-making through the Investment Purpose Assessment Facility, at the expense of, among others. private health system, freedom to conduct business. Here's the next step. I remember when the maps of health needs were created, it was supposed to be an instrument that helps us, but it was supposed to be decided by local communities. The voivodship councils were arranged so that the representation would be as broad as possible and that this discussion would be complete. Unfortunately, the number of projects is limited, but this is not the worst. The voivodship councils will mainly be represented by representatives of the government. If in a given voivodship the Marshal of the PiS has power, and in a convention the majority has also Law and Justice, then there may be such a situation that 13 members of the 12 will be nominated by the PiS. Is this the pluralism for which generations fought? Definitely not. I believe that this is contrary to the political principles of our country, because in the Constitution we have a provision on the decentralisation of public authority. Since local government has a market share of forty-several percent of stationary medicine, it cannot be treated in such a way that there are practically no representatives of the local government in the Councils to decide the shape of the health system. Why was it forgotten about the rectors, who also run extremely important health care facilities, and their clinics operate on the basis of branches, which are most often located in voivodship hospitals? For me, it's incomprehensible why such important people are not in these bodies. Not to mention the public health representatives, the private health sector, which during the epidemic was a rescue for many patients who, although paying health contributions, were treated at their own expense, and could only do so by the fact that the person who was conducting an economic activity decided to conduct a therapeutic entity. The part of the voivodeship is too big. As the voivodship offices proved during the pandemic, we saw. Especially at the beginning, the danger could be observed, for example, the evacuation of social assistance homes or mismanagement decisions in the health care system. I think it's a warning that should have us as individuals who shape the health system... They shouldn't go in that direction. I'm not gonna mention the NFZ. Law and Justice said that this institution had to be liquidated, and today it is strengthened by de facto centralizing its competences. Regional troops are once again marginalized and have virtually nothing to say. This transformation plan de facto is a plan for centralising the health system. Once there were regional health policy priorities, today it is remodeling into an instrument where you can manually control what, where you can locate. We all know this is part of a wider plan. This amendment is needed to ensure that, when the next law on ownership changes in the health care system comes in, the system will close and you will be able to decide from Warsaw, from a street not far from here, what, where, what branch is to be created, what is not to be established. I have doubts about the structure of some actions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause I don't know how you're gonna push some decisions, but I'm gonna ask that in the round of questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, a parliamentary circle of the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u153	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listen to all these discussions, and I feel like I'm sitting around people who are walking on their hands, and the discussions are going on, which fingers are going to run, which hand is going to move forward: left or right, or can it jump on these hands. The idea of getting on your feet doesn't come to anybody's mind, because then the entire Ministry of Health would lose their jobs, the Department of Medicine Policy would go to prison, they would lose their jobs in the health departments of voivodships, powiats, municipalities and someplace else. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Committee on Health would also have nothing to discuss. Everyone says that if not the minister, maybe the local governments would do it, maybe the rectors would do it - I heard it here - maybe it would... No one agrees to one basic thing to be treated by a client, a patient. The patient should be ruled, not by local governments, rectors, minister or Sejm. Health care needs to be given to patients. The one who pays is the one who decides. And then it will be much more cost-effective - much more cost-effective and better. This project, of course, leads to further centralization, which is a deterioration of this system. So it's about walking on one arm or something, or maybe three hands, I don't know. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see what the consequences are. We now have a great example - the fight against COVID. Including death on COVID and death so-called. Poland is in the first place in the world in terms of mortality per capita, i.e. due to the government's activities. In the first place. This is the result of this activity. And let's not let the Left nod here because she wanted the government to do even more. So the losses would be even greater. The loss doesn't come from the government doing the wrong thing, it's from the fact that he does it at all and doesn't just leave it to patients. Winnicki's friend might show his own point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I read a bon mot on the Internet before coming here, on the platform, but how real. The Polish government made no mistakes, the World Health Organization joked. The World Health Organization made no mistakes, the Polish government joked. That's how COVID's policy could be praised. [[Applause]] and anti-health, which has been implemented for the last more than a year. This could be the way to celebrate the policy of lockdown in health care, not only in the economy, but also in health care, through which tens of thousands of Poles died and died. This is how I could celebrate the situation personally known to me, that a hospital worker for 30 years -- a hospital worker for 30 years -- who's been talking about how much suffering patients in the wards, locked up, not having adequate care that family can't visit, this person with 30 years internship at the hospital tells me this: If my 90-year-old mom was in the ward... if she had COVID, I wouldn't have given her to the hospital, I would have treated her at home alone, because I know that I would have given her better conditions than the ones in this hospital. That's the condition you've put in this lockdown with the health system. And don't tell me that all the overtime deaths are because of COVID, because not even half of them are because of COVID - because not half of them - because of your fatal policy. You are the successors of a terrible policy when it comes to health care, Platforms, SLDs, etc. 30 years of neglect - you are one great coalition in this area. What's more, you have no idea how to change it. What you presented on Saturday in this new mess is not an offer either. Because increasing and adding to a system that doesn't work, [[Applause]] No. will increase the quality of health care services in a jump. It won't rise if you don't change the system. By remaining in the NFZ system, you simply add to something that doesn't work, you just grind more money. The effect will be absolutely disproportionate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u156	Thank you very much. Is Mr Andrzej Sosnierz here? I'm still here. Remote. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]] I'm here. Can you hear me? Now it's my turn. Oh, good, 'cause it didn't look right. Excuse me, Member. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. But it's remote. No, I'm sorry. Look, there's a new system that's sometimes wrong. Impossible. At the moment, Paulina Hennig-Kloska, near Poland 2050, was no longer mistaken. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about a law that changes certain principles in public-funded healthcare provision. We are talking, in fact, about what should be changed in order to learn from the last - probably a year and a half from now - the fight against pandemics and effects, and basically the collapse of the health system, which not only exposed, but also highlighted all the problems that have accumulated in healthcare for many years. Does this project bring any hope? No. If we are even leaning over a map of health needs, we know well that its first installment did not fulfil any hope in it through limitations of analyses, lack of recommendations, no indication of measures that would have to be taken at regional or local or national level. The whole network of hospitals you've created just didn't work out either. And this project doesn't change that either, because it doesn't have any solutions that would be epochal, groundbreaking, that would meet the expectations of the needs of the map. But there's another leg. On the weekend, when you presented your new great plan for Poland, you exposed yourselves completely, because what I know about the Law and Justice after the weekend is that in the coming years it does not intend to spend more money on health, although we all know that not only do we need to repair the engine, but also add more fuel to it. You're not gonna do this. No, no, no. Not all of them. Because your plan predicts, which I think many people are missing, that Law and Justice are going to increase healthcare spending, but not until the next term, because you're talking about 6%. GDP for health in 2023, Minister, and 7% GDP on health in 2027, while eliminating the write-off of the health contribution on income tax, thus obtaining an additional 7.75%. So you want to pull 80 billion more out of the citizens' pockets, Minister, but not put them to good health. You're shutting down the space to raise money for your health, but you're not going to use it entirely for your health. You can't do that. COVID has exposed all our problems to us. In Poland, more than 120 thousand died in normative ranges of mortality. persons. We are the country with the worst result in this regard in the European Union. We are at the level of Third World countries, and you tell Poles on the weekend that you want to increase your health money in 2023 or 2027? So what are you guys gonna do with that money for six years? You can't do that. What's the responsibility here, Minister? Where is the responsibility for the health and life of Poles? So what if we get 100 zlotys more pensions if the Poles continue to die in line for doctors? You can't do that. Today, here and now, we need to add PLN 30.40 billion and find this money in the budget. We can't put it off for later, because the senior deserves decent and quick medical attention, but also a young man who's suddenly gonna need it. Are these changes gonna change that? They won't. Because you're not pointing out what you want to do to make things better? This is not a comprehensive recovery plan, you are simply centralizing certain processes - whether it is a national transformation plan or a change in the purchase plans for benefits, or as part of a health needs map, set up a council in which the Minister with the President of the NFZ will decide on certain issues. You've already shown that you can't centrally manage your health, and that's your biggest problem today. The health in your hands is getting worse. The central system is down. You made a network of hospital maps that didn't bring any positive changes, and the problems got tense. We have underfunded county hospitals in which COVID has further deepened the financial crisis. If we do not change that, Minister, the Poles will continue to die in line for hospitals, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why we do not sign under this law, as we did not sign at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I mean, it's been twice as much money.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u158	Thank you very much. We will associate with Mr Andrzej Sosnierz from the Polish Cases Circle of Poselski. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In one thing, I agree with the Member. Namely, that the centralization tendencies are already a longer history, not just the history of the rule of the United Right. Yes, sir. We've been centralizing health care for a long time, and what are the results? We show exceptional perseverance in ignoring the experiences that occur by sight and that we have within our grasp. Lately, the fight against COVID. It's all centralized. Centralised health services and total abdication of the state in terms of the protection of citizens' lives and health. That mortality that's already been quoted is shocking, and it didn't have to be that way. And that's all in this centralized healthcare system. So we're centralizing, let's centralize even more. About the advantages of this bill. The bill has, in spite of appearances, advantages. Namely, it shows that the Hospital Network Act failed, did not produce results. Thank you for admitting this because we need to prepare a transformation bill. This law also shows that the so-called law. Jupiter whether these regulations with regard to Jupiter have also failed because they need to be improved. It is therefore a declaration of failure. But let's keep digging, let's keep going in the same direction. In order to transform the hospital system in Poland, there is no need for a new law. It's within reach. Just contract health treatments or not contract them and the transformation will take place. This tool has been in hand for many years and is not used at all. It just shows that it's not easy to transform healthcare, but you don't need a new tool. There will be committees, there will be a huge variety of debates on this subject, and in fact it will bring nothing. This bill shows that we put all hope in the structure, that if we change the structure of health care, it will improve. No. Health care and its results should be measured by a result rather than by a structure. So what if we build another clinic that's gonna renovate the hospital? It is important how the healthcare system heals and results. And these results include: He showed COVID. I'll show you what the thought error is when you build this whole idea. Namely it begins with a map of health needs, which are not maps of health needs. First, we need to define what is a health need? Suppose we agree on what health needs are and maps will be created, then, of course, maps will be ideal for this definition. But these maps - let's assume that they are done optimally - will be used to create transformation plans. You can presume that the transformation plan, made by the same organ, in the hands of the same organ, or voivodeship, will also apply, implement the ideal plan, optimal plan, right? Or he'll have to face the possibility that there's no money for all this. But let's assume that the transformation plan will be perfect, too. We're about to make a shopping plan based on a transformation plan. If we make it perfect, of course we'll go bankrupt in no time because there's no money for these ideals. Therefore, at some point you will have to move away from an earlier document, i.e. either skip maps and make a real transition plan, or implement a shopping plan, because the transformation plan will not be feasible. But what's gonna be dangerous about all this? After such a transformation plan, there will be claims of those who would like to supplement the health care structures with what is supposed to be missing there. The question also arises: Who will pay for this? Who's gonna be in charge of this plan? The owners of these hospitals? If a branch is missing, will the local government be obliged to invest, will we turn to public health services or the voivodeship? Someone's gonna have to pay for that. Who's gonna be in charge of this plan? Most likely if the local government As owner he will feel obliged, he will extend his hand to the voivodeship: if you have adopted such a plan, then give the money for it. It's not here. And they're gonna start. [[♪ The bell ♪]] endless stories. In the end, the voivode will probably start building these structures, which means we will rebuild state health care. To conclude, I believe that, for these reasons, because of these internal contradictions, this law is harmful and it is best not to simply adopt it. I call on my colleagues to reason. This is the next step, behind this bill will follow the next laws and claims that will need to be implemented. This isn't the end, this is the beginning of the whole band. Circle of Polish Cases will oppose the adoption of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u160	Thank you very much, sir. Coming through, ladies and gentlemen, to ask questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. The first question will be asked by Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is another step towards centralising and nationalising the health system in our country. That's the next step. With regard to the development of maps of health needs, your improvements directly limit the possibility of impact of local environments on the shape of these maps and eliminate voivodship consultants from the composition of voivodship health advice. As is well known, maps of health needs should be created and analysed in a given voivodship, because it is at local level that the health needs of society can be best and precisely defined. Why are the tasks to carry out the transformation plans described in this act extremely briefly? It is not known what tasks will be concerned, what level of detail they will be and what level of impact they will be. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the reality of health care? Why do the costs proposed in the draft amendments to the Law on Benefits contained in the explanatory memorandum not include estimates of the implementation of the transformation plans? Why are there no sources of funding for the implementation of these plans? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I'm quitting. He's quitting. We therefore invite Mr Jan Szopiński, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum, the Ministry stated that there is a need to provide for a broad discussion of health needs and actions that should be implemented at voivodship level, and the need to provide conditions for consensus from both the organisers of the public payer system and the providers. Unfortunately, this justification is directly contrary to both the design constraints as regards the diversity of the environments that can be represented in the Council and the limits of the powers of the Council itself, i.e. resignation from compulsory participation of health consultants and other external experts. Unfortunately, all this work is only suitable to actually show, as the Ministry described (The Bell) that the previous map of health needs did not justify the functioning of health services. And so it is with this proposal, this is the further, complete centralization of health services in our country.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u164	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is basically another bill in which the government, the majority of PiS-owska proves that it will not deal with the social partners, that it has a monopoly on knowledge that there is no need for decision-making consultation with entities. As far as maps of health needs are concerned, this is not only a question of care itself, but also a question of financing this care. The exclusion from this process of representatives of local governments, voivodships, powiats, exclusion of voivodship consultants and, in principle, the transfer of this obligation to the central decision of the NFZ or the Ministry of Health is absolutely a mistake. This leads to an absolute centralization of the system and, in my opinion, is the first step towards centralising all health care. It's a step in a very bad direction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u167	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two questions. Firstly, I would like to ask the Minister to indicate where the legal mechanism for implementing the recommended orientations set out in the maps is in this law. And the second point: please explain how the transition plan can provide the basis for an effective imposition of obligations to implement certain actions, e.g. investments for entities that, for example, local self-government units have constitutional independence guaranteed, not to mention those that form economic operators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u168	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! IOWISZ's regulation extended the possibility of making investments. Now the proposed plan doesn't take into account... A plan to meet whose needs? If the patients are, where are they? If there are no medical consultants, who will actually recognize these needs? NFZ? All the advice you're talking about in this bill is a team of administrators. This is of course necessary, but for this there must be someone, there must be a body, there must be people who know the needs of patients who are able to answer them. Meanwhile, there is only a representative of the ombudsperson on this board. That's really not enough. So my question is: How do you imagine the actual recognition of the health needs of the inhabitants? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u171	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The idea of PiS to cure health care is to take over 300 local hospitals. It is directly on page 262 of KPO, among others. about another agency, the Hospital Development Agency. But what is it? It is not about healing health care - it is about 300 executive positions. Mr Sobolewski could say more about this. But it's about orders, billion-dollar orders. And he could say more about that, among other things. Deputy Prime Minister Sasin, who downloaded the world's largest aircraft and useless masks. After all, you could talk about all this for hours, what's been going on for the past year and a half, how the PiS government spent money. Now he wants to lay a hand on what the residents of counties, municipalities and cities worked for. And that's why our opposition is quite clear. I only have one question for the Minister: Who will be the head of the Hospital Development Agency? Will it be Mr. Sasin, or will it be Mr. Izdebski called the arms dealer? I'd like to hear, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who will be headed by the Hospital Development Agency. Thank you. [[Applause]] Can you? Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u172	Thank you very much. We know for sure that Michael Szczerba will not stand, because, as I know him and know his views, he will say a few words of truth in this matter. There you go, Civil Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u173	Dear Marshal, I don't aspire to this function. I'd rather look at PiS' hands. That is why there will be specific questions, since the Minister is with us today. On 23 December 2020, Minister Niedzielski set up a team for the preparation of a draft law on the restructuring of hospitals. The Minister here has prepared the restructuring plans, and in fact the acquisition of municipal hospitals, district hospitals. There are 301 in Poland. This regulation also assumes that you want to create a body of managers in health care, i.e. certified managers who will replace directors of medicinal entities. Minister! I'd like you to report here today before the High Chamber, a report on what the work of the team you chair is like. At what stage are the assumptions for the bill? And when there's a draft hospital bill [[♪ The bell ♪]] the county, and really their takeover, the location of PiS's paw on the next outposts? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u174	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Questions for the Minister. Because it is said that this bill will replace the existing organisation of health maps, so my question is, in what really the current law has not been implemented. You spoke very little about this at the Health Committee meeting. The descriptive generals that you didn't, because no, I don't think that's enough. You always say that you like specifics, so we would like to know very specifically: What was the goal, what was achieved and what did not succeed? What do you want to fix with the new bill, and how do you want to fix it? And the question, Minister, is whether, in connection with this new law, there will be a lot more orders issued by the Minister, through which these commands - and not through laws, regulations or regulations - are issued then money, billions. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that you don't like self-governments at all levels has been seen since the beginning of this term. But this is normal because people in Poland usually don't like those who do better, who work better and who are just better at what they do. But now you touch a very sensitive matter, you touch a matter of health and life of Poles. You guys, who let over 70,000 and some say as much as 150,000. Poles died during the pandemic. You who have led Poland to take third place in Europe and 11th place in the world when it comes to the deaths of people during the pandemic. It's kind of scary. And you want to reform health care. I'd like you to come to Szczecin and see what your hospitals look like, which is clinical, in buildings still remembering World War I. And that's how these hospitals look, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's like they're from World War I. And what do voivodship hospitals look like? The 21st century Gentlemen, think about what you're doing because you Poles won't forget it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Are solutions adopted today, and especially in the article. 9a, which states that in order to meet local health needs, the local government will adopt an appropriate programme, e.g. The in vitro fertility program will be able to continue to finance from its own budget... The question is whether she will be able to ask the Fund for a partial refund if, of course, this programme is also based on a map of health needs. In many places today it is the local governments that have appeared as individuals that support young people and their opportunities when it comes to their own children. This program is the only hope. This is what happens in Wielkopolska (Dzwonek), where the local government of Wielkopolska Voivodship finances it. That's the way it's supposed to be in Gniezno, but the Greater Poland Voivode is blocking itself. This was the case with the first program, which fortunately operates in Częstochowa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If there is anything even more screwed up in health care, this project is an example of this. The Act on the provision of public-funded health care is, ladies and gentlemen, centralization of health services, the elimination of voivodship consultants, a limitation, or actually enslavement of local governments, who know best the map of the needs of their own regions. According to Art. 95b The Minister of Health will develop and update the National Health Need Plan and the costs, ladies and gentlemen, of the staff drawing up the map of needs are 60 000 561,000. Millions. Here's what you're saying. Millions, yes. 60,561,000. Yeah, you're right. This money should go to health care (the bell) and not to officials. I have a question. If the Minister is going to draw up a health plan, isn't it going to be like with RFIL that the money goes where you rule, and you're going to treat those who voted for you? This project is extremely unfair, it's a bullshit we're not going to support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u182	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the following question: Why will the opinion of the local and medical community on the map of health needs not be binding? It is these environments that have knowledge, experience and should have a real impact on the mapping of health needs. Why don't you listen and hear the voice of experts and experts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I cordially invite you to the Opole Voivodeship, you will see how the Civic Platform, the PSL and the German Minority manage health services. Your business card is the closed sanatorium in Jarnołtówk, your business card is the closed sanatorium in Suchy Bora, which you sold to a German company for a developer. Your business card is to turn a voivodship hospital into a commercial law company, a year ago you wanted to close the SOR in Opole. Thanks to the health minister, this was saved. And today you're talking about the fact that local governments manage health services very well? Maybe so, but certainly not the one mentioned by Mr Rajmund Miller, in Opole Voivodeship, where Mr Andrzej B., the head of the Civic Platform, is head of the voivodeship, accused by the prosecutor's office, who was lying with Mr Rafał Trzaskowski a few days ago, instead of taking care of health care. You eliminate and privatize health care. Come to Opole Voivodeship. It's a shame what you're doing there. The platform, the PSL and the German Minority - you are collapsing health care, you are the last to teach us how to manage health care. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Hardie-Douglas, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project, this amendment of the law, is part of a larger whole, which could be summarised as a common denominator - the spoiling of health care. We have heard from the rapporteur a very curious translation of the centralisation of healthcare management. We have heard from Mr Piecha that Poland is not a Federation country and that it does not understand why the opposition is talking about some sort of centralisation. So-called. In fact, the amendment of the law is a reversal of the original originator's thinking at all. De facto 100% Member States shall take responsibility for the planning of regions, inter alia. investment in healthcare. Maps of health needs are supposed to be consulted with marshals and old-timers, but they're just opinions. That's your specialty, isn't it? Once again, the PiS will arbitraryly take key decisions for the functioning of health care and then claim that these decisions have been consulted extensively. The decision will be taken by the Minister of Health. Faith of the PiS that the decisions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which fall in Warsaw, have the advantage over the proposals developed by the local government, it is completely deceptive. This bill is another example of ruin, destruction of local governments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u189	It is known that hospitals and their future are the most emotional. I wanted to ask the Minister, as a practicing doctor of primary health care, what are the Minister's intentions regarding basic health care? We know that the most money goes to hospitals - and so it must be - county or clinical, but the most services are provided at this lowest level. I remind you that POZ is funded by the National Health Fund, but there are rarely independent public health establishments there. As a general rule, these are employees, i.e. private entities, possibly family doctors' practices. Are changes in primary healthcare expected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u190	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Project applicants indicate that it is to order the management process. What exactly do you want to sort out? You want to hand out your principal's seats? Maybe. I think it's about making public contracts - it's about, for example, respirators, masks - from their own, to their preferential rates - for a double price - and from their intermediaries. By eliminating night and Christmas medical attention, you paralyzed the S.R.S. You don't care about patients. Poland has the highest mortality rate. The excess mortality rate is over 100,000. Deaths. You tell for most of them because you threw away money, you couldn't manage it to provide proper care for Poles. How much has the hospital debt increased for six years? About PLN 5, 6, 7 billion? How much longer have the queues gone? 2, 3 months or 5 months do you have to wait for an appointment with a specialist? How many Poles and Poles have died since October 2020? Give up your resignations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't create a health system anymore, because the health of Poles is in bad hands right now. Health protection is another issue where unfortunately you have failed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u192	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is known that health is a subject that causes huge emotions, such as. in the case of my previous speaker. At the same time, it is an area of greatest concern for both politicians and Poles themselves. I wouldn't want to be a politician when discussing health. There were a lot of strong words here. She'd like to ask specific questions, and I'm asking for answers. At what stage are the maps of health needs being developed? Who does this work? On the basis of what source materials are they made? Is not preparing health maps an important cause of patient access to radiation and comprehensive oncology treatment? Is improving the availability of oncology patients for radiotherapy, among others. in the Łódź voivodship, i.e. in my voivodship, is conditional on the development of maps of health needs, or will there be (the bell) before they are completed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Latos, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Honestly, after all these years in Parliament, I thought nothing could surprise me anymore. However, I must admit that such a level of incompetence, unpreparedness, ignorance of the bill is probably never or for a long time. If you are critical of the maps of health needs, I would like to tell you and remind you that seven years ago this country, the PO-PSL coalition adopted this law. It's not a new law, it's just an amendment to the current law. You probably don't know that, so it's worth remembering. The voivodship consultant is appointed by the voivodship and cooperates with the voivodship. You probably don't know that either. Someone said that night and Christmas help had been removed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is completely absurd at all. This aid was functioning, functioning and functioning. Minister, please remind me when the Health Maps Act was adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We often hear words in this House about new programmes, new billions, medical supplements, hospitals. We also hear how important it is to support those who fight on the front line against COVID. Those are important words. It is good that they fall, but these words should be followed by deeds. Minister, let me give you a concrete example. It is about the Śląskie voivodship and the addition to salaries for medical rescue teams for work on Sundays, holidays and nights. This supplement should have been in force for many months now, and those who work in emergency services in the Silesian Voivodeship have not received any zloty. Why? For many months now, the Minister has been responding with the Silesian Voivodeship and there is nothing to show for it. Unfortunately, these funds are still not paid to those who, out of respect for their hard work and dedication, should have received them long ago. That's why, Minister, he's calling for us to finally communicate with the voivode and pay that money to our doctors and paramedics. Thank you very much. Which part of Silesia are you from? Because I don't know. I'm from the Silesian Voivodeship, from Zagłębie, sir. Oh, it's overseas.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u198	I have a proposal that Members of the Deep Sea should not laugh. There you go, Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u199	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This appropriation is Poland won the world championship in the category of excess deaths. This is the success of your government. This is where you can show your power. It was your mistakes, your incompetence and your inability to manage health care that caused it. This is your fault, and unfortunately, you feel great about it. You're introducing an amendment today, which is actually even worse than what we have now. The talker said that you hated local governments, and that's why you're fighting them. I agree with that. It's obvious. You're much weaker in local governments than you are here. But there is one group that you hate even more. These are private entrepreneurs. Instead of this centralization, which you are now proposing, you should go exactly the other way - just like NZOZs became companies and function perfectly in many places, they could function in the same way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] hospitals. This is the direction you should take. In the meantime, you want to take everything into your pocket. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Money, yes, is public.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u200	Thank you very much. Down with the public... It's like you're... You have blood on your hands. Right. 100,000. You murdered people. But, Mr... Mr President, I have a kind request. I'm looking at the hand of the Member - I don't think there's any blood on his hands. Don't get too excited, please. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u201	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Didn't the pandemic really teach you anything? Is it really the extra excess deaths - over 70,000. - aren't there enough reason to take the health system seriously? We should be talking about fixing this system, we should be talking about bigger subsidies, but not in seven years' time, not more unfulfilled promises for resident doctors, just here and now. What does the government do? What are you doing? You're using this next opportunity to centralize hospitals, centralize the state in a completely senseless way. Really, stop this and let's start a serious conversation about the reset of this system that requires it. That's not what this bill is about. That's the first thing. And the second thing - a cordial request to all Members, a messenger from all clubs, to the whole House. Let's stop talking about health care, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us talk about the health system, because there are people, doctors and doctors, nurses and nurses with whom I also express my deep solidarity. Service can only be uniformed, and security is a system, these are people, not uniforms. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u202	Thank you very much. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Health of Minister Sławomir Gadomski and wish him to deal with all these questions and answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u203	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you for your wishes, I really think it is right, because the questions are from Sas to Las, and most, as Mr Latos concluded, are not at all on the subject. I was counting on the substantive discussion of this law, and I was counting on the fact that the Members who spoke on this subject, although they would read the justification: not the whole law, but, at least, the justification. 80% the questions did not concern this law. It was about everything else, and some of the things that were about it were the thesis that were completely nonsense, as Mr Piecha said. Well, nonsense, unspoken at no point in the bill. The first one, too, repeated several times... Minister, I have a very kind and kind request for you. You're a guest of the Seym. If you could not say to the Members that they are not reasonable, it would be very nice for us, the Members and Members. There you go. [[Applause]] Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Mr. Marshal, I'm proactively sorry, of course, and with a big... I don't. ...like I'm bowing to this request here, and of course, perhaps... And I'm not offended. ...colloquialism, but I just feel that some thesis were far from reality. These thesis, for example. It's: we're losing the role of consultants. We do not delete the role of voivodship consultants, because both national consultants and voivodship consultants are still to be an important link in the whole health sector, not only in the process of mapping health needs. On the other hand, the voivodship councils - and this was repeated by the participants themselves, in whom several dozen to a hundred people sat - are a non-decisive body, a body that does not bring value, are an inertial body. Today, voivodship consultants still have a role in this system, will continue to serve the voivodships with advice, will continue to submit their proposals to maps of health and voivodship needs or national transformation plans, they will continue to evaluate these plans. We do not intend to diminish this role, generally and before the pandemic, and during the pandemic from these consultative councils - both national and voivodeship - we use it. The second thesis, which is far from any reality, is that we eliminate local governments, we do not like local governments, we delete them from this law. I mean, probably not from this one, because in the light of this law, like the national or voivodship councils in the voivodship had previously representatives - one representative of the Marshal of the voivodship - so they still have them, we have not changed these records, as they had one representative of the convent of the powiats of the voivodship, they still have it, we have not changed that assumption. I do not see where we are detracting from the role of local governments that have been present in these councils, because they are still actually present in these councils and this voice is important. Moreover, in the case of most assumptions - let this be an example of today's meeting of the joint government and local government committee - we have the most important discussions in this environment: committees, the Polish Districts Association, the Polish Towns Association, the Marshals Convention, etc. Hospital reform was mentioned here from the speaker, and I am indeed pleased to supervise this work. Well, these assumptions and these works have so far been consulted with the community of powiats. Perhaps informally, because in fact the team of these representatives did not include, was an internal team of ministries and subordinates, benefited from some external support, but actually these proposals were and are being discussed in these forums. By the way, I reply to Mr Szczerbie - we are not going to take over county hospitals. That was never our intention - formally expressed. We have considered different options and I have also talked about this from this speaker. Three options we considered, one of them was taking over. Today I can say with full responsibility that the Minister of Health will not recommend this option. We expressed this with Minister Niedzielski today at the joint government and local government committee meeting. We will propose another option, linked to some systemic restructuring, with the appointment of the agency as the monitoring body of the restructuring plans, with the designation of the functions of restructuring advisers and restructuring agents who will actually take over these worst hospitals in the temporary management. Not county, not all of them. Those hospitals that come out of categorization as the worst. This recommendation will be presented by the Ministry of Health. Next week we will probably present a report, assumptions for consultation, and at the turn of the month (the bell) or in June we will present statutory assumptions. Mr. Marshal, may I please? Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna go over some specific questions. Mrs Płępek asked why the law is not detailed. The bill creates a framework. We leave the discretion of the councils here, we leave the freedom of the health minister to make these transition plans flexible. What is worth noticing? Several people, including Mrs Wcisło, asked why we are allocating PLN 60 million to the map of needs. Mrs Latos, these are the resources that we have also spent until today on mapping needs - the map of needs which, as President Latos pointed out, were already set out in the Act 7 years ago by previous governments. I think it's a good idea to map the needs. The only bad thing was that there were no recommendations, no guidelines, no follow-up. This is what Mrs Hennig-Kloska was talking about. There's no way to disagree with her. That's what's missing most. The maps were partially documents hidden in the drawer. On the basis of these recommendations, there were no further guidelines. Now this is going to change in this form - the emergence of transformation plans at the voivodship and national level. Mr Klimczak asked about the legal mechanisms for implementing the action. This is, first, the announcement of the Minister of Health, second, the announcement of the voivodship. These legal acts will be published and will thus form part of the legal system, but we can clearly relate them to other mechanisms, to the contracting system, IOWISZ, which was mentioned today. Mrs Gelert asked how the reform of the health needs map had not been implemented. It is precisely that the creation of these comprehensive, obsessive, analytical books did not go on, i.e. systemic recommendations, transformation, changes, a strategy to meet the needs that result. Finally, because there were many specific questions that were not related to the bill, I will say that I hope that we will look at this law for what it is intended to serve. It's supposed to be about ordering a state that's been operating for a few nice years. It is intended to ensure that the map of needs is operated so that we actually have system tools to implement and implement these maps at national and voivodship level a certain transformation or restructuring of the health care system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u204	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government's draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws (prints No 1129 and No 1173). I would very much like to ask Mr Matusiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, several legislative amendments were tabled to the draft Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws from print No 1129. All amendments have been accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u206	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Andrzej Gawron from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u207	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws, print No 1129, and report, print No 1173. At the end of 2020 there were more than 450,000 connected to the network in Poland. photovoltaic micro-installations. Maintaining the current pace of development of renewable energy projects, especially photovoltaic and wind projects, requires a clear, stable state policy framework for the development of renewable energy sources. The objective is to achieve a gross RES share of 21% to 23% by 2030 in the final energy consumption. Most of this energy consumption is set out in the National Energy and Climate Plan. This document also forecasts the necessary investment in electricity generation capacity in 2021-2030 at more than EUR 17 billion, of which nearly 75% will be the expenditure on wind and photovoltaic sources. This amendment is moving towards the necessary modification of the regulatory framework for further dynamic development of renewable energy sources. The main objective of the amendment is to reduce the concession obligations for small-scale entrepreneurs. This will be done by increasing the upper threshold of the total installed electricity or heat output combined for renewable energy installations. According to the amendment, a small installation will be an installation of a renewable energy source whose capacity is higher than 50 kW but not more than 1 MW. Some existing manufacturers exempt from the obligation to hold concessions would be automatically entered in the register of small installations' business activities. The amendment will, on the one hand, reduce the obligations for entities wishing to generate energy in small installations, on the other hand, result in the transfer of undertakings holding a concession from the office for which installations meet the conditions set for small installations to the register of energy producers in a small installation. The project therefore includes key elements related to the auction system in the legislation, namely the power of installed electricity. As regards land-use change, the project is very positive in changing the existing rules according to which PV farms could be built in the spatial planning plan to 100 KW, and now, thanks to the revision of this project, this limit will be shifted to 500 KW and in some cases even 1000 KW, if these are free-standing installations on specific land, which are also indicated by the law. At present, it is estimated that about 15% installations on the market are single phase installations. The legislator decided to clarify the provisions more clearly in order to treat three-phase and single-phase installations in a similar way. The aim of the proposed amendments to the Act is to revive the economy and respond to the social expectations of local government units and entrepreneurs who want to invest in this area. They are also an important solution, in particular for energy producers from the entire RES installation industry. At the same time, these solutions are becoming an effective part of the process of exiting the economic crisis related to the COVID-19 pandemic, in which the development of renewable energy is given a significant role. On the other hand, economic development and activation of local communities can contribute to economic growth and increase revenue to the budget of both local and state units. Based on the above facts and taking into account the concern for the dynamic development of renewable energy in Poland, which will improve the required energy balance and positively affect our environment, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the proposed amendment and will vote in favour of it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u208	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Papke, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u209	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the parliamentary club of the Civic Coalition on the government draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws, prints no. 1129 and 1173. This is an amendment to the Act of 20 February 2015 on Renewable Energy Sources, which aims to reduce the licensing obligations of economic operators operating in the field of so-called "business." a small installation. The problem was that there were no provisions in the Act on Practices relating to how to determine the total capacity of the installed RES electrical installation. Given the change in the qualification of the concession obligation to registered RES power generators for several thousand installations, this issue becomes extremely important and necessary for regulatory regulation. The Act therefore sets out the parameters of the auction system of the electrical capacity of the installation in question, while remaining in line with the practice used so far. The aim of the changes is, among others, to make changes.: limiting the obligations of entities wishing to generate energy in small installations, transferring undertakings with concessions and having installations known as small to the register of energy producers in small installations. The proposed amendments will introduce a simplified formula for increasing the number of entities with an entry in the register of energy generators in a small installation. Operating at the end of 2020 more than 450,000 the micro-installation requires changes to the law that will enable them to develop. Observed the development of this topic within the framework of the so-called. the discharge system clearly indicates that the changes are required to ensure a uniform treatment of the settlement of renewable energy prosumers. The amendments to the Act also refer to the promotion of renewable energy sources in the formula of energy cooperatives, which are in vain sought in Poland and whose rules of operation in this formula will be comparable to prosumer production of renewable energy. It is necessary to establish a state policy framework for the development of renewable energy sources, as by 2030 the share of renewable energy in gross energy consumption is expected to reach between 21 and 23%. , which was included in the National Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030. The Act regulates issues relating to the definition of a long-term timetable for the provision of support to RES generators as a reference point for 6 consecutive years. It refers to the quantity and value of electricity from renewable energy sources sold by auction in the years 2022 to 2027. This value cannot be reduced. This gives an opportunity to define the level of development of the RES sector and to define the investment perspective. Other amendments to the Act respond to factors related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, including:: Clarification that the undertaking participating in the auction is not in economic difficulty or the definition of safeguards when the deadline for the first generation of electricity or first sale is exceeded. Photovoltaic installations may replace old central heating and water systems. The use of this type of equipment is an alternative to the development of industrial, post-police and poor quality agricultural land, as well as roofs of all construction sites. The Civic Coalition has always supported all actions leading to green energy production, and what this entails - environmental care and natural resources. After yesterday's multi-hour discussion in the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, during which there was a slight chaos on the side of the government and at the last moment amendments to the project were proposed, I state that the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club supports this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u210	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I would like to say that RES are a very important source of energy for us too. You can say that RES is a Polish state right. RES, RES and RES again. Today, more and more analyses of the most important experts say that RES declassify all other energy sources, including atom, coal and others. RES are our future and we should bet on RES. That is why the good changes proposed in this law, which allow renewable energy to grow even more, which remove barriers particularly in the area of energy relating to photovoltaics, solar energy, are supported by us. On the other hand, I would like to return to some of the points that I mentioned at the committee meeting. It is not true, as the rapporteur said, that all the amendments have been accepted. Well, not all of them, sir. The amendment concerning energy cooperatives was not accepted. I would like to say that of course some changes in energy in Poland are being implemented, but this is not done in a comprehensive way. As regards the situation of wind energy on land, which, according to the Ministry of Climate Affairs, is expected to represent 11% all energy production from RES, this law applies to us, which completely limits the development of wind farms on land. Yesterday I submitted a proposal to change this law. We were looking forward to this amendment, although I think it is really easy and possible and necessary for implementation, so we directed this project as a Left. It removes the barrier to maintaining the distance of wind farms, reducing the distance from 10 hectares, i.e. 10 times the height of the windmill, to 500 m. We also introduced a public consultation obligation and met the demands of entrepreneurs and environmentalists. This is one of the fundamental issues that we should take into account when we are talking about the comprehensive development of renewable energy. If we are talking in government documents about the fact that something is going to develop, then we need to have the right to do so at this point, because otherwise we're just talking about something else and doing something else. I would also like to make an amendment to which I made a change after yesterday's committee meeting, because I do not think it is true that the law on energy cooperatives cannot be changed today. Energy cooperatives were introduced a few years ago and do not operate in Poland, the law is dead, and people want to produce renewable energy and want to do so as collective prosumers. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Today, in principle, this is only possible in the form of one person prosumerism, where there is a prosumer that generates energy for its own needs, Mr President, and uses it for its own purposes. For this reason, for the second time, I am making an amendment, slightly modified, saying that an energy cooperative can be set up, wherever it wants, in a rural or urban commune or urban community. We can't territorially limit someone's business or energy generation just because someone lives in a city or in a country. We should do it right away. We also loosen energy production restrictions. Today, an energy cooperative can be established if it allocates as much as 70% to its own needs. energy. The amendment made by me aims to make sure that half of this energy is consumed by the cooperative concerned and that half of it can be put online or sold. As a result, we all need to be able to live in the environment that allows us to live in and use the energy that surrounds us. 8,000 are falling down on the ground every now and then. times more energy than we can use. Let us make use of this potential and create the law that makes it possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u212	Thank you very much for your comments and for the amendments tabled. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Coalition Poland Parliamentary Club, I would like to say that it is a good thing that we have this bill. On the other hand, it also shows how hard information, knowledge and legislation on renewable energy have been pierced over the years. It is good that there is progress and there is awareness today that you can produce energy in a very simple, accessible way and that any citizen can do so, so we can have an impact on what our climate will look like and we can have available energy, which is becoming more and more difficult and will probably become more difficult. We experienced this a few days ago and this is a separate topic that requires discussion, debate about our networks, our energy system. Renewable energy has a developmental trend today, but it must be acknowledged that it still feels like pushing it somewhere on the side track. We remember this blockade in 2015 when it comes to windmills. That still hasn't broken through. We found an explanation that we would build windmills at sea, but these investments and then electricity from these windmills are twice as expensive. And we're not doing anything to get back into the windmill system. I hear it caused social conflicts. Here's what I'm gonna say. These social conflicts were sporadic, but they were winded up by one of the ministers who drove around Poland and deliberately turned on these conflicts, because then it was on hand, because the election had to be won. It was the wrong solution, and it still works today. You're afraid to walk away from 10 hours and all the consequences of that. It's a good thing we have a prosumer system. He needs to be perfected and supported, because this is a very good system. This is a system that allows you to defocus electricity production. We had a problem with Belchatov for a few days, in one place, and in half of Europe or even in Africa it is felt. We can produce it on our own roofs, in our gardens, even on the balconies - and then we have this system dispersed. It's a good solution because it doesn't cause major energy collisions. That's what we need to support. Therefore, we propose to modify the prosumer system. We want to increase this from 50 kW to 150 kW of installed power. There's nothing to be afraid of, there's not gonna be a boom like that, they're not all gonna throw up, they're not gonna build. Allowing people who want to join the prosumer system to invest their money, produce energy for themselves and even for their neighbors, let it online. It's not enough to pay people. What was in the first version. In 2015, we adopted such a law in the Sejm that the prosumer will be paid for the energy produced. Why be afraid of it? You make it for yourself, but you can sell it, because it's gonna stay with us in the country. We'll give it to our neighbors. You're gonna benefit from this. It'll be cheaper. It'll be cheaper. You're gonna benefit from this. There's nothing to be afraid of. Let people make money, too. Create an opportunity for them. Because we are creating a new system, we say: citizens' initiatives. Let people make money out of energy production. Pay them at the price you sell your energy for. Simple, transparent, you don't have to add to that. Not much, today over 10 kW the state takes 30% energy. Then he gives us back, but 30%. He's taking it. It's a lot, 1/3. We propose in the amendments to reduce what we give you to 10% So 0.1, not 30%, just 0.1, 1 to 9. I think that's a good solution. Because the first temptations, as you have prepared (the bell) of the bill, was 30%, then reduced to the lower extent. Give citizens the opportunity to make money. Citizens want to produce electricity. They're not gonna be factories, they're not gonna be big ventures. I think it would contribute to what we're all talking about and what we're all looking for - cheap electricity, clean air and people could make money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u214	Thank you very much. Thanks for the adjustments. We're on it. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, a parliamentary circle of the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We heard about a bill that even the total opposition supported. Here PSL spoke well of it, making very sensible amendments. Mr President, we are always on the green side of power. Thank you. Even we see some positive points in it. Because we're real opposition, not total opposition. But let's look at the matter in general. Let us imagine that all energy is green, e.g. We have all the energy from the windmills. Do you understand what this means? The wind stops and there's no electricity in any house. Oh, Jesus, that's bullshit. Let's imagine that we're taking all the energy from the photovoltaic panels. There's a cloud coming in and there's no electricity in any house. Have you ever heard of energy stores? And if 10% We're making it out of this, we've got 10%. problem, but that's 10% It's a problem, not a profit. Let's look at the real thing. You don't understand. If the wind is weakening, you can't turn large power blocks or water blocks on within a fraction of a second or even a few minutes. It's an energy warehouse. So that these types of energyists are swearing at these RES as they can, and let's realize that. Ladies and gentlemen, as a fellow member of the PSL has rightly said, you need to make local networks, not to put it on the state network, just to have local networks. And there's no reason to limit it to 50, 150 or so. Let everyone produce this electricity as they please. Let him create networks in the commune or county or whatever. You shouldn't care at all. Not at all. And if people want to sell back to you, of course, let them sell back, there's no problem. Just, I repeat, I don't see any reason for you to regulate this. And if the state power plants work, maybe Winnicki's friend will say something about how it works in practice. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] Thank you. Almost, and the bill would threaten the wind and the cloud as I listened to you at first. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u216	Oh, yeah, yeah. Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, Circle of the Polish Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u217	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking of RES, speaking of energy, I have a question. Perhaps someone from the Ministry will be able to answer them. What really happened two days ago in Belchatov? What really happened is that at the largest power plant in Europe, because this is the largest power plant of this type in Europe, 20% Powers in the country, suddenly 10 out of 11 blocks were turned off? The effects of this on the system with which we are connected, the energy system, were felt even in Algeria and Morocco. What happened? Does this have anything to do with the fact, as the media reported a few weeks ago, that there was a political cleansing in Bełchatów, because one faction, seems to be the Prime Minister of Morawiecki, cut out some of Minister Macierewicz's people, so there are fewer people left who can manage energy? What happened that you did not respond to this argument, which we have been raising for many years, to a problem that we have been signalling for many, many years? The problem, apart from the generation of energy production, is that the nuclear power plant project is completely collapsed, that we are subject to the European Union's climate policy dictatorship, which is completely inadequate to our pace of transformation, which is really destroying the possibility of a meaningful transformation, destroying the domestic energy industry, domestic energy supplies... What have you done over the last few years to reform electricity to upgrade the grids? We're about to have some really powerful blackouts resulting from this. This crash didn't start in Belchatów. It started at the station. What happened out there? It's been a few days. We still don't have any information on that. The question arises as to whether there is someone there who is able to answer these questions honestly. Did the party key again decide that even at the largest power plant in Europe you don't have the right specialists? What's going on out there, Minister? What's going on out there, Prime Minister? That's our question today. This is an appeal for you to finally start taking energy seriously, because the provoking of another decade, as the predecessors did, and subjecting the European Union to a dictatorship in this area will lead to crazy increases in electricity prices, will lead to [[♪ The bell ♪]] to energy poverty, will lead to crazy imports of electricity into Poland and collapse of the national energy system. You can't let that happen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u218	Thank you very much. Before the Minister answers the question of what is happening in Bełchatów, we will ask Mrs Joanna Mucha from the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u219	Thank you very kindly, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have the pleasure to present the position of our circle towards the government's draft law on amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. My previous speaker from PSL mentioned whether he spoke very much about prosumers, about those who produce, consume electricity. Very good that there are, of course, those who produce it in RES. In general, RES are scattered, which means they are more secure sources of energy, those that are close to us. You know, they're all really good. But me thinking about RES, I'm thinking about some old lady who lives in a small town and who's gonna take out the last pennies from her wallet to buy coal, and coal of very poor quality. I'm thinking about some other old man who lives in a funky apartment in another town because he just can't afford to warm up his apartment. He's sick, his lungs are sick because of the conditions he lives in. I'm thinking about a big family that just can't afford to warm up their apartments. Kids get sick all the time. Besides not being able to heat themselves, the neighbors next door are still burning garbage in the oven. And these are the people I think most of when I think about renewable energy sources. Unfortunately, I must say that the Polish state today operates in this way. It manages its resources in such a way that they will end up among those who will benefit from a possible change to renewable energy sources. Today we are actually dealing with a situation where this great success, this huge boom connected with photovoltaics, mostly photovoltaics, has led us to see an increase in renewable sources, i.e. the amount of energy produced from renewable energy sources, but this is, please, the entrepreneurship of Poles, individual Poles, in addition to those who can afford it. And this poor lady, this poor man or this poor multi-children's family, will be the last in line to benefit from this revolution. It seems that in fact the Polish government is slowly awakening from coal sleep and is beginning to see that the world has moved forward and is beginning to see this green transformation. Even China can see her. Even the Polish government has seen her since China has seen her. And indeed, those records that are included in this bill are good records. The limitation of concession obligations, the issue of converting concessions to registration, all the things that my previous speakers have said, are things that are important and necessary. We're the only ones who've been talking about this as an opposition for six years. For six years we've been in contact with a government that, like Don Quixote, struggled bravely with windmills. We were in contact with changing the definition of energy wood, as well as allowing it to smoke in power plants, which this government, is already the largest curiazum, counts according to statistics as renewable energy. We've been dealing with the acquisition, the massive acquisition of coal from across the eastern border. The government has made a sacrificial contribution to energy, to coal billions each year. If you count it in total, it would probably be tens of billions of zlotys. And suddenly a huge acceleration from the RES. We have the impression that they may have something to do with this, too, with other laws that are being dealt with at the moment in the Seym. Let's face it, it's not like the government suddenly realized what's going on, it's just that this government has completely lost control of the energy sector. The fact that he's lost is a very good thing... We are dealing with a situation in which, on 14 May, the prices of CO allowances I'd like to ask the members of the government, [[♪ The bell ♪]] from where in Polish Lada this screaming absence of climate topics. We know, of course, that you have climate deniers in the coalition, but nevertheless in the Polish Lada there should have been some reference. Once again, I will repeat what I started with: the most important are those people who are extremely poor in energy. And unfortunately, I still don't see the path to these people, to energy security. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u220	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the questions. I'm setting 1 minute as the time to ask a question. We begin with Mr Mark Polak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, who will fly to us electronically. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u221	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you to confirm if I'm audible. You're audible, you're visible, you're impressive. There you go. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Using today's debate on renewable energy sources, I wanted to reiterate the many times raised problem of the need to develop solutions to facilitate the increase in the share of small water power plants in electricity production in Poland. The circulation of Polish rivers, river basins, as well as small, raging mountain streams is a potential untapped. A significant part of this mechanical energy should be converted into electricity. But today, for the development of water microelectric plants, the insurmountable barrier is the existing building regulations, environmental requirements and administrative procedures. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the Ministry is working on this and whether it sees (The Bell) the need to improve regulation and procedures to facilitate the development and functioning of small water energy in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u223	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! The first thing is the power charge for prosumers, which is not touched by this law. I have submitted an interpellation to you on this matter, and I believe that this is a denial of the idea of building home-based photovoltaic installations. On the one hand, there is my current, the thermomodernization relief, and on the other hand - you pull out several zlotys a month from each household. I believe that this is a total aberration of logic, principles that are supposed to encourage Poles to set up such installations. Ladies and gentlemen! The second thing is an opportunity. No doubt the discussion of this law is an opportunity to congratulate Mark Suski on the opening in Radom of Enea Nowa Energia. Yes, I would like to inform you that there is such a company, it is Enei SA's daughter company. It was founded and was redirected to it by a report of photovoltaic installations, wind farms (The Bell), farms or water power plants, but that's not all. Maybe we need to commend here: yes, we could use a company that specializes in RES and will be able to spin and implement RES. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lack of logic in renting a private building by the president of this company and investing - it is estimated that it is about PLN 2 million, maybe PLN 2.5 million - in this private building, the purchase of several limos. It's all Enea's money, de facto money from the electricity bill. You promised to pay for the electricity bill. Where are the surcharges? There isn't. But you're investing a few million zlotys in a private building of a gentleman whose name I happen to know, but I'm not going to replace him because this isn't the place. What's the guarantee that when this deal is over, that the assets you invested there will be recovered? This is total bullshit. I will ask President Nowak to initiate a committee meeting on this matter. I believe that it is impossible to lead law and justice officers - and yes, including law and justice officers - to become directors. The director is, for example, the head of the Councillors' Law and Justice Club in Radom. We're done... This is total bullshit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u224	Thank you very much. I think it's a shame you didn't name the owner of this building... That was close. I wanted to, but... ...because usually by building owners we learn the truth in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Is Mr. Grzegorz Rusiecki here? There isn't. Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u225	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Just a few days ago, there was a breakdown at the Belchat Power Plant. What happened? Experts warn that there may have been a blackout and a temporary blackout of many cities in Poland. The Prime Minister will probably say not great, not terrible, but this shows that coal-based energy is outdated and unstable. The diversification of energy sources and investments in RES are an opportunity for Poland to transform energy. According to reports, renewable energy sources have overtaken fossil fuels for the first time in the European Union. The Union pursues further ambitious objectives: 20% RES in 2020 and up to 40% by 2030 Unfortunately, Poland is in the gray end when it comes to these changes. According to data, electricity and air in our country are currently the most polluted in Europe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Last sentence. In 2016, the government basically prohibited the construction of electric power plants. Windy. Wind power plants - thank you. Now all of a sudden, he wakes up with his hand in a potty and thinks he's gonna turn this wrong law around. Why did we waste so much time? Who's gonna answer for this stupid decision? How long will you play with the lives and health of thousands of people who will have to live with the effects of the climate crisis? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u226	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a good thing we're talking about photovoltaics, photovoltaics are a dream of many Poles, but if we look at it, what will be 10, 20 years? It's worth thinking about solutions. The viability of most photovoltaic panels is around 25.30 years. The inverters, on the other hand, are about 10 years old. Panel productivity is falling by 6%. after 25 years of use. But it depends on technology. First-generation panels from the '90s. The 20th century will soon be excluded from use and replaced by newer generation installations, creating a challenge for the environment and waste reduction bodies. We are currently observing the growth of programmes supporting the development of photovoltaic installations - very well. But we should now develop a legal and institutional framework that will be ready for the greatest increase in solar installations that is appropriate to our country's needs. This could be one of the goals (the bell), the very important goals of the Ministry of Climate. Does the Ministry have a register of all installed photovoltaic installations? Is it planned to implement the rules governing the collection of used photovoltaic equipment? And so far, what has this issue been about after-voltaic waste? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u228	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the justification of the draft Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act, the proposed amendments are intended to reduce the concession obligations for small-scale operators by increasing the threshold of the total installed electrical capacity or heat output combined for renewable energy installations defined as small installations. But I would like to know how these new RES installations are going to be ordered by the government on the basis of an auction support system in 2021? In what technologies and about what total installed capacity? Because when I hear about RES, when I think about RES, I see smog. I see smelly air coming out of the chimneys and red, black, orange zones during the heating period. You have slept through six years of major problems of Poles and Poles. How many photovoltaic installations are there in Poland? How many have been installed in the last six years? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And tell me about the waste problem. How this problem will be solved and how, because we have many waste environmental bombs, and one near Łódź in Zgierz, which you also cannot deal with. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mrs Margaret Tracz, Greens. You're welcome. Is there a Green Club?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is good news for the development of energy from renewable sources. I am pleased that the Government of the United Right finally decided to correct the mistakes and sins that it committed at the beginning of the first term, when it practically stopped the development of RES and led to a decrease in the share of renewable energy in the energy mix. Everything can't be fixed anymore. It can't be fixed, for example. that we will not achieve this by 2020. - although the indicators will only be in some time - a 15% share of RES in the energy mix. But this project gives us some hope for a change. But it will not be achieved without more ambitious goals. It will not be done without the change of draconian law, which prevented the development of wind energy on land. Hence my question to the applicants. When will the Government of the United Right withdraw from the 10 H rule introduced in 2016, which hindered the development of wind investment on land? When will you really unleash the full potential of the Polish RES industry?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u233	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thanks to the changes proposed by the government in the Renewable Energy Act, the National Agricultural Support Centre is to be granted the right to lease land of the State Treasury without a tender, which, in view of the political procedure for the appointment of directors of the centres, will foster suspicions of corruption and guys in these leases. We therefore have the question: How does the government intend to ensure that the principles of fair competition and equal rights of entrepreneurs seeking to lease state land for energy purposes are implemented? And the other. In view of the fact that the changes proposed by the government in the law are inter alia interfering. in the rights of municipalities to spatial planning, I have a question: With which municipalities or associations of municipalities the government consulted the draft law? I ask you to present the conclusions of this consultation. I kindly ask the Minister to answer my questions in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, a parliamentary circle of the Confederation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u235	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! In the context of recent problems in Bełchatów, I would like to know what the modernization of the new station in Choczew looks like, what is the construction of the line at which it is at the stage: Gdansk Friendship - Jewish Kierzkowo, Grudziądz Hungarianowo - Pelplin - Gdansk Friendship, Choczewo - Żarnowiec, Choczewo - Gdansk Friendship and Choczewo - Gdansk Błonia - Grudziądz Hungariano. I'm asking because we know there's already a big problem with transmission lines, transmission networks. And let us remember that regardless of how we produce electricity, how energy will be produced, whether it will be RES, whether it will be nuclear energy, or coal, which is so rugy here, we must do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's sent somehow. I'd like an answer. If you can't answer the speaker now, it's in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u236	Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With interest I looked into the most strategic programme of Polish Law and Justice Loads, there I look for records about energy, about civic energy, distributed energy and somehow I can't find it there. In such a key document, there are no assumptions that would show the road map of the arrival of climate neutrality in 2050. How is the government going to do this in the next five years? What is the plan, the cycle of laws that will safeguard our renewable energy sources? Tell me about 10H, tell me about prosumer energy, virtual prosumer, collective prosumer. For all this time we have something here, and these cooperatives, these clusters, all of this does not work, and we need at this moment a courageous law that will tell us (the bell) about the virtual recipient and about the collective prosumer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have all been waiting for years for your bolder decisions, for the laws that will bring us more widely into renewable energy, to RES, to various prosumer solutions. But the state has lost money and time over the years. Today, you also propose an amendment to the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury and once again you only wish to favour the companies of the State Treasury to this extent: these companies of the State Treasury will be able to receive without tender real estate which are in the holding of the State Treasury. This can't be right. Either you treat all actors, all Poles alike, or you serve solutions only to your own, perhaps to your guys in positions, not transparently to all Poles, also to all private companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us finally release the money of Poles and release the energy of Poles. They have their resources and they want to invest, and you don't let them, you just say: out of the state budget, and out of the pockets of Poles you draw this money. Why don't you, Minister, allow private companies to invest in the same form, lease this land without a tender? And is what you're doing in line with European Union law? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u240	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u241	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! You say that RES needs to grow, you even set goals for yourself, although it's not very ambitious for me. You say RES is a priority for the government. At the same time, the current law on wind farms on land destroys this industry. Explain to me this absurdity, this absurd situation. You know very well, Minister, that the development of renewables is based on diversity and mutual complementarity. I would therefore like to hear a concrete answer to the question: What are the next legislative steps to change this situation? Thank you. I'll have the information in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u242	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! A very high interest in prosumers is enjoyed by the program "My current" which is the funding of the construction of home photovoltaics in the amount of up to 5 thousand. In total, over 260 000 of these proposals were received in the second stage. 200,000. has a chance to finance from the first stage of the programme - PLN 1110 million. I would like to ask, from which sources will be financed my current 3.0. That's one thing. Secondly, what new elements will be taken into account when funding from this programme? And the second part of the question is about helping the families affected by energy poverty. At the moment about 1.5 million farms [[♪ The bell ♪]] domestic is suffering from energy poverty. What are you doing to reduce this energy poverty? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm sure we have some kind of renewable energy boom. Here the lady from the Left said: RES, RES, RES and only RES, but there are also downsides of this energy, i.e. Very high instability. When it comes to this boom, I have two questions. Is the electricity grid, the entire infrastructure prepared for this boom, for the fact that RES is developing? Are plans for building energy storage or power storage sites considered? This could also help to achieve rational development of renewable energy in such a local balancing area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u246	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Papke, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u247	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, we always support actions leading to green energy, i.e. photovoltaics, wind farms, biomass or geothermal energy. This, of course, always brings together care for the environment and natural resources. On the above topic, I have two questions. I beg you, Minister, there will probably be no time here for a written reply. Exactly how does the government plan to achieve EU RES targets in final energy consumption in Poland? Second question, even wider, I will also ask for an answer in writing, Minister. What laws is the government still planning on fulfilling these right-wing criteria when it comes to RES? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u248	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr Gawron says that there is a boom, and I am afraid that there may be a big boom, but a bit in a different context. My question concerns the situation in the whole energy sector. Well, to be clear, energy is based on the four main pillars, i.e. the manufacturers, and therefore photovoltaics, and the wind, and coal and gas, so all who produce energy, which extract the material from which the energy is produced. The second pillar is the generators, so power plants. Then we have transmission networks, and at the end we have a distribution network that reaches our apartments. Today, the Ministry is talking about miners, and rightly so, because we need protection for this social group. But my question is, in the context of restructuring, as you can see from the example of this law, the whole energy sector: Do you talk to energyists? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you consult with the social side what will happen after thousands of redundancies from coal power stations? What will happen when it comes to people who are going to lose their jobs because of the electronics that appear throughout the energy system? These are very serious problems, and therefore my question concerns a comprehensive discussion on the energy sector in the context of the human factor and the professionals who should work in this energy sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u250	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Sowińska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Last year there was a large increase in energy production from photovoltaics. It was over 1,200 gigawato hours. This, of course, is happy, but we could produce much more of this energy and we could produce more of it. Here the brakes are, unfortunately, the regulations, because power generators can only deduct as much energy as they pay their bills. For example, housing cooperatives, which consume very little electricity, either for lighting common parts or for elevators. If they could sell that energy, for example. residents of cooperatives could install much more of these photovoltaic panels. The same is true of farmers. Some of them have areas to install photovoltaic panels. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question: When do you unblock the legal possibility for the consumer to be an economic operator to sell energy to the grid? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u252	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of RES is very important for the development of Polish energy, but today, many times in this room, the Bełchatów power plant has already fallen. I have an appeal to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for information about what happened at the power plant. If he does not find time or wants to avoid this topic, please call the Special Service Commission to clarify what happened there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u255	Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives and even there... Polish People's Party and there... The European Coalition is still there. It's still European. We accept everything. You're welcome, sir. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Surely the situation is not zero-one, that today we can move to RES. It's obvious. There's got to be some sense here. It's got to be synchronized. But there must be a will, there must be a desire and a bold exit, as it has already fallen here, forward, because people want to produce electricity, they want to pass it to their nearest neighbours, he stays in the area, but they need to create conditions, they need to look for opportunities, and these possibilities are. Thousands, tens of thousands of jobs have been created in terms of RES investments, all these installers. People from abroad need to be brought from the east, I see that Ukrainians have to do it because they lack people. This is the answer to the question, what about the steel workers, the miners, is the possibility development of them. I would ask for an answer, even in writing, what are the prices of black energy and renewable energy today, so that I can compare it with my knowledge. Another question (The Bell) how much do you want to invest in the National Reconstruction Plan in transmission networks, low voltage ones and higher voltage ones? That is a problem today and that will be a problem in the near future. If we're talking about windmills at sea, this current needs to be sent south by something. These are huge distances, very high powers. Did you see this in the National Reconstruction Plan? Because today it's all lying down, these are 40-year-old and older networks. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u256	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u257	Simon the Holovni. Simon the Holovni. Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The weekend showed that Jarosław Kaczyński lacks responsibility, competence and vision to face the most important challenge facing Poland today. This challenge is the energy transformation. You will lead to the fact that Polish households will pay more and more for electricity, it will be more and more expensive. We have the highest wholesale prices in Europe, and for now we only reduce them artificially by reducing excise duty, but every year it costs us huge money. On the other hand, we have and we will have an increasingly less competitive economy that will simply cause this. In addition, Monday's accident in Bełchatów exposed the state of Polish energy. We lost 20% in a few seconds. the electricity needed and had it not been imported (the bell) of energy from abroad, about 10 million households would simply have no electricity. Where is your need to restore our country's energy sovereignty? Let us fight for it, otherwise, as I said, the Polish economy will become less competitive, Poles will pay higher and higher electricity bills and the cost of life will rise dramatically in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u258	Thank you very much. I'll have the Secretary of State at the Climate Ministry of Minister Ireneusz Gaina. I'll make a profit. Minister Ireneus, please. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: Profit. My name changes. Profit? I'm sorry, I didn't know he was changing, but I'm gonna change. State Secretary at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Odna: In Polish the names are generally changed. That was very brilliant, Minister. I hope you'll be as brilliant as you are, you'll be our wizard from RES land, and you'll answer the 16 times asked question: What happened in Bełchatów? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Thank you very much for your good work in the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and other laws. This is a very good bill, and I thank all the parliamentary clubs for their positive opinion on this bill. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, what I was talking about at the committee meeting, during the discussion and first reading of the bill, I want to say that it is completely false that the Government of Law and Justice, the Government of the United Right, has blocked the development of RES. It's the opposite. Over the last 5 years, and especially in the last 3 years we have seen the spectacular development of renewable energy sources in Poland. It is most visible in the photovoltaics segment, but not only. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, based on the facts, that firstly, we have close to 6.5 GW of wind power installed on land, and the contracted capacity of the last RES auctions for the last 3 years is 4.3 GW, which will be realized in the next 2 and 2.5 years. In photovoltaics, the installed power is 4.5 GW. Over the coming years, we expect what is contracted under the RES auction, that is 3.2 GW, and we know that prosumer installations on the roofs of Polish houses grow very dynamically. This is of course due to the legislative solutions introduced by the Government of the United Right, the so-called. Leaks for prosumers and later, in the years to come - the flagship program, the flagship program, my current, which will continue this year. Here, too, was the question about this program. We're getting ready, we're going to get ready in the middle of the year, i.e. From July 1st, run this program, he will continue. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also the development of other elements of this sector, such as biomass, biogas plants. We are preparing a large programme for the development of the biomethane plant, working with large operators, large companies such as PGNiG or Orlen, which will also carry out major economic projects in terms of their demand to increase the share of biofuels or to inject methane into gas networks, and increasing the share of green gas in gas networks. But let's focus, ladies and gentlemen, above all, on the bill that the High House is investigating. In short, I can only say that this is, first, the limitation of the concession obligations, the extension of the support of manufacturers, the extension of the auction system until 2027, plus the extension of the support for small hydropower plants until 2024. Last year, the 15-year support period for these installations ended in October and we are currently looking for new solutions. We are in constant consultation and prenotification with the European Commission. The President of the Energy Regulatory Office in agreement with the Minister of Climate and Environment announced the RES auction for this year between 26 May and 11 June, so in a few days more auctions will begin. In answer to one of the questions, we expect to contract 1800 MW in photovoltaics, 600 MW in wind installations and 200 MW in other technologies such as biogas and small water energy. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention to the question that, given the limited amount of time we will answer these questions in writing, but the most important point is to increase the integration of renewable energy sources into the national electricity system. A special team has been set up to work on this difficult issue, but here I would like to thank, above all, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Yesterday, Mr Wojciech Zubowski tabled a very important amendment to the draft law on the definition of hybrid installation of renewable energy sources. This is a solution, one can say, even groundbreaking for energy at all because thanks to the entry into force of such a work of combined renewable energy sources combined with a storage of energy, plus inverter, plus transformer station with one input into the electricity system we will lead, please countries, to greater flexibility and stability of renewable energy sources up to 60% work during the year, which is similar to the working time of coal blocks today operating in the electricity system. This is, in my opinion, a breakthrough solution, which is also very positively assessed by... Thank you, Minister, we're out of time. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: We're almost done, Marshal. Will you answer us in the Belchatov case? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: The solution was very positively assessed by Polish electricity networks, by operators of the distribution system... Minister, can you hear me? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: What the... I think I'll make amends if you'll allow me. We're interested in the Belchats. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: To answer the question in the Belchatów case: this is not exactly a question to the Minister of Climate and Environment, because the supervision of companies of the State Treasury, including energy infrastructure, is exercised by another ministry. From my information - this is already the official message of Polish Power Networks - it appears that there has been a failure in Rogowiec station. Well, that's good. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: Automation shut down the blocks in Bełchatów so that there would be no major technical failure. It is likely that there has also been a human error when it comes to this malfunction. Polish Energy Networks have set up a special committee, researched the causes of this accident and I think that the public, including of course the parliamentarians, will be informed about the results of this check of the causes of the accident. Thank you. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: In the meantime, pumping power stations, Żarnowiec... and energy... have been shut down. Minister, thank you very much. I gave you 2.5 minutes more. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: Of course. Once again, thank you very much to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for working on this law. I would like to thank you all for even these critical voices, which result from the concern for the Polish system... Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u260	Once again, right? Gentlemen, you've got three minutes more, haven't you? And so it's lucky that someone else wasn't in charge because he wouldn't have gotten a second. He's hit and it's nice. You found out what caused the crash in Bełchatów. The cause of the crash in Belchatów was the failure. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Property Transformations in the Sugar Industry (Prints No 1162 and 1183). I would very kindly ask Mr John Duda to submit a report to the committee. I would like to invite you very much, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the first reading of the draft law amending the law on ownership transformations in the sugar industry contained in print No 1162. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The proposed regulation provides for amendments to the Article. 11b. 4 of the Act of 26 August 1994 on proprietary transformations in the sugar industry and aims to regulate the situation of the State Treasury in the National Sugar Company. In short, it is the so-called. the right to vote and to start the process of integrating the agri-food market on the basis of the passed law. Very short, because only a two-Article law long awaited by the agricultural environment and agri-processing industries will give legal grounds for launching the process of consolidation of companies from these sectors. The joint committees, after a long and very substantive discussion, have a positive opinion on the draft submitted by the government, do not submit any amendments and ask for the adoption by the High Sejm of the draft print law No 1162. The report on the joint meeting of committees is contained in print No 1183. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u262	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Robert Telus from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u263	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club in relation to the government's draft Print Act No 1162. I think it will not surprise anyone, as I say, that the Law and Justice Club supports this very short, because it consists of only two articles, but a very important law, which gives the possibility to unify the conceptual grid in terms of including the shares of the new issues of the National Sugar Company, hereinafter referred to as the KSC, and to regulate the legal situation of the State Treasury in this respect. It's a record, maybe a theoretical one. I have read to you what this law brings, but first of all it is a big step, Mr. Marshal and High Izbo, to make a food company, a food holding, so much awaited by farmers. Whatever we call it, the company will be an important player, an important element throughout the food chain; above all, we are talking about food products. History in Poland turned out that in the moment of transformation in the entire food chain processing and mediation were taken over by foreign companies. I'll speak politically, but I think it's understandable, Mr. Marshal. No one made sure of that. The parties that created governments - the longest in the government since the transformation was the Polish People's Party - did not ensure that processing and mediation were in Polish hands. This led to the fact that at this point the farmer is probably the only producer in Poland that has no impact on the price of its own products. It shall be decided by the recipient, the intermediary shall decide which person receives it from the farmer. And things happen. Here's an example... That's what I always say, but I think he's a symbol. There was a period in Poland that the potato in Sieradzk at the farmer cost 10 gr, and the same potato in the supermarket, not far, because even in the same village, it cost 2,20 PLN. Look who made the money. A farmer or a middleman? And there was no way to influence this price on this situation. Only now have steps been taken to create such a holding company, a player in the food market, our Polish player. This is the most important: our Polish player. I would very much like to stress the role of the Ministry of State Assets, which is currently working on it, and Minister Ślivka, in that these works have really moved forward. This bill is one of the very important elements in the whole creation of this food holding company, the player who will be able to influence the price. It's not like he's gonna regulate the price, he's gonna decide about it, but he's gonna be able to influence it. He will be able to influence the protection of the Polish farmer from looters, those who often deceive the Polish farmer, those who earn from it, who somehow create an unhealthy situation that the Polish farmer does not influence the price of his product. Therefore, as I said at the outset, the Law and Justice Club fully supports this short but very important law, including the possibility of creating this food holding company. I would like to stress very strongly here that farmers are waiting for this law, farmers have great hopes in this law. But not only farmers, because we have signals that also social side, trade unions [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this sugar company, which will lead the lead in this holding company, they also support this law and wait for this holding to be created as soon as possible. Therefore, Minister, the Law and Justice Club supports this holding company as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u264	Thank you very much. There is a presumption that, as you support this project, this holding will actually arise. Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law on ownership transformations in the sugar industry is another legal document in the process of creating a Polish food group. Previously it was to be a national food holding company, then - a Polish food holding company. Let me remind you that this trial has been going on for almost six years. Between 2015 and 2019 the issue of the said food holding was to be settled by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. We are critical of this time because of the lack of clear solutions in terms of, firstly, the structure of the holding company, secondly, the errors in the financial engineering of this undertaking and, in our opinion, the incorrect selection of operators to create a food holding. To illustrate the activities of the future holding company, it is necessary to recall how the purchase of apples by Eskimos was organised in 2018. The loss of the Treasury is over PLN 100 million. It is still a matter of clarification by the competent authorities and institutions to this day. This Decision shall enter into force on the day The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development announced the end of the creation of a national food group co-financed by the Treasury in agreement with farmers, shareholders, employees and authorities of the National Sugar Company. These solutions - according to the Minister of Agriculture at the time - were to be, I quote: an excellent example that state-owned, in agreement with farmers, with workers does not have to be synonymous with grandfatherhood, mismanagement, thieving and helplessness. The next stage in the creation of the holding company is December 2019, when a regulation of the Council of Ministers enters into force, according to which the law of shares and shares, among others. The National Sugar Company and other entities of the Treasury of the agri-food sector took over the Ministry of State Assets. At least 13 entities were included in the list of companies taken over from the agricultural department to be part of the holding company, i.e. National Sugar Company - nine wholesale markets, two potato industry plants, two plant breeding, insemination and animal reproduction stations. In autumn 2020, Members of the opposition asked the Minister of State Assets for information on the holding company. We asked, among other things, when the promised holding company for 5 years will arise. What companies will be part of the group? What will the legal status of the group be? Is a separate organisational structure for administration and staff foreseen for the group? Was this project commissioned for paid expertise? And if so, what were the costs of these studies in connection with their development? According to the Minister of State Assets, the process of creating the Polish Food Group is at an advanced stage. Its completion is planned in the first half of this year. I would also like to remind you that in the agricultural programme of the Law and Justice of 2019 in the chapter: Care for the countryside and agriculture is written, quote: We will strengthen the stability of agricultural prices and income mainly by stabilizing the market activity of the Polish Food Holding. Holding will operate on the market on a fair basis and pay farmers fair prices and thus promote market stability. In crisis situations, we will initiate intervention measures, including. intervention buying-in of cereals or meat for strategic purposes. End of quote. Analyzing the above-mentioned project of the Polish Food Group, a number of questions arise that we would like to get satisfactory answers to, among others.How many employees will be employed in the Polish Food Group? Did the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and, in particular, the National Agricultural Support Centre ultimately transfer to the Ministry of State Assets commercial law companies, which are to form a capital group of the Polish Food Group? Are the general meetings of the shareholders of the WW. have the companies completed the clearing process for 2020? And have the shares of these companies already been transferred to the Ministry of State Assets? What costs have so far been incurred for the creation of the Polish Food Group? It's about expertise, advisors, the operation of teams involved in the process of creating a holding company. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are the target operating costs - Mr. Marshal, I approach the conclusions - by administration, buying, processing? What financial result is assumed in the following years of activity of the Polish Food Group? That's on the basis of a business plan, of course. If the Minister had revealed this information, we would have had a very strong sense of satisfaction. Finally: What is the position of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers on this project? Why has the work on the Polish Food Group accelerated now? Isn't it because you're going to get the money from the farmers in the National Reconstruction Plan? And did you obtain permission from farmers for this kind of action? One last question that's relevant. Namely: How much money from the National Reconstruction Plan will be devoted to the creation and functioning of the Polish Food Group, as well as other entities, including among others. Bydgoszcz - Emilianowo or Jurajski Agro Fresh Park SA with its registered office in Kościelce? We ask that the Minister be kind to answer these questions. My club will ultimately decide to support this project after having obtained an answer to the questions raised in this debate. Thank you. And thank you, Mr. Marshal, for extending your time. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u266	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mrs Anita Sowinska, who will present the position of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u267	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! One more question... No, no, not you. May I? Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Coalition Parliamentary Club Left on the government draft law amending the law on ownership transformations in the sugar industry. As indicated by the project applicant, the purpose of this regulation is to consolidate agri-food companies. It is intended to run on the basis of the National Sugar Company, which is the largest company with the participation of the State Treasury in this industry. This bill is a government project, which means that it was consulted in the process of the Government Legislative Centre. The project did not receive any major social comments, and in fact only one comment was made by the trade union. The Left respects the opinion of the trade unions and sugar beet growers, which is why we also want to support this project. But the devil is in the details. I would like to draw your attention to the broader, important context of this project. At yesterday's committee meeting, Minister Ślivka confirmed that this law is a prerequisite for the establishment of the National Food Holding. It will be a company that will run outside the sugar industry, i.e. its activities may also apply to, for example. the market for fruit and vegetables, meat or other agricultural products. The aim of the food holding company is to influence the competitiveness of Polish companies in the international market through optimization of financial management. Let us remember, however, that there are risks to this that you will not learn from official government communications. The first risk is for farmers and is linked to the imbalance of power on the market. The strong position of one company means that fragmented farmers will have less to say. A large player may dictate buying-in prices for beet or other agricultural products. As a result, farmers may - not necessarily, but can - earn less. We see this in the example of the vegetable and fruit market, where the farmer earns just a dozen percent of the final price of the product, and most of the profit is taken by intermediaries and large-area shops. If a large entity is even bigger, it can dictate lower prices for the purchase of agricultural fruits, and thus saves more money for itself. And this is how this optimization of financial management, which I mentioned earlier, works. The second risk is for shareholders and is that the role of a large state shareholder is increasing in relation to the shares of farmers and employees of the company. Currently, the State Treasury has 76% shares. Imagine this: Orlen's president is having a dream and says that from tomorrow he will invest in carrots, sugar or chicken. After the takeover of the Polish Press, nothing will surprise me. Suppose Orlen buys the shares of a sugar company. It can do this, it has a lot of money as opposed to farmers and unlike workers, i.e. employees' participation will decrease and they will have less impact on the company's activities. The third risk concerns all of us and involves how a holding company can spend its earned money. In a normal country, I would have no doubt: a sugar company should be involved in sugar processing and selling it, and a fuel and energy company should be involved in oil processing and investing in RES. But not in Poland, we do not live in a normal country. State-owned companies are used to fill positions by the PiS and are a bank with funds for various expenses, e.g. for advertising on public television, for ecclesiastical foundations, for national foundations, for shopping services and goods from friends, and the profits of companies are allocated not to investments in RES, but e.g. for purchase of Poland Press. At yesterday's committee meeting, we heard from the Minister about diversification or new business segments. It may mean nothing, but it might as well mean that a sugar company will cut down forests and build garbage incinerators. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Impossible? But that's diversification. I present these risks to you to show you a broader context, because this law can be beneficial, but it can also be used against farmers and against society. It may be that a food holding company will be pulling money from farmers, paying them less for agricultural crops and making more money, and then investing where Obietki wants it. Farmers can be effective, they can fight for their rights, but in the case of laws such as those that act gradually, in the long term, I fear they are vulnerable to the manipulation of the PiS, because the consequences are difficult to predict in this country of lawlessness and will not be immediately visible. What can protect farmers from these risks is strong agricultural compounds such as Denmark, Germany and the Netherlands. But does the government care about strong agricultural relationships? I'm having second thoughts, and this bill doesn't say anything about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u268	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will be presented by Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives regarding the government draft law amending the law on ownership transformations in the sugar industry, print No 1162. Currently Art. 11b of the Act of 26 August 1994 on ownership transformations in the sugar industry assumes that the shares of the new issue of the National Sugar Company SA may cover only sugar beet growers bound by contracts for the cultivation of sugar beet with the National Sugar Company or employees of the National Sugar Company SA or may acquire other persons exclusively in the form of shares with exclusive voting rights. In the event of an increase in the share capital of the National Sugar Company SA, the Treasury would acquire new issue shares with voting rights excluded. The proposed regulation provides for amendments to the Article. 11b. 4 of the Act and aims to harmonise the conceptual grid in terms of taking up new issue shares and regulating the legal situation of the State Treasury in this respect. Currently the Treasury holds 79,66% of the National Sugar Company shares. Today's draft law is necessary to consolidate these companies around the National Sugar Company. The planned consolidation of agri-food companies will consist of an increase in the share capital of the National Sugar Company, which will be covered by the State Treasury by an export in the form of shares held by the State Treasury in single-member agri-food companies. This amendment will enable the shareholder to contribute State resources to co-decision on the fate of a company proportional to its capital involvement. In the case of the creation of such a large holding company, which will merge several companies and will be responsible for an important branch of the national economy, such as agriculture, there are natural questions and doubts. First of all, the fundamental question is whether this draft law, through the new provision, will not give the State Treasury special powers over other shareholders, above all growers and employees, who currently account for more than 20% of the National Sugar Company. In addition, the increase in the group's capital and the integration of several companies into one holding should make the value of the shares increase. Therefore, current shareholders will earn an increased price per share. During the debate at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, there was a concern that the creation of such a large entity would disrupt market mechanisms. It's about making oligopoly. I hope that the assurance of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, who has agreed to consolidate and create the National Food Group, will be reflected in practice. I believe that the creation of the National Food Group will improve the situation of farmers and make our agriculture even more competitive towards Western Europe. At this point I would like to refer to the statements of a colleague of Telus, who in every speech has comments on the Polish People's Party. I would like Mr Telus to examine how the privatisation of Polish industrial plants has taken place over the years. It's about such a deep analysis. My fellow Member, at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, we can examine all the transformations that have taken place throughout the transition. There's one thing I'd like to say. What you said and what I would like... I would like this national holding company, which will rise, to serve farmers, so that farmers will be happy with this holding, but not as happy with Elewarr as they are with them. Elewarr was supposed to stabilise the prices, farmers were supposed to keep these prices, and we know how Elewarr works, what results he has, how much debt he has. The lowest prices that can be obtained on the market are used by Elewarr (The Bell), a company of the Treasury. Mr President, really draw constructive conclusions from his activities. There's one more thing I'd like to say. Marshal, one more second. We have a National Sugar Company and for super-limited beets that are normally in the contract, we pay 100%. Since the limits on beet prices have been abolished in Europe, why is the amount B paid by the State Treasury companies at the level of 50 ? Mr President, in England, state companies pay 22 pounds per tonne of beet and 20 pounds for the second amount. The role of the holding company is to help farmers. At first, I said I believed in this holding company's mission, but I also believe that what farmers get... I know how Elewarr paid Polish farmers over the years and how he stabilized prices in the cereals market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u270	Thank you very much. Corrigendum. Only the Member will present the position of his circle and then the Member will speak. Okay? Good. You're welcome, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, the Confederation, will present the position of his circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u271	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the law is intended to allow consolidation of agri-food companies under the agenda of the National Sugar Company. So, a few questions should be asked from this speaker. Is this project really designed to create a giant in the agri-food industry? Does the government have a real idea, real tools and skills to make the running of such a company developmental? Is there any common vision here about the creation of a company? At the committee meeting it was said that it was supposed to be not only a national player but also a global player. I have some concerns. The company will be managed by the Ministry of State Assets, which is why I fear it can end up like, for example. Power plant in Ostrołęka, elections for 70 million or it'll look like a keel in Szczecin. Ladies and gentlemen! Will farmers and growers benefit from these steps? Are you sure this will increase their profits, keep their economic stability? Times aren't easy. I have doubts that this is just another idea to pump huge money into wages by creating such artificial creations. I realize that a holding company like this can make a lot of money. Unfortunately, we've seen what the rulers can do to us. Poles - especially farmers - are tired of helping them forcefully. We saw it last year on animal Fridays. What is so urgent about this consolidation? Or would it be worth stopping for a moment, slowing down a little bit and rethinking it? We also need to remember that we were an exporter of sugar years ago. Today, by the scandalous inability of the previous crews, most of the sugar industry no longer exists. I feel like it's just a propaganda project. A beautiful logo has already been created, but the farmer and the consumer apart from promises may not see anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u272	Thank you very much. I understand that the Member will not let the Member speak on behalf of her circle. No problem. Here you go, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. A woman has priority. Mr Telus is then corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The law on ownership transformations in the sugar industry is probably a space for nationalisation, distortion of competitiveness and son. For 6 years you have been talking about the need to create an agri-food holding company and this is true, probably the need to shorten supply chains, the search for new markets common to Polish farmers is quite important, but this sudden acceleration, I have the impression, unfortunately carries very impure intentions. Unfortunately, you're used to everything you nationalize, turning it not into a state, but a party, and ending with big losses and understatements. As I said, yes, we need to shorten supply chains, yes, we need to look for new markets, but in PiS State Treasury companies unfortunately have not economic goals, not public goals, but political and party goals like Orlen buying on the order of the president of regional media, which are not at all its responsibility in terms of its business activities. The draft law, as we read, allows the merger of agri-food companies based on the National Sugar Company, which will allow, attention, the most important goal - to create new jobs and stabilise employment in the agri-food sector. Sounds like you're just new boys for your colleagues before some election. What about, ladies and gentlemen, with business goals, what about the assumption of a return on invested capital? How can citizens, de facto, whose money you want to invest through these asset and share transfers, trust you when instead of submitting some business plan and business goals to achieve, you're just talking openly about positions for your colleagues? The project also refers to the fact that these provisions are intended to enable the capitalization of the National Sugar Company, to take into account the public interest in the further functioning of the company. I'm just having second thoughts about whether the public is really public or your usual party. The recapitalisation of the company by the State Treasury is intended to enable the construction of a Polish food group. Thanks to these new solutions, growers, employees and the State Treasury will be entitled to take part in voting rights. And even in the course of the work on this law, the Governmental Legislative Centre pointed out that the law could be incompatible with the principle of equality resulting from the article. 32 constitutions. And I would like the Ministry's representative to address this complaint to the employees of the Government Legislative Centre. What is this part of the work on this bill about? It clearly states that this law aligns the legal situation of the Treasury and the growers and employees of the company, while disregards the reference to the legal situation of all other shareholders of consolidated companies and potential shareholders of the company. It shows where we are, what you're doing. And that makes my doubts really grow more and more. You've been calling an agri-food holding company for six years. Six years. In my previous term of office, I had the pleasure of working with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. In fact, five years you've been building this holding company. Convince us that this holding company will be aimed at economic considerations, looking for new markets, and it will not end in the fact that we will invest again the money of citizens, who will simply be burned out by you, because that's what you can do best. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u274	Thank you very much, Member. And now Mr Telus is being corrected. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u275	Dear Marshal, I must correct, because the Member did not understand me, because the Member says that I am still attacking the Polish People's Party. Here I must surprise you, I am not attacking the Polish People's Party and I will not attack because I have nothing against the Polish People's Party as a party. There's a party of the Polish People's Party. To be honest, several Members of the Polish People's Party even value and like, among others. Mr Ziejewski, Mr Zgorzelski, here I will also remind you of the Minister and the Member for many years, with whom I was even friends, maybe I liked Mr Kalemba very much. But I will certainly criticize the actions of the Polish People's Party. I criticize not the Polish People's Party as a party, because it is itself and has the right to be, but I criticize actions. For many years, when you ruled, you were responsible for Polish agriculture in different governments, you allowed us to lose Polish processing, you allowed us to lose Polish trade, you allowed us to lose Polish intermediaries and allowed the farmer to have no impact on the price of its products at the moment. And I will criticize, Mr President, not you as a person, because, as I said, very often I appreciate, but I will criticize your actions, because for many years your actions have led to this condition that the Polish farmer has no influence on the price of the Polish product, which does not happen anywhere else (Dawn), only in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u276	Thank you very much to the Member who has exercised his right of correction. We are now approaching questions that will require 60 seconds. Then I would like to ask Mr John Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Sugar Company is a legal person whose activities define numerous provisions from the Commercial Companies Code to a whole range of regulations resulting from the widely understood Exchange Law. I would like to ask if the rules on the right to acquire shares laid down by this law are not, by any chance, an omission of all the institutions whose task is to protect the rights of shareholders? Why is it that such decisions are not taken by standard means and the law is created under the order of a majority shareholder? Allow me, Minister, to ask you three questions and hope that I will receive an answer to these questions in writing. First of all, is it the consent of farmers for such action to be taken by the Sejm? Secondly, at what stage is the creation of the Bydgoszcz Emilianowo transhipment port in terms of, on the one hand, the concept, on the other hand, the preparation of this investment? And thirdly, what is (The Bell) the vision of creating this giant, what is the connection with increasing the profits of farmers and farmers, can farmers and breeders count on increased profits as a result of the adoption of this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u278	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The explanatory memorandum of the Act states that the National Sugar Company currently owns 79,69% of the State Treasury. In view of the above, I would like to ask: As a result of these planned changes, i.e. taking over, increasing this capital by taking over from other companies to the Treasury, what will be the relationship between growers and employees? Isn't their ownership situation at the National Sugar Company going to get worse? Is it possible, in return for this planned holding company to have good economic results, that this relationship can be compensated? The second point is (The bell) the opinion of the trade union (Solidarity) which raises the question of the acquisition of shares by employees in acquired companies. How will this be settled and whether it will be taken at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u280	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Pavel Papke a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u281	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, especially those from PiS, from the government, I have a question because you have been promising this wonderful Polish food group for over 6 years. In fact, in a moment it will be the end of the first half of 2021 when it was to be established. It's in a dozen or so days. So what? Where is this group? So I would like to strengthen the question of my excellent colleague Mr Kazimierz Plocke and, above all, ask: What companies, foundations will enter this group? The second question, the next question: How many people will be employed in this holding company, especially in the management team? Because, as my previous speakers mentioned, there's a big threat that these are gonna be jobs for their own, for their friends and friends in PiS. And above all, what costs will the Polish taxpayer bear? How much is all this gonna cost? Do you have plans and calculations of how much this whole group, the creation of this entire holding company will cost? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u282	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Why did it speed up? A simple answer: 1.3 billion PLN in KPO. It's a cashier's fee, ladies and gentlemen. I have a question, because from the moment you took power, for six years, it's the fifth programme for agriculture, and in every promise, a holding company that doesn't exist, which is like Yeti - you tell about it, but it doesn't. And now it's coming up, because all the companies in the starting blocks, the partnerships that were created, all the foundations. That's, among other things. Bydgoszcz Emilianowo's transhipment port, located in the mothership of the former Minister of Agriculture of Ardanowski. The special purpose company with the capital of PLN 2 million - the capital contributed to KOWR - the same name was already created. For money from KPO will also be financed the construction of the Yurai Agro Fresh Park, and this one in turn is associated with the mathematician secretary of state of Mr Giżyński. The special purpose company with its registered office in Kościelce has already been established. Ladies and gentlemen, these are collected companies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will be drawn - not for farmers, but only for the filling of their colleagues and for the parties' interests. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u284	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Kazimierz Plocke.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Two questions. The first question relates to the issue of the farmer's position in the whole process as regards participation in the food group. Will the farmer have an impact on sugar beet prices? According to the information you presented, the Treasury will have almost 85%. participation in shares, farmers of course much less. So what will the farmer's position be when it comes to holding shares? Second line. I wanted to ask: When did the Ministry of State Assets decide to create a Polish food holding company, what risks did you define when making this decision? Were they? ♪ Where there are weaknesses ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] This whole project? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u286	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u287	Mr. Marshal! I have a specific question for the Minister of Agriculture: Is there a valuation of the companies that will enter this holding? And if today the State Treasury has almost 80% and farmers and workers have 20%, how many farmers and workers will have shares after entering these strategic companies of the State Treasury? I think it's going to be a small, very small percentage. If you could figure out how much it would be, and put that information in writing, I'd be very pleased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u288	Thank you very much. I now ask you to answer Mr Andrzej Śliwka's questions, who is the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased that the speeches, questions and comments that were made during our discussion were not substantive about the provisions of the bill presented. I am happy about this because it is a good project. Why is it good? Because it is a project that will allow for a more effective and quicker process of consolidation of the agri-food market around the National Sugar Company, which was selected as an entity which will be an integrator of the Polish Food Group, according to the concept that was developed in the Ministry of State Assets. As I mentioned, this consolidation will take place, based on the leading role of the National Sugar Company as the largest entity with the participation of the State Treasury operating in the agri-food sector. High Izbo! Most of the questions were answered at the session of the Sejm Committee. The process itself, as this holding would look, was also presented yesterday at the agricultural committee meeting. Also yesterday at the hour. 20 were connected to the committees of agriculture and energy, climate and state assets, where in detail for most of these questions we outlined the position as the Ministry of State Assets. Nevertheless, there have been questions worth answering from this place. Ms Sowińska's question about ensuring the protection of interests. I would like to say that growers who are bound by the current law are the ones who are mostly bound by a sugar beet cultivation contract, and the employees of the national Treasury company are those who can acquire shares of the National Sugar Company in their current legal state. The sale of shares takes place in a circular manner. Therefore, speaking about the fact that there will be another person who could enter and exercise the right to vote is a false thesis. This amendment aims to ensure that the Treasury is not privileged. The idea is to bring, equalise the powers of the State Treasury with what the growers and employees of the National Sugar Company have. That's the only assumption. With regard to the concept that has been chosen - the formula for issuing shares, covering and submitting shares to companies that would simply increase the share capital of the State Treasury - it is clear that the State Treasury, which has been here many times mentioned, which has 79% in the company in question, it could exercise 100% voting rights from your actions. It's a natural thing. I think we all want the State Treasury to fully exercise the rights of shares in companies in which it has a shareholder. As to Mrs Hennig-Kloski's question, I would like to say that the Government Legislating Centre has accepted the project and has considered this issue to be clear, so this point seems to me to have already happened. As regards Mr Ziejewski's question, I would like to say that this amendment is intended, as I said, to align the powers of the State Treasury with those of workers and growers. And now the question is what will be the target share capital of the State Treasury. This will depend on which entities will be transferred to the National Sugar Company. Of course, in the original assumption, like the Minister, I am sorry, Mr President, we requested that these entities be transferred from the Treasury wallet. This assumption indicates 85% of the share of the Treasury shareholder in such a situation, in such a hand. Nevertheless, other acquisitions are possible, other purchases are possible. I don't want to take three steps forward, but then, of course, this Treasury shareholder will change. Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear that, by creating a strong player in the market, we will also enable growers and employees of the KSC, who are shareholders, to increase the value of their shares. And that is the value that the social side sees and respects. And one more thing. There have been many questions about the position of farmers and growers. I'd like to say that with a lot of concern... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, if I could just have a second. I'm almost done. ...and with great respect we approach the position of the social side. We've been seeing her many times. We have a clear position, which indicates that the road to construction of the Polish Food Group, which we have chosen, is a good road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u290	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the execution of business activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology (prints No 1085 and 1149). I ask Mr Wiesław Szczepański to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I would like to present a report to the committee on the examination of the government draft law amending the Act on the Production and Trading of Explosives, Arms, Ammunition, Military or Police Purpose Products and Technology, 1085 Seym Printing. The Marshal sent this draft to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading on 14 April 2021. The law on its regulation implements the directive... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, sir. Can we ask Members to respect the rapporteur? Yes. Thank you. The law on its regulation implements European Commission Implementing Directive 68/2019 of 16 January 2019 laying down technical specifications for the marking of firearms and their essential components in accordance with Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the control, acquisition and possession of weapons and the European Commission Implementing Directive of 16 January 2019 laying down technical specifications for alarm and signal weapons in accordance with Directive 91/477/EEC on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons. The most important solutions contained in the Act are that firearms and their essential parts are to be marked with a clear, durable and unique marking in accordance with the technical specifications for the marking of firearms and their essential parts. Those specifications are set out in the Annex to the Directive. The type of alphabet and the minimum size of the font and marking of small arms and their essential parts have been established. The law sets out the methods permitted by the State for the marking of small arms and their essential parts, with particular regard to the way in which the marking is applied on the skeleton or lock chamber of small firearms made of non-metallic materials. According to the Act, the device will be considered to be alarm and signal weapons and will not be considered to be firearms if the State-approved entity verifies and issues a certificate that it is an alarm and signal weapon manufactured in accordance with Union technical specifications. The authorized entity will be designated in the Regulation to the Act, and it is assumed to be the Central Police Criminal Laboratory. The Act sets out rules for the marking of alarm and signal weapons, including the marking of certain parts thereof, the type of alphabet and the size of the font of the marking. This also applies to an additional sign indicating that it is an alarm and signal weapon and its creation and placing on the market in Poland has been subject to national control. At the same time, the Act will establish a National Contact Point for Emergency and Signal Weapons, the main task of which will be to exchange information on the types and models of alarm and signal weapons manufactured and controlled by Member States. The new regulations are to enter into force 14 days after the announcement in the Official Journal of the Laws. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs carried out its first reading, examining this draft at its meeting on 12 May. During the committee's work, it was pointed out that the project should also be examined by the Committee on National Defence and perhaps by the economic committee on the basis of the matter concerned. In addition to the drafting and substantive amendments tabled by the Legislative Bureau of the Sejm, four substantive amendments were tabled, two of which were found by the members of the committee and clarified the definition of a specific part of the weapon. During the committee's work, perhaps an inaccurate translation into the Polish language of the directive was noted, especially since these matters are specialised. It was also found that, during the second reading, the government would propose amendments that would clarify these issues. As a result of the vote, the Commission adopted the report in print No 1149 submitted to the High House and proposes that the draft submitted be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u292	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would therefore like to ask Anna Maria Sarkowska, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present a position on the Government amendment of the Act on the Production and Trading of Explosives, Arms, Ammunition and Military or Police Purpose Products and Technology. The changes made, as stressed by the host of the law, namely the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, are due to the need to clarify the rules which need to be interpreted. They are also due to the intention to fully implement EU implementing directives in the Polish legal order - one which concerns technical specifications related to the marking of firearms and their essential components, and another which concerns technical specifications for alarm and signal weapons. Both implementing Directives should be implemented, fully implemented by the Member States of the European Union by 17 January 2020. The amendment of the bill introduces control of alarm and signal weapons. At the same time, however, it stresses that the trading of such weapons does not require a concession. The amendment amended the definition of ammunition, including its components, which do not contain explosives - bodies of artillery ammunition shells and shell casings, mine hulls, propulsion systems components, guidance and control of missiles, aerial and deep-sea bombs, torpedoes and target imitators. A very important element of the amendment is the need for each substantial piece of firearms to be labelled by the manufacturer as soon as it is manufactured, whether it is to be part of the firearms or to be placed on the market separately. Personally, I remember very well that when working on the law on the manufacture and trafficking of weapons and ammunition, the requirement that it has its origin in the EU directive was the source of many controversy and doubts expressed by entrepreneurs. It has been pointed out that the English version of the Directive contains a provision allowing for the interpretation of this requirement in such a way as to make it necessary to mark arms or any substantial part thereof as soon as they were manufactured. Unfortunately, the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the obligation to mark arms and their essential parts and the position of the European Commission on this issue has resulted from the fact that the obligation to mark all essential components has its origin for the general purpose of the directive and its systematics, and that it is therefore necessary to implement the necessity of marking all essential parts of weapons, whether they are part of firearms or will be placed on the market separately. (062...062) This amendment also includes a change in this respect. Other changes include: defining the way in which firearms and alarm and signal weapons are labelled - these are the issues that clarify and clarify - or the requirement that no other activities are carried out in places dedicated to weapons storage. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that the Law and Justice Club will support this draft amendment of the law in the vote. At the same time, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I make four amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u294	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Łącki will now speak, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, I have the honour to present a governmental bill amending the Act on the execution of business activities in the field of manufacturing and trading of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology, print No 1085. The main objective of the amendment is to implement two European acts in the Polish legal order: Commission Implementing Directive (EU) 2019/68 laying down technical specifications for the marking of firearms and their essential components and Commission Implementing Directive (EU) 2019/69 laying down technical specifications for alarm and signal weapons. The Act will directly concern about 800 economic operators holding a licence for the production or trafficking of arms in Poland. I have already mentioned from this place that reading the reasons for the laws of the United Right Government has become my hobby. Also in the explanatory memorandum to this law there is quite a rarity. I quote: The very short period of operation of this law does not allow it to be assessed in a comprehensive manner, and the proposed amendments are due to the need to clarify those provisions which have led to the need for their ongoing interpretation. It is therefore proposed that the new wording will allow them to be clearly understood by both the administrations and the businesses to which they are addressed. I appreciate the self-criticism, but it didn't work. This law is another example of an embarrassingly low level of legislation in the current parliamentary term, which we have already paid attention to many times. Shortening the legislative path, pushing the bill at night, unprepared and incompetent government representatives at committee meetings are the trademarks of government coalition legislators. Contrary to appearances, it is difficult to proceed with this law, hence the voices emerged in order to appoint a subcommittee and invite representatives of the three ministries to work in it, in accordance with their competences. Experts and committee members have repeatedly stressed the poor quality of the translation of the text of the directive, which raises a number of doubts, including interpretations, which, after all, are to be eliminated by the law. The bill is crawling with imprecise, questionable wordings, especially when discussing the definition of specific types of small arms. Experts have shown that Polish professional nicknames do not contain such terms and names as those used by the authors of the law. Many emotions have aroused the definition of alarm-signal weapons, which is defined differently in different places of the legal act and otherwise in the law on weapons and ammunition. Once you talk about firearms, once you talk about firearms, another time you talk about alarm weapons, while experts say it's enough to use the word bang weapons or acoustic weapons, because that's what the directive says. This seemingly trivial matter concerns many people, even those who practice sailing, because on every yacht there must be an alarm-signal weapon, or a popular rocket launcher. On the occasion of the vote on the amendment to include scales in the category of ammunition, Article. 1 point 2 of the contested law, there was a long discussion. There was a fear that the use of provisions proposed by the government side would result in militari pickers exploring battlefields being charged with illegal possession of ammunition, and at the antiquities fair there would be manhunts on craftsmen selling vases made of bullet casings. The Act imposes new obligations on the Chief Police Officer for the creation and conduct of the so-called police. contact points of the Signal and Alarm Weapons Register, new obligations for entrepreneurs to obtain paid certificates of the nature of the weapons in question. The Central Police Crime Laboratory is basically the only unit in the country that has the facilities to issue such certificates. The government's representative reassured that all the expertise provided by this law would be paid to economic operators, so there is no requirement the transfer of additional funds to him. However, there is concern that the new responsibilities will not affect the quality of the laboratory's work in its key tasks. Despite these reservations, the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform will support this law, but amends it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u296	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Paweł Krutul will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the amendment is to implement two European instruments into the Polish legal order: Commission Implementing Directive (EU) 2019/68 of 16 January laying down technical specifications for the marking of firearms and their essential components, in accordance with the Council Directive on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons, and the Commission Implementing Directive laying down technical specifications for alarm and signal weapons, in accordance with the Council Directive on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons. As regards the implementing acts laying down technical specifications for the marking of firearms and the specifications for alarm and signal weapons, work has been carried out on the European Commission's replacement of the Firearms Committee. The main provisions of the Directive address the following issues: marking and traceability of weapons history, requirements for the acquisition and possession of firearms, the European Firearms Card, the stripping of performance. The main demands in the document are about harmonising the marking of firearms and coordinating the use of various databases in order to facilitate the tracking of weapons and the fight against crime. On the other hand, the following fields of impact are taken into account in the development of the European Union's integrated firearms policy: the protection of the market for legal civilian firearms, the limitation of the entry of firearms into the hands of criminals, the increased pressure on criminal markets, the building of better intelligence capacity. Solutions that are included in the amended act. Records shall be entered concerning the type of alphabet and the minimum font dimensions of the marking of small arms and their essential parts. State-approved methods for the marking of small arms and their essential parts shall be laid down, with particular regard to the way in which the marking is applied to the frame or lock chamber of small firearms made of non-metallic materials, in particular polymer plastics. This includes firearms and signals by statutory regulations resulting from Directive 2019/69. Previously, this was not a regulated issue in Polish legislation. The law contains a whole package of rules that clarify the definition of signal and alarm weapons. The definition of ammunition has been clarified and extended by adding artillery ammunition and shell casings, mine hulls, propulsion systems components, missile guidance and control, air and deep-sea bombs, torpedoes and target imitators. Signal and alarm weapons and firearms that are devoid of use... Under Directive 2019/69, these devices may be exempted from the definition of firearms. The way in which the signal and alarm weapons have been manufactured is to ensure that these devices are in no way capable of projecting a missile and will only fulfil their primary task, i.e. to alarm, signal or save lives, and can only be used for these declared purposes. The categories and sub-categories of small arms are also to be included in transport consent forms and prior transport approvals in the case of arms movements within the European Union. Amendments to the term of validity of medical and psychological certificates issued for the purpose of granting or amending concessions have been proposed. The present law primarily implements EU law and, in the scope described above, contributes to greater transparency in the acquisition, manufacture and control of firearms, signals and alarms. In relation to the issue raised in the Act, mechanisms are created that enable the tracking and supervision of weapons and their sensitive components by giving them State-specific markings. The Left Club will support this bill, but it does make two amendments to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u298	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, the Conservatives will speak to Marek Biernacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was my honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland regarding the presentation of the government from print no.1085, the draft law amending the Act on the execution of business activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology. The primary objective of the amendment is to implement two European instruments into the Polish legal order: Commission Implementing Directive (EU) laying down technical specifications for the marking of firearms and their essential components and the Implementing Directive laying down technical specifications for alarm and signal weapons. In addition, the draft contains provisions clarifying the mother's law, which is subject to amendment. The implementation of the provisions of Commission Directive (EU) involves the statutory finding that firearms and their essential parts, whether part of firearms or placed on the market separately, must bear a legible, durable, unique marking applied in accordance with the technical specification. This involves determining the type of alphabet and the minimum font dimensions of the small arms marking. In addition, the provisions of the Government's submission clearly define the specification of the alarm and signal weapons and introduce rules on the marking of those weapons and parts thereof, including additional markings indicating that they are alarm and signal weapons. The project introduces the institution of the entity authorised to verify... [[Game in the O.R.]] Minister, wait a minute. Colleagues, allow the Member to speak in peace. ...compatibility of the manufacture of firearms with the specifications for alarm and signal weapons and for issuing a certificate of non-recognition of such firearms as firearms. CLKP, or, in other words, the Central Police Crime Lab, was the authorized entity. I am very pleased that Minister Wąsik and the chairman of the committee are here, who are so nicely discussing, because I believe that the CLKP should be prepared in substance and financially specifically to carry out these activities, because if these activities are slow, Polish entrepreneurs will suffer. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is clear to all present that most of the legislation on this matter, i.e. the manufacture and trade of weapons must be precise and unambiguous. This reduces the risk of weapons trafficking by organised crime, extremist movements and terrorist groups. Delicate matter, which is the manufacture and marketing of military or police weapons and ammunition, must in no case contain solutions which raise doubts as to interpretation. It must be borne in mind that the discussion on the proposed two years ago and the current solutions pointed to a number of areas which are, to put it mildly, at least imprecisely defined or indeterminate. It is clear that even after the bill presented today will remain a number of interpretation problems, such as imprecise, often contradictory and even incorrect translations of individual definitions. The High Chamber does not seem particularly suitable for discussing the definition of mushroom shells or analysing historical artillery shells. We know for sure that by implementing EU law or by improving the solutions already introduced, we cannot allow the creation of chaos even in the Polish arms industry. Nor can we compromise the functioning of historical reconstructors or collectors. A precise adaptation of Polish law to EU solutions seems necessary. This is the overriding thing of our discussion today. Therefore, I would like to end my speech with an appeal to the Marshal, the Sejm Bureau. Please consider setting up a special subcommittee composed of Members of several trade committees, which deals with the matter of this law, which will without haste prepare a law which will be correct in substance, in language and in legislative terms, and thus contain appropriate definitions in accordance with technical terminology. I'm afraid otherwise, in the year's time, we'll start working in an emergency mode for another emergency amendment. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u300	Thank you very much, Minister. If the Minister makes such a request, I will try to hold it at the Sejm Bureau because I find it very appropriate. Thank you. I would now ask that Mr Krzysztof Tuduj and Mr Dobromir Sosnierz speak on behalf of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The proposed submission aims to bring Polish legislation into line with EU law. The Union regulations in question are, in principle, maintained in the spirit of limitations on the ability to trade in arms, not as a shooter, but as being capable of serving as such after the technical conversion and parts of such weapons. The rationale for implementing regulation is to increase crime in the European Union using precisely such weapons. As a general rule, in the current state of affairs in which we create a common market, these regulations aim to reduce crime and thus increase the level of security in the European Union. It's hard to deny. However, the problem arises with the clumsy one - it has already happened several times today - and the moments of mindless implementation of EU law, starting with the fact that the directive formally no longer applies because it has been repealed by the provisions of an act which has been in force for less than a month. True, it is a single text and regulation that is the same, but ignoring it is disturbing. The submission clarifies the definition of ammunition in a way that is too broad, because it includes shells of artillery ammunition, that is, waste arising from the firing of the bullet, which is not ammo and will no longer be. This is a real problem because this regulation will hit military enthusiasts and militari collectors collecting this type of artifacts. Such a harmless shell shall be placed in one line with components of propulsion systems, guidance and control of missiles, aircraft bombs, etc. A shell, which is only worth scrap when fired, as it is part of a single use and is only collector's value. Artillery shells include relatively small scales, their quantity in Poland after the turbulent 20th century and two world wars. It will open up a gap for police officers to make up for statistics, who will be entitled to charge collectors, enthusiasts who trade scales on the Internet or even farmers who have so far been regularly digging up such junk during field cultivation. The courts will quash the case, but is that what we're trying to do to generate unnecessary burden for the state budget? There should be a clarification of the scope of the provision with a non-fired shell casing, which would clearly distinguish new casings as a production element from waste shells after the launch of the bullet. Moreover, much to be desired leaves a translation of the provisions of the EU directive, which is carried out at moments of thoughtlessness, often using the language calculator, without reflecting on the actual meanings of the names used and the moments of ignoring the Polish legal order, which will raise interpretation problems in the future. I'm glad it's already fallen from the podium many times today. Some of these inaccuracies have been removed during the commission's work, while the issue of alarm weapons, signal weapons and mushroom ammunition remains. The first combines two different types of weapons - a bang weapon that does not fire any missile and a signal weapon such as rockets, already defined in the Act on Arms and Ammunition in Article. Paragraph 7 Two and three. The very problem of mushroom ammo, whose name has been translated from English, concerns a special missile, and in Polish it will mean practically every kind of ammunition. These issues were highlighted by the shooter's community. In addition, there is a short vacathio legis. I think we could make money as a country of the Polish custom, that not everything must enter into force after 2 weeks to give time to entrepreneurs to adapt and calmly prepare for implementation of the law. I am signing off on what has already been said that this law should continue to work calmly to remove doubts. Unfortunately, I expect her to be pushed through her knee. Thank you kindly for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u302	Thank you very much. Will Mr Sosnierz use these 39 seconds? There you go. Let me tell you something.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u303	We are inevitably going to a scenario where all the hairs on our heads will be counted. Now you're gonna get on with another one, your curiosity knows no bounds, now you're gonna want to count scales, count parts, count guns owned by citizens, even unarmed for shooting. The cost of this calculation is, of course, passed on to citizens and entrepreneurs. And I don't want you to know that. Once created a tool of oppression is later creatively used to implement and expand further regulations. The new regulations, which can be compared in detail to the size of the font, reflect the true face of EU bureaucrats, on which you are calling for such fiddles. Let us have some dignity and respect our legislation (the bell), let us not put such foolishness in it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u304	Thank you very much, sir. And now, on behalf of the Circle of Parliament, Poland 2050, Mr Mirosław Suchoń will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u305	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050, I am pleased to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the execution of business activities in the field of manufacturing and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology - upon presentation of the report of the committee in print No 1149. Ladies and gentlemen! This law entered into force on 1 August 2019, which is relatively recent. The stated purpose of this amendment is, on the one hand, the need to clarify those provisions whose application necessitated their ongoing interpretation and, on the other hand, to implement two acts of European law in the Polish legal order, i.e. Commission Implementing Directive (EU) 2019/68 which lays down technical specifications for the marking of firearms and their essential components in accordance with the Council Directive on control of the acquisition and possession of weapons and Commission Implementing Directive (EU) 2019/69 laying down technical specifications for alarm and signal weapons. With regard to the government's draft amendment, it is difficult not to recall what happened during the process of the original text of the law. I recall that this process was full of dynamic returns, including calling on the carpet of Members of the Law and Justice who wanted to improve these rules. Both the social side and the Members working on the bill indicated that the law was not prepared in an appropriate way. It contained many inaccuracies and imprecise rules that might pose difficulties in applying them correctly. All of this was caused by problems with extremely imperfect, so as not to use another word, to translate the provisions of the directive itself. Although the issue of translation is not only a Polish problem, few countries with the arms industry, which can be compared to ours, or more, have decided to implement the provisions of the directives without further reflection. Unfortunately, that is what the government of law and justice did. At that time, I called on the government to stop pushing these rules with its knee and focus on improving content, improving definitions, agreeing with industry and the social side of those definitions that need to be agreed, and solving translation problems. Of course, the government did not listen to this, and today it turns out that little has changed, while Members - then both Members of the majority and Members of the opposition - were just right. It was then necessary to stop this bill, to make it look like a serious act, not to stick a knee, and today there would be no many problems. Although these rules are not even 2 years old, the government itself acknowledges that, in addition to the implementation of the new rules, the new directives, there is a need to clarify the rules because there are problems with interpretation. And here's the eureka. We talked about this in 2019, the government unfortunately did not listen and today we have the results as they are. Unfortunately, similar doubts as in the original text of the Act also arise today. This applies, for example, to the broad issue of the definition of alarm-signal weapons or signal-alarm weapons, or alarm and signal weapons, because different names appear. There is a name chaos and I fully agree with the conclusion that even the Ministry is willing to use these terms. In this area, very precise solutions are needed, as the semantics adopted by the government also interferes with the existing solutions. In this context, it should be noted that, according to experts' opinions, the inclusion in the procedated design of such designations, which are applied to completely different things, could lead to chaos. This is the case, for example, with regard to the definition of the Arms and Ammunition Act in the field of signal weapons, but there are also doubts about the legislation on shell casings, which may impact artifact collectors. Of course, there is still no full clarity about the responsibilities and costs associated with business responsibilities, but also the central crime lab. In view of my position, the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 will refer to this draft in the vote (the bell), after examining the amendments tabled and taken over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u306	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Member wants to enroll in the questions, please. Let's get to the questions. The time for questioning is 1 minute. He will be the first to ask the question by Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are proceeding with the bill concerning the performance of business activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons and ammunition. It is a law that concerns around 800 economic operators who hold operating licences or arms trade. It is primarily a law that implements EU directives and adapts Polish legislation to EU law. I would not like to raise substantive issues, but I would like to draw attention to what has been said about the care of the legislative process, the translation of legal acts, the definition - it cannot be that in one law or in several laws we define in a completely different way the same object or the same activity. Therefore, I have questions: What was the implementation like? Who was translating this piece of legislation? How long has it been? Because in particular, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of specialist legislation on a very narrow subject matter of activity, [[♪ The bell ♪]] implementation should be carried out with the utmost care. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u308	The question will be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Maria Bakerska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! When shooting and handling weapons, but also when drafting legislation, precision is needed. In my opinion, the precision of this bill was completely lacking. Because here's the definition. alarm and signal weapons - I will not bully the translation - but we also have a definition of this weapon in the gun and ammunition law in the article. 7. And that's a completely different definition. I'm afraid this may cause very serious interpretation problems. Here is the question: Have you noticed this problem? The second question is: Why are we working so late on this bill? I think you could've worked on it before. Another thing - a lot of colleagues have said about it, but I'm going to say it again, because it's extremely important - these are unfired artillery ammunition casings, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which can lead to this... Such a provision may lead to the fact that collectors of such ammunition, collectors, will simply be responsible for the illegal possession of weapons. I don't think that was your intention. Because if I did, I'm sorry, but it would be absurd. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u310	Thank you very much, Member. The question will be asked by Mr Artur Łącki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u311	Mr. Marshal! I've seen Minister Moustache somewhere. I hope he hears, because the question will be addressed to him. Minister! At the committee meeting, you asked me to say that the bill would not have any financial impact on those 800 entities that are licensed to trade and manufacture weapons in Poland, and then we learned that when it comes to signal and alarm weapons - we say that bangishing to determine that these weapons are precisely such weapons - we will need to do an expert study in the Central Police Crime Laboratory and this expertise will be paid. So I wanted to know what it was like: whether it would have, however, financial consequences for these 800 entities or whether it would not have financial consequences. Because if it has financial consequences, I think we're gonna have to compensate for it somehow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u312	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendments to the legislation on the production and trafficking of arms and ammunition are undoubtedly intentional and necessary. The system of marketing these materials requires unambiguousness as to symbolism, marking and qualification of all elements of the final product without exception. In this respect, many inaccuracies have been corrected by the committee in the not well-written bill. However, I did not find in the project effective mechanisms to protect Polish, but also the European market for trading of these materials before the activities of companies similar to those which deceived the large millions of Bydgoszcz Nitro-Chem in transactions related to the TNT, and then the Ministry of Health, selling it non-existent ventilators. The voters ask through me the government what effective solutions the project developer proposes in this regard. The last question - a question for the marshal. Mr. Marshal, why wasn't the draft of this bill being prosecuted by the National Defence Commission? Is this a bad sign for the Polish national defence, indicating that the Polish national defence will not have a purchase (Bell) of ammunition this year? That's why the National Defence Committee didn't investigate this case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u314	Thank you very much for asking the question and bringing up the important issue. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski will now ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The bill includes artillery ammunition shells components. Of course, it is reasonable that the production of new shell casings is covered by concessional supervision, while the same supervision is to be covered by the marketing of shell casings. That doesn't make sense. This shell casing after firing is nothing but scrap metal, colored metal, and for collectors, of course, something of a military nature. They do not pose any threat to public security, nor are they a carrier of military or police destiny. For possession of these shell casings, the legislator provides for penalties and charges of illegal possession of weapons and ammunition, compared with the charge of possession of ammunition, bombs, torpedoes, etc. Is it justified in such a arrangement to fear that this solution adopted today will result in the placing of such militaria - when they put them on the stock market or sell - a charge of illegal possession of ammunition and trafficking in ammunition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u316	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask you to ask Mr Paul Krutul for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this case, you have to be very precise. Therefore, it is worth considering - for the sake of clarity of the rules - whether the phrase translated from English, i.e. alarm and signal weapons, has been translated from English correctly in the context of already existing definitions in our legislation. For signal weapons are defined in the Law on Weapons - Art. Paragraph 7 2 and Article 2 Paragraph 7 3 of the same bill is defined as an alarm weapon. So these are two different types of weapons, as the definitions show. That's why I have a question: Shouldn't alarm and signal weapons be translated as bang weapons? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u318	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Robert Obaz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Reading this law literally, we can conclude that all collectors who collect militaria may be suspected of being arms dealers. Arms dealers haven't supplied us with ventilators until today, but today, everyone who collects casings can be charged with collecting them. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, won't the lack of distinction between new and worn shell casings lead to an allegation of illegal possession of ammunition and ammunition to collectors fired, used shell casings? After being fired, such a shell becomes an ordinary object made of colored metal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u320	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Mr Tomasz Szymański.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Already during the committee's deliberations there were doubts about this law, but above all about its subject matter. These doubts had a genesis in 2019, as we have also mentioned here, and concerned many aspects of the Procededed Law. Already in 2019 we pointed out how often it has been it is said today in the Parliament's Chamber that this is an ambiguous situation and that we are clearly able to understand the provisions of the intention of the legislator. Now, during the work of this committee, they have multiplied. Minister! During the work of the committee, I called on you - because of the very difficult matter of this law, very difficult to define certain concepts - I asked you to consider setting up a special subcommittee, composed not only of members and ministers of the Ministry of Interior and Administration, but also to expand it, including the Economics Committee and the Committee on National Defence. The matter is very delicate, so it should be defined, clarified so that it does not raise doubts in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u322	Thank you very much. A similar request has already been made by Minister Biernacki. Perhaps you do need to... Joint with Minister Biernacki, absolutely. Yes, sir. Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u323	Dear Marshal, I would join Mr Biernacki and Mr Szymanski's proposal to set up this subcommittee or direct such intentions in this implementation, even though I am not a member of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. I would also like to join the comments on translation and the quality of preparation of the implementation solution for the Polish legal order which Mr Rusiecki and Mrs Piekarska have made. After all, we did not have such an outrageous translation of the directive itself - first of all. Secondly, I would like to ask the Minister what happened that, since the deadline for implementing this provision was 2019, two more years had to wait. Only today have we finished working in the Committee on Public Finance on the implementation of the VAT Act, so you do everything either after the deadline or at the last moment. What is the reason why we have not implemented this provision could threaten the financial consequences of the failure to implement this directive? The delicateness of matter and the preciseness of the regulations introduced were discussed, among others. My colleagues from the Civic Coalition. I would ask the Minister to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u324	Thank you very much, Member. I ask you to ask Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u325	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the text of the directive itself and translations. That's actually the problem. not only in Poland, this is a problem in terms of this specificity - I would say - about the European dimension, but it cannot be left to the issue itself. Therefore, I ask you to answer the question: What kind of ministry or government, in the last two years, have, more broadly, taken action to ensure that these specialized weapons directives are translated, not by general translators, but by translators who understand specificities. Two years ago, when we were investigating the original bill, it was a very serious problem, and today there are various kinds of consequences. The question is very much to ask for a reply in writing: What measures did the government take to ensure that these specific directives were adequately translated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u326	Thank you very much. On this, the list of Members asking questions is closed. I ask Mr Bartosz Grodecki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration to answer these questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u327	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I want to start with this magical translation. Translation, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the work done by the officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, my office, your director of the Department of Authorisations and Concessions. The translation done by the committee in such a good way is a document, and since it is a document, interference in the translation is very difficult, complicated. It is possible, of course, because, after consultation with experts from the Military Technical Academy, the directive was accompanied by an appropriate annex, corrigendum. On the other hand, according to the opinion of the European Union Law Department, the Directive should be implemented explicitly. Honestly, those questions that were coming down here and repeating themselves... So for a good cause somewhere here it was raining, that the social side, experts, said that the directive was mistranslated. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out that a team of specialists from the Military Technical Academy, WIT, CLKP, participated in the work on this bill. For a good cause, these definitions were created by specialists from these institutions. I don't see why it would be worth questioning the powers of these people. As far as the social side is concerned, the social side was also involved in the drafting of the legislation. I don't really know how to address the questions that fell, that on the one hand the bill is pushed fast, knee, on the other hand, that it is allowed to be processed. Maybe a little bit about the history of running this project. First, the project was prepared, as you have noticed, in 2019. The implementing directives were issued with a six-month delay. At the time when it was issued, the 2019 Act was already at a very advanced stage of legislative work and the withdrawal of it would result in the non-implementation of the existing EU directives. Therefore, work on the 2019 Act has been completed and work has only been started on the implementation of these two implementing directives and the transposition of the provisions of these Directives into legal order. Many times you have also asked about the pursuit of collectors. No, ladies and gentlemen, no one will be chasing collectors and they have no intention. Nobody's chasing, chasing, chasing, chasing, chasing, chasing, chasing, chasing, chasing, chasing, chasing, chasing, chasing. The amendment was introduced at the request of the Ministry of National Defence. Here too, Mr Marshal, if I may, I will refer to the request which was also raised by your Members and which was raised in committee. On the bill, the Ministry of National Defence, as well as military property academy, worked on the provisions of this law. This law essentially concerns the trafficking of weapons for civil use, and therefore there was no request, I understand, to your marshal or to the Sejm Bureau, for the establishment of a special subcommittee, which was asked here by the Members. That's enough for a good cause, because I know the questions have been repeated. I hope that practically everything I've written down I've answered. And the ones I didn't answer... About the cost. Oh, costing, of course. The CLKP will indeed charge a fee as an eligible entity, but it will be a one-off fee. Later, a businessman trades this weapon in an unfettered manner, so I understand that such a one-off fee is able to bear, especially since it will not be relatively high. Do you know how much? Excuse me. Do you know how much? That doesn't go beyond... Average. ...average salary. So I hope that I have been able to answer as many questions as possible. To those I have not responded to, of course, we will respond in writing. Will the fee apply to one type of weapon or one delivery? No, kind, kind. It's a weapon that gets turned off and doesn't go under the arms and ammunition laws. Genesis. Kind of, not delivery.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u328	Thank you very much, Minister. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Sejm is the host of the law and the legislative process and, if it so decides, such a subcommittee could arise. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why I answered the question that the MON was involved in this consultation. Thank you very much. I'll answer that. Yes, sir. Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur, Mr Szczepański, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you all so much for speaking. I would also like to respond to Mr Szymanski. It was not possible to convene a subcommittee composed of three committees for one reason, such that the project was addressed only to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. I'm the one who knows. On the other hand, there was a deadline for the submission of the report, and therefore there was no request for a subcommittee from these three committees because it was simply not possible to do so. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs was the committee responsible and considered this project, but it pointed out at the time of the presentation that the next amendment should be addressed to three committees, as I said, joined by the Committee on National Defence, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Home Affairs, so that we could work together on this project, because in part maybe our committee is not in power. At the same time, I would like to say that in the part of the amendments which were tabled by Law and Justice, they restore the provisions which were in the original version of the Act before the amendments were adopted. We'll be discussing them today at the committee meeting. The Commission will decide whether to recommend their adoption to the High House or to leave the report in this part as it has been adopted. Thank you very much again, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u330	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas (Prints 1126 and 1150). I ask Mr Mieczysław Baszka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour to present on behalf of the committee a draft law amending the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas. The Commission for Administration and Home Affairs examined the Act on 13 May 2021. The draft Act amending the Act on the Safety of Persons in Water Areas aims to clarify the legal provisions regarding the definition of water rescuer currently contained in the article. 2 point 5 of that law by specifying how many other qualifications useful in water rescue should be held by a water rescuer, as well as introducing a statutory authorisation for the Minister responsible for Home Affairs to issue a regulation setting out other qualifications useful in water rescue and a list of evidence of their possession. The draft clarifies that this is a useful qualification for water rescue as referred to in Article. 2 point 2 of that law, to carry out rescue activities listed in Article. 13 of this bill. The project also provides that persons performing medical professions: a doctor of the system of State Medical Rescue, a nurse of the system of State Medical Rescue, a paramedic, who carry out professional training, meet the requirements for having another qualification useful in water rescue. It was accepted that competence in the field of rescue medicine for persons performing medical professions would be exchanged at the level of the Act on other qualifications useful in water rescue. At present, the definition of a water rescuer does not indicate how many other skills a water rescuer should have. The planned regulation clarifies the requirements for the water rescuer by indicating that the water rescuer has at least one qualification useful in water rescue. The proposal therefore proposes to move the regulation concerning the definition of water rescuer to the new editorial unit and repeal point 5 of Article. 2 Act of 18 August 2011 on the safety of persons residing in water areas and after Article. 15 add Article. 15a. The draft law authorises the Minister responsible for Home Affairs to issue implementing rules specifying other qualifications useful in water rescue and a list of evidence of such qualifications, taking into account that these qualifications may be useful for rescue operations undertaken in the framework of water rescue. However, current legislation does not define the concept of other qualifications useful in water rescue, which makes it difficult to identify precisely which qualifications are included in the catalogue. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration has published guidelines in this area, but this issue should be regulated by law. The practice so far shows that other qualifications useful in water rescue are very important for professional water rescue. The absence of such qualifications of water rescuers will prevent the performance of basic statutory tasks by bodies authorised to perform water rescue. Designed regulation is expected in the environment of water rescuers. The bill does not generate administrative burdens, it will not result in additional costs for water rescuers. According to the current wording of the Act, water rescuers are obliged to have other qualifications useful in rescue. The proposal also provides for an authorisation for the Minister responsible for Home Affairs to issue a regulation, which will allow the creation of a catalogue of other qualifications useful in water rescue. Thus, the rule of law will specify precisely which qualifications allow for the acquisition of water lifeguard privileges. I would also like to stress that the bill is compatible with EU law. There was also an amendment tabled regarding the date of entry into force of the Act. The government side has accepted this amendment, the bill will not enter into force before the summer and summer season. The bill was proposed to enter into force on 1 October, which pleased the committee. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs welcomes the draft law and recommends that it be adopted by the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u332	Thank you very much, sir. I'm declaring a 10-minute break due to technical difficulties. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 37 until 3 p.m. 18 min 51]] Dear Members, We still need about 15 minutes so that the gentlemen who are working to fix the system can allow us to continue our deliberations. Please be forgiving. Marshal, turn on the stopwatch. Dear Member, if it were so simple, we would not be taking a second break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 51 hrs. 19 min 05]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u333	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas from Print No 1126. Ladies and gentlemen! Many people in the water would like to take advantage of this opportunity to regenerate their strength, recover their health. The aquatic environment is such a primary environment for each of us, but unfortunately sometimes it can pose a fatal threat to us. It is therefore extremely important that emergency services operate in the water rescue sector. According to the World Health Organization, about 400,000 people die every year in the world as a result of drowning. persons. In Poland, data from the Police Headquarters show that this is how 500 to 700 people die each year. The sinking process is very fast and it is therefore extremely important that professional services act immediately here and now, unlike other services that can plan rescue operations. The Ministry has therefore prepared a draft amendment to the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas. This project solves several problems that appeared in the Polish legal order. Firstly, the definition of a water lifeguard was currently missing. It was not indicated what other qualifications and how many of them should be provided by a water rescuer. There was a lack of regulation of the concept of other qualifications useful in water rescue. This draft law clarifies the documents confirming the acquisition of these other skills necessary for the operation of rescue operations. In the current legal order, a water rescuer may be a person who has knowledge and skills in the field of water rescue and swimming techniques, has other qualifications useful in water rescue, meets the requirements set out in the Act on State Medical Rescue for System Doctors, System Nurse, Medical Rescue Officer performing professional training and is employed or served in a craft authorised to perform water rescue. As you can see, at many moments, there is an expression that a lifeguard should have other qualifications useful when performing rescue operations. Rescue operations shall consist in particular of the acceptance of an accident or threat notification, the arrival of an accident with appropriate emergency equipment, the granting of qualified assistance, the security of the accident site, the evacuation of persons from a place which poses a risk to life and health and the transport of persons who have suffered an accident or are at risk of loss of life or health in the aquatic area. Therefore, other qualifications that are not currently defined in the legal order are necessary and should be useful for rescue operations listed in the above paragraphs 1. to 7. There is therefore an urgent need to regulate this situation. Today's draft law provides for the possibility of clarifying the other qualifications of a water rescuer, which will be necessary in carrying out these activities, as well as giving the Home Minister the power to define these qualifications by means of a regulation, an implementing act. And these are qualifications that can be useful in carrying out these tasks, e.g. qualifications for the management of vessels in inland waters and qualifications for water tourism, qualifications in maritime navigation, such as certificates, patents in inland navigation, motorboat rights, certificates and diplomas in maritime navigation. Qualification of persons who perform medical professions, here qualifications for confirmation of skills by a system doctor, nurse of State Medical Rescue or paramedic [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a medical emergency. All these issues will be clarified in the draft law as well as in the implementing regulation, which is why it was necessary to prepare this amendment, for which I thank the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration very warmly. By the way, I would like to thank all the water rescuers who often devote their lives to these tasks so that we can rest safely over the water reservoirs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u334	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Mateusz Bochenk to present the position of the Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u335	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Water rescuers do exceptional work, which they consider to be a special service, for it is focused on saving human life. We remember them in a special way and remember their great sacrifice and action when we go on vacation on various kinds of waters during the summer, where they take care of safety: by the sea, on lakes, but also at other waters. They're the ones who have a huge responsibility. Therefore, it is important that people who carry out these tasks have experience, skills and efficiency. Therefore, it is extremely worrying, my dear country, when we hear from rescuers about often dramatic situations, about the lack of funds to buy equipment or pay, about the fact that they must think about matters so fundamental and fundamental. Such situations should absolutely not take place. These people should not be forced to organize public gatherings to survive to insure or repair equipment. For years, subsidies have been unchanged, we haven't bought new equipment for years, we won't get enough," says one of the water rescuers. It cannot be that experienced rescuers leave the service because they lack money for their wages or do not have the resources to buy the necessary equipment to save human life. Today, concrete, rapid action is needed in this area. Here we absolutely should not think about patching any hole, it must be definitely a comprehensive solution. Today, in a special way, we want to hear from the water rescuers that the government has stood up to the task, that Parliament has stood up to the task, that the voivods have stood up to the task and these subsidies have increased and that the problem that they are dealing with today has been solved. Today, Minister, we are attempting to amend the Act in order to clarify the definition of a water rescuer by specifying how many other qualifications a water rescuer should have in place, as well as the introduction of a statutory mandate for the Minister responsible for Home Affairs to issue a regulation setting out other useful qualifications. The qualifications necessary for the pursuit of certain professions should be defined, not in doubt, but in the regulation, but in the laws, as indicated by the Constitutional Tribunal. This is not discretionary matter, it is definitely a duty. The definition of conditions for the pursuit of a profession or certain professional activities is a matter of fundamental importance for the freedom of the profession pursued. These matters must be governed by the law and cannot be transferred to the regulation, as indicated by the Constitutional Court in its 2007 judgment. It also wonders why it is only today that the Sejm deals with these regulations on the eve of the summer season. At first reading, a representative of the Polish Towns Association made a good point to delay the entry into force of these regulations in time for them to enter into force from 1 October, because the introduction of them in the middle of the summer season could cause some chaos. If by the beginning of the year, when the regulations were ready, they were in the Sejm, they would be in force today. It is also surprising that this time has not been used to consult widely with all entities involved in water rescue. We have 116 of them, and only a few took part in this consultation. Today we also need a broad change and a broad discussion on this law, which we are looking for today, as also requested by rescuers themselves, people who, as I said, are working, doing this service to ensure our safety. High Izbo! The Civic Coalition therefore makes amendments to this matter concerning the regulation of the law and the regulation accordingly, so that there is no legislative doubt as to the subject matter we are proceeding today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u336	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Rafał Adamczyk to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u337	Dear Marshal, Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with a government bill amending the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas. A little dry facts from the justification in print 1126. The explanatory memorandum submitted with the draft law states: the draft law amending the Act on the Safety of Persons in Water Areas aims to clarify the legal provisions concerning the definition of water rescuer, currently contained in the article. Point 2 (5) of that law, by specifying how many other qualifications useful in water rescue should be held by a water rescuer, as well as introducing a statutory authorisation for the Minister of Home Affairs to issue a regulation setting out other qualifications useful in water rescue and a list of evidence of their possession. The draft clarifies that this is a useful qualification for water rescue as referred to in Article. 2 point 4 of that law, to carry out rescue activities listed in Article. 13 of this bill. The project also provides that persons performing medical professions: a doctor of the system State Medical Rescue, a nurse of the system State Medical Rescue, a paramedic, who carry out professional training, meet the requirements for having another qualification useful in water rescue. It was accepted that competence in the field of rescue medicine for persons performing medical professions would be exchanged at the level of the Act on other qualifications useful in water rescue. In addition, the explanatory memorandum states that this regulation does not affect the activities of micro-entrepreneurs, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises. Whether that is the case and whether it will be the case, we will see. According to the report of the consultation, the bill was addressed only to 12 entities, i.e. to the Supreme Chamber of Medicine, the Chief Chamber of Nurses and the Post-Camps, the Polish Association of Medical Rescuers, the National Trade Union of Medical Rescuers, the Polish Swimming Association, the Polish Motor and Water Skiing Association, the Polish Marine Union, the Polish Swinging Association, the Underwater Committee of the Polish Tourist and National Expert Society, the Mazury Voluntary Rescue Service, the WOPR of the West Pomeranian Voivodeship and Jarocki Tomasz Multigroup sp. z o.o. High Izbo! Allow me to mention the questions that concern the environment related to water rescue and were raised at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. One of the many questions is: How many rescuers will not be able to protect the safety of people by water in the current season in 2021 compared to 2020? Why are these kinds of changes so late, which is a month before the summer season? When will the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas finally be fully updated? They're waiting for this update. In conclusion, the government bill amending the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas from Print No. 1126 unfortunately does not make any comprehensive changes, so long expected by persons and entities involved in water rescue. Unfortunately, the original law of 2011 is still being revised, with better or worse results. In the safety environments of people living in water areas, due to the continuous lack of comprehensive updating, it is called the Tritic Act, and we all know exactly what time is and when you use triticle. Unfortunately, such changes are another attempt to powder and refresh this law. Tonight we will continue to examine the amendments at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. We will see what the amendments will be and what the results of the votes will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u338	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Biernacki will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u339	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives towards the government draft law amending the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas, print No 1126. The Government's draft law aims to clarify the legal provisions on the definition of water rescuer contained in the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas. It is a law - here the date is valid - from 18 August 2011. The proposed regulation clarifies the requirements for the water lifeguard by indicating that the water lifeguard has at least one qualification. This is the fundamental change: one qualification. Please pay attention, we are debating such a change. In addition, and this is also important, a statutory authorisation for the Minister of Home Affairs to issue implementing rules specifying other qualifications useful in water rescue and a list of supporting documents shall be proposed in the government submission. Why did I say that the date is very important, that it is 18 August 2011? How many years has it been since the bill was passed? As a somewhat experienced Member, I would like to say that this was a very interesting project, as it was a committee project that adopted the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in a consensus of political forces that were in committee at the time, and what is very important, together with a project on mountain rescue. The ministers agreed, but there was an obstruction by the officials of the Ministry of the Interior at that time, so the project was created in great pains. 11 years have passed, and it should be done at least several times to review this law, review its records, what needs to be improved, so that this law is effective to serve water rescuers, but it should also serve Poles, because rescuers - they start soon the season - serve Poles, save their lives. This review would also have to apply to the implementing rules, because, as the rescuers say, the implementing rules have changed the purpose of the law very much. This law was written not only by Members, but together with the aquatic environment, the WOPR-ites. And what is still important, when this law was written, was one great WOPR and was one or two, several smaller WOPR organizations. Now it's... It's hard to talk about decentralisation. This is a completely different world, these WOPR organizations are very much. This law must, by its very nature, be subject to comprehensive changes, in order to adapt it to the existing conditions. That's not there. Next - the control system, which is indicated by the WOPRs themselves, professionals who want the WOPR units to work well, effectively, so that the professionals themselves are really there, people who want to work and who are prepared for it. They believe that the control system, which is in the MMA, does not quite work for them, that this control should be transferred further to the voivodships. I obtained this information when I asked in the environment for a very important change, a major change, the expected change and this amendment. One. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u340	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Krzysztof Tuduja to present the position of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment concerns the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas. Of course, first of all, great respect and thanks to all rescuers who rescue and rescue Poles over water, and care for their sense of security in using these beautiful places. This project clarifies the definition of a water rescuer by indicating that, in addition to the knowledge and skills of water rescue and swimming techniques, it has at least one additional qualification useful in water rescue. Previously, there was no indication of how many additional qualifications were needed. We find out what these additional useful qualifications are supposed to be. These are rights such as the right to drive ships and water vehicles, medical qualifications, dive skills, radiocommunications, privileged vehicles, coaching and instructor privileges in swimming. In the Annex to the Regulation, a list of documents recognised as confirmation of those qualifications is published. The draft organises, clarifies the current regulations in this matter and as such does not cause controversy. However, there are two questions on this occasion: Does this exclude the possibility of providing rescue services for young, specific, athletic and willing people who are on the verge of a career and have not yet grown into such additional rights? The second question, such a more general reflection, about the proportion of researching real lifesaving skills in relation to various certificates and documents actually having, in fact, this fact to confirm, to confirm: Doesn't there appear here a regular mentality arising in Poland to shed responsibility from decision-makers, in this case employing rescuers? Poland should be a country of training responsibility, taking responsibility, not looking for an opportunity to get rid of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u342	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Zimoch to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The drafters of the law considered that the law on the definition of water rescuer should be clarified. It has been decided to determine the qualifications of the lifeguard. The bill's only two articles. One is to say that a water rescuer can be a person who has knowledge and skills in the field of water rescue and swimming techniques. Probably easier and easier to write: the lifeguard must be able to swim. In a dozen pages of complicated justification for two articles, some sentences are pearls, e.g. such: the regulation will specify the requirements for the water rescuer by indicating that the water rescuer has at least one qualification useful in water rescue. It is good that the attached draft regulation of the Minister for the Interior defines these qualifications useful to water rescuers. It has already been mentioned here about the management of vessels in inland waters, maritime rights, diving skills, the use of transmission and reception equipment or the management of a privileged vehicle. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will support the project because it supports rescuers, rescuers concentrated in over 100 types of different units across the country. We show great respect for the work of rescuers. Our whole movement supports this project because it's about ensuring the safety of all of us. But, Minister, this rescue project is called cosmetics. Financing needs to be changed. Since 2012, after all, you know this, the amount that the Ministry of Home Affairs is spending on water rescue has not changed. Didn't you, Minister, upset that a few days ago, the Mazury volunteer paramedics made a dramatic appeal on social media? For 22 years we've been saving you, now you Save us - that's what the mazuran rescuers call us. And they add: because of the difficult financial situation, for the first time, we ask for support. In this particular case there is a shortage of money for 20 rescuers who day and night ensure safety throughout the year on the trail of great lakes. Water rescue, High Seym, is underinvested. This is the biggest problem that's worth solving, but not just cosmetic regulations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u344	Thank you very much, sir. We're going to ask questions. The first question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing amending the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas. The change is quite cosmetic, because it concerns the definition of a rescuer's qualifications, although not even that, because the law transfers this competence to the minister. And it is with great regret and sadness that this law does not address other issues, much more important and important, related to water rescue. The issue of funding has not been raised, the issue of rescue workers' earnings has not been raised. After all, the lifeguard who has to spend almost 1.5,000. For a course, he finds out that he can make 2,000. In the season. When he gets twice as much in gastronomy, he usually chooses the other one. We are not talking about the issue of hardware support, we are not talking about the legal position of a lifeguard on guarded beaches and finally we are not clarifying the places where [[♪ The bell ♪]] Such guarded beaches should be mandatory. If it weren't for the local government, many units of the Water Rescue Service would be closed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u346	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Jan Szopiński a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u347	Dear Minister, High Izbo! Dear Marshal, Water rescuers associated with the Water Rescue Service units throughout Poland actively joined the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, supporting local government units and medical personnel in preventive and rescue operations. Therefore, I have questions: Is the government preparing possible legal changes allowing the formal inclusion of water rescuers in medical and preventive actions undertaken by state authorities in an epidemic state? Will they be provided with equipment and insurance and material support for such activities by water rescuers? And last question, which is a common question from water rescuers: Will the state budget for water rescue in our country increase? If the Minister had answered me in writing, especially the last question (the bell), I would have been very obliged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u348	Thank you, sir. The question will be asked by Mr Artur Łącki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! With this bill we talk about the so-called. a human factor. We're talking about this and you're putting new responsibilities on the rescue team. Of course, they should be fit, they should have different powers, so to speak, which will allow them to be even more useful on these beaches, even more concerned about the health and life of the inhabitants and tourists. But there is also a material factor, Minister, as in the case of the national emergency and fire system. Are you predicting the creation of a fund that could be used by the municipalities that employ these rescuers? Please note that this year, for example. the municipality of Dziwnów, the municipality of Rewal, the municipality of Trzebiatów will spend about 500,000. PLN to secure the season - one such municipality. For this, we still need to buy equipment that gets more expensive. It can't be that the lifeguard will swim 2 km on oars to man, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who needs help. I'd like a written reply. Do you want to create a fund from which municipalities could draw on the purchase of modern rescue equipment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u350	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Marek Rutka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, it is worth debating the qualifications useful in water rescue, but it is also worth looking at the situation in the Maritime Search and Rescue Service, SAR, because marine rescuers also operate in internal waters such as the Vistula Bay or in bays: Pucka Bay, Gdansk Bay. Due to the grossly low wages experienced rescuers are leaving work, which in the near future could lead to organisational paralysis and security disruption for people resting and working at sea. Therefore, the question is: Is there a systemic solution to pay problems both in maritime rescue and in inland rescue?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u352	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Tomasz Szymanski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Over 10,000. Polish rescuers serving every day in the summer season on Polish beaches, by the sea, by the lakes, were at the end of the bill, of which they are of course happy. However, their joy is not full because, as you know, the law has not been consulted with many entities that are representative of water-based water rescue, and what hurts the most has not been raised to any extent. It is about the aspect that is reflected today in the speech from the Seymary, the financial aspect. It hurts them the most. They serve us, care for our lives, health and safety, but we find out - this example was given today in the speech from the Seym's Speaker - that Mazury Voluntary Emergency Service has no money for anything, that rescuers report to those in need that they have nothing to do with them, that they are throwing them a lifeline, which is over 25 years old, four times painted with paint, so that they actually [[♪ The bell ♪]] used to help in any way. They don't expect money in their pockets. They serve Poles, but they want something to save us with. They want to be able to use their knowledge and skills to help us by water with good equipment. That is what I call for, ladies and gentlemen. Equip them with the right tools to save the health and life of Poles. They will repay us with their knowledge and their skills. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u354	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Mateusz Bochenek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u355	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I'd like to ask you to answer a few questions. I would ask you to answer the first question in writing. How has the level of aid granted to water rescue changed over the last 5 years? I would ask you to give these numbers by grants in different voivodships. The next question concerns ongoing work on amending the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas. Is this the kind of work that's going on? If so, to what extent and when will we learn any conclusions? When will the relevant draft amendment be sent to Parliament? The next question is whether the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration is affected by information that individual entities [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're having trouble completing water rescue personnel for the upcoming season. One last question. How do you intend to encourage rescuers to remain on duty and young people to join it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u356	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Krutul. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u357	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. Why are we taking care of this case so late? After all, in 2 weeks the water season begins and rescuers should already be on the beaches and reservoirs to protect Poles and Poles. Minister! When will the water rescuers receive a salary increase? That is a fundamental question. Their current salaries are at a level which is insulting to any standards that apply in our country. It should be remembered that they are responsible for the life of Poles and Poles when it comes to tanks that protect. The next question concerns the personal condition of the rescuers. Please compare in writing the years 2019 and 2020 and present the projections for 2021. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rescuers warmly for their service. Thank you for protecting the health and life of our children and us too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u358	Thank you. We join these thanks. The question will now be asked by Mr Zdzisław Wolski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I was young, I was a water rescuer, then for many years I was a paramedic. I was driving to the drowned, waiting for the paramedics to pull out the body to determine the death. The subject is very close to me. It's a good thing the Home Secretary did anything. I have a question for the Minister. When will these matters be fully settled? There's a lot of them. It's about financial, hardware, qualifications. Introducing this in this period may do more harm than good, but it is generally going the right way. Today, however, we have such a situation that some rescuers will not be able to work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're filling the gaps with rescuers from across the eastern border, but there are barriers, for example language. This process could get worse.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u360	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Grabczuk for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll start by thanking you. I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the paramedics. Thank you for your daily service, for your great hard work. As far as water rescue is concerned, we have de facto three problems. The first problem is, unfortunately, a small number of rescuers. The second problem is the lack of equipment or very old equipment. Third, little money. We need to realise that every year in Poland a few hundred people lose their lives by drowning. Today, when we were locked up at home in the days of Cortipinus... Poles travel over different waters at any time. That is why the safety of all those resting on water should be a priority. This cannot be done if there are (the bell) secured adequate financial resources. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u362	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The activities of water rescuers and their good preparation are a very important element of public safety, the fight for health and life of those who rest on the waters. Now, in the summer, it's going to get worse. It follows from the justification that at the moment it is 10,5 thousand. persons. I would like to ask if, after the amendment of the law, which provides for a change in the definition of a water rescuer, more people will be able to perform this function. There was talk of underfinancing the purchase of equipment. These include, in particular, non-governmental actors dealing with this area. Why don't you make contact with Minister Ziobra? Yesterday, I saw 1,200 grand. zł from the Justice Fund [[♪ The bell ♪]] distributed in check to volunteer firefighters in Rzeszow. It's very important. Maybe you can also use those checks for WOPR? Thank you. [[Applause]] There's no election there.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u364	Thank you very much, sir. The list of people asking questions is closed by Mr Dobromir Sosnierz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u365	I have a question. Why are you fixing something that's not broken? Somehow I don't want to believe that you guys just decided one day unselfishly to mess things up. Question: "What are you up to?" I mean, raising requirements... A lot of the speakers said we were short on lifeguards. Raising requirements will make them even less. It's, I hope, sure. How does being able to drive help to get someone out of the water? How is she not gonna get in the way? What are you guys up to? What kind of business do you represent? What kind of geszoft is getting ready here?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u366	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Wąsik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, will answer the questions raised earlier. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for all the statements dictated, I understand, by concern for the state of water rescue in Poland. I never expected to defend the bill written by Marek Biernacki against Mark Biernacki. That's what's happening. I think the Water Rescue Act that works is a good bill. Mr Biernacki, speaking of a comprehensive amendment, did not really point out the concrete errors he made 10 years ago by writing this bill or the things that have become obsolete. I would like to stress one thing here - it is to many of your Members and also to Mr Soszer, who has been saying recently - this law is the result of requests or demands from the environment, or the environment of water rescuers. That's lobbying. To make more... It's a small, small bill... It does not increase competence or raise the bar, but it specifies what other skills can or should have water rescuers. Why? What's the point, then? Looking across... There are doubts and disputes. In order to ensure that these doubts and disputes are not and... Mr President, you have had time to ask the question, and now please listen calmly to the answers given. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: I understand your concern about the state of water rescue funding. In fact, a few days ago, the media informed what your fellow Members were talking about, not the best situation in the Mazury Voluntary Emergency Service. We need to realize what's causing this. Of course, above all, the COVID situation, because the sponsors are definitely gone, certainly the proceeds from commercial activities these associations did not have the ones they usually had before and we understand it. The governor responded immediately, announced a contest for 400,000. zł. This competition is already announced in my best knowledge, because, as you all know, water rescue funding according to the Act is the job of the voivode and the voivode responded immediately. 400,000. zł more will be dedicated this year to water rescue in Warmia and Mazury, so that this is good information, with which I immediately rush. Another information should be told to you that there is a fund that finances water rescue, among other things. Water rescue, because this is the National Fund for Environmental Protection, which only this year allocated 5 million PLN for competitions concerning equipment, equipment of rescue units. Which voivodship? All voivodships. So that's a lot of money for water rescue tasks... Of course, you can imagine more. On the other hand, I would like to reassure you that we will present in writing a detailed calculation of how water rescue has been financed over the years and whether this amount has not really changed for a long time. Very good. We will present this in writing as requested by your Members. I would like to thank the committee in general for this work, and I would like to thank you for all your comments. I listened to them and took notes, and I hope that our joint work will result in the fact that rescuers from 1 October, at the request of the Association of Polish Cities, will have better laws that will allow them to pursue their profession. I would just like to stress that there is no doubt that the law has been consulted publicly, that any of the parties could have taken the floor on this matter and that many have taken it away. A positive opinion on the bill was taken by the Council for Rescue Affairs. It is an opinion-making body operating at the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Thank you very much. If I have not answered a question, I will certainly answer it in writing, as you have asked. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u368	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur, Mr Mieczysław Baszko, will now speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As rapporteur for the committee, I would like to thank all the clubs and the wheels for their substantive discussion for taking the comments you have made. You can see that we all care about the safety of the waters and not just there, because rescuers are involved in various actions. But I would also like to stress that, however, as far as this bill is concerned, its aim is also to improve the qualifications of staff to be more excellent, highly trained. Thanks to the fact that the lifeguard must acquire additional privileges, everyone using the reservoirs or staying near the reservoirs feels more secure if he sees a highly specialised rescue staff. I would like to thank the government side, Minister Maciej Wąsik, his entire team, the director, who, at the committee meeting, explained very rationally the situations that are... Some of the understatements have been explained. It is certainly a law in the aquatic environment very much needed and expected. Because I see very experienced sportsmen here, which I also belong to... I had a great deal of access by the reservoirs... Cooperation with the water rescue has always been very good. When securing very big events such as Endurance in Augustów or the Polish water skiing championship... Which I've been chair for eight years on the national committee... From this point on, I would like to thank all rescuers and activists who train rescuers for their participation and work, for taking care of our safety on the waters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u370	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government bill amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family (prints 1015 and 1148). I ask Mrs Beata Arrow to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u371	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government bill amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family, print no. 1015. The Sejm shall meet on 15 April 2021 in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. The Commission, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 12 May 2021, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u372	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Warwas, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u373	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family, contained in print No 1015 and in print No 1148. High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice, pursuing a policy of responsible development, is both undertaking a series of measures for a strong economy, as well as seeking a complementary and long-term family-friendly policy. We are introducing expected changes to reduce bureaucracy and make it easier for citizens and their offices to benefit from family benefits and maintenance funds. Key changes are therefore to be made to those who pay maintenance, maintenance debtors and all who take benefits from the maintenance fund. In 2023, there is to be a first valorisation of the income criterion entitled to benefit from the maintenance fund. An increase in the minimum wage for work results in a loss of entitlement to benefits for single parents and therefore the amount of the income criterion would be increased every 3 years by a valorisation rate. In addition, the National Debt Register will disclose both debtors for whom the execution of maintenance benefits is pending, as well as debtors for whom the execution of claims from the State budget is being carried out. A child's maintenance allowance not paid for at least 3 months or the ongoing execution of payments from the State budget will be sufficient to ensure that the person who refuses to pay is entered in the National Debt Register. He'll be in it as long as he pays his full debt. Amount of debts owed by maintenance debtors to the Treasury Countries grow by about PLN 1.5 billion each year. These debts are still subject to enforcement and should therefore remain in the Registers of Economic Information Offices until they are fully repaid so that knowledge of them is widely available as a sanction against debtors for failing to repay those debts. The contested law also provides for substantial changes to the Labour Code for employers who employ or pay them higher wages than the employment contracts do, without deductions on maintenance benefits. Currently, the employer learns that he employs a maintenance debtor, either from the debtor himself or from the bailiff's writings. After the amendment, the employer will be able to check the National Debt Register to see if he is dealing with a debtor. In conclusion, the contested bill relating to benefits to the family largely concerns the expected changes to the maintenance fund, which are intended to better secure families with children entitled to benefits from the fund, and introduces very severe sanctions for defaulting on maintenance benefits. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of a government draft law amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u374	Thank you very much. Now you have the voice of Iwona Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club a position towards the government draft law amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family, print no. 1015. During my last speech on the bill under review, I stressed that the Civic Coalition Club will amend this document so that the law addressed to families is indeed a law meeting the needs of Poles and Poles. Thus, during the work of the committee, amendments were tabled relating to the maintenance fund. First of all, we proposed a complete abolition of the income criterion entitled to benefits from the maintenance fund, i.e. the elimination of the income threshold. Aliments should be paid for the child regardless of income. Where one parent does not pay alimony and the State does not have the tools by which the child can be effectively recovered, there is no reason for the child not to be paid out of the maintenance fund for the benefit of the child. The project will disappoint parents who are helpless to expect alimony for their children from parents who avoid paying the child support. Unfortunately, in most cases mothers are the waiting party. As a result of the amendments introduced by this law, women hoped to withdraw from the income mechanism, which deprives a large proportion of the beneficiaries of the maintenance fund by judgment of the court of alimony. Women were hoping to introduce a solution to the law concerning the so-called. a gold-for-money system, which is now used to determine the right to family benefits. Already such a solution would allow the granting of benefits to families whose income slightly exceeds the criterion, but in the reduced amount. Why is it not possible to accept such an option that is consistent with the principles of social justice that you are so eager to invoke? I hope that the Ministry will address this issue and give a clear answer above all to Poles who expect support in their difficult situation. After all, the benefits from the maintenance fund are recoverable and the State authorities have mechanisms to discipline the maintenance debtor. In this situation, I take the view that limiting the availability of maintenance fund benefits by maintaining a rigid income criterion is an admission to state failure and weakness in the protection of its regressive claims. The bill in this form undermines the hope of many mothers who alone bear the cost of their children's living to improve their situation, in which one parent fails to fulfil his obligation to keep the child. During his work at the committee, the Civic Coalition Club tabled two further amendments. One concerns the valorisation of the amount of the income criterion entitled to benefit from the maintenance fund each year and not every 3 years as adopted in the draft law. This amendment is accompanied by another amendment concerning the first valorisation of the amount of the income criterion in 2022 and not, as foreseen in the draft, in 2023. I regret that the amendments tabled by the opposition were rejected by the United Right during the work of the committee. You speak of a total opposition, but in your cunning towards others and excluding the views of others other than your own just, you can't even see the harm of the weaker and lean over the improvement of their fate. And all this is about the welfare of the child. The project in this part doesn't change anything, it just preserves the condition of avoiding the payment of alimony. The legal solutions of countries which have put in place other than criminal mechanisms to mobilise a parent who has abandoned maintenance obligations have not been used or are aiming at creating conditions for such obligations. According to this government's philosophy of panacea for everything is to be criminal law, but does it make sense to put a non-payment of alimony in a penitentiary so that he doesn't pay any more of these alimony payments? Why is it not possible to benefit from the electronic supervision penalty in this respect? It seems that such an individual and social punishment, but at the same time creating opportunities for earning, would be more appropriate to the sense of the regulation which forces the payment of alimony. These aspects require that the draft be assessed in the part concerning the amendment of the Law on Aid to Persons with Child Support as defective, underdeveloped and unsolved for women without alimony, either temporarily or in the long term, by limiting the phenomenon of non-alimentation. The Civic Coalition Club will vote in favour of this project with the hope that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy will accept the proposed changes and the High Sejm will accept them by voting in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u376	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u377	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! What are the kids for? All those children that are ours and that we love so much that we see the pink baby in the blastocyst. What are these kids for? To love them madly, to care for them most, to take care of their future, to provide the best possible education? Does the Polish state support children? No, it's not. This noisy support for families is not necessarily support for children. I remind you that 500+ is not for the child, but for his parent, and if parents are at war with each other about the child, then the child of this money or what would have been provided with this money will not see. I remind you that a child is a thing that can be passed on without any consideration of his feelings. The day before yesterday, a father in the company of the police brought out of the Jelenia Góra elementary school crying and breaking out Carolina in front of other children and helpless teachers. Because a father has a right to a child, a child has no right to love and care. Let me remind you that you register when a parent abandons a child and when it goes into foster care, and for the second time, when it comes out of this care. You register when your child is seriously ill and your despaired parents collect millions for treatment abroad. You're registered when a child gets hurt. And I mean not just pedophilia, but daily beating or neglect. Prime Minister Beata Szydło could praise the local government of Zakopane, who - no, because no - did not create a compulsory, theoretically, program to protect the family from violence. The number of such self-governments is increasing. And you register when a parent recognizes that he has given life to a child and that he no longer has to lay down on the child's life. The government's project noisyly referred to as the valorisation of support for unattended children is de facto the creation of further influences not in the pockets of unattended children, but in the cash register of the state. And although in the explanatory memorandum the government points to valorisation, the clou of this law constitutes the imposition of fines on employers who employ the so-called employers in black. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, The state can't handle alimony enforcement. The maintenance debt is almost 12.5 billion. The execution of the bailiff is still difficult. Over a quarter of a million obliged don't pay alimony. A million kids don't get alimony. There is no automatic guarantee of alimony, maintenance sentences are filed after six months, and the government says: we will ensure that the state's budget is paid with fines from employers. Because the baby is there to make a profit from his injury. Because the budget doesn't go up, and no money stinks of the politicians responsible for the budget. What about valorization? I don't know how many people in this room realize that within 14 years the threshold has risen by 175 PLN. The income criterion has increased from PLN 725 to PLN 900 for 14 years. Since 2008, the maximum amount paid from the maintenance fund is PLN 500. So when's the valorization? Well, back in 2023, that's for the election. You want to valorize the election vote? An alimentary election sausage? Why should valorization be every three years? Is this such a difficult process? Are all ministerial computers going to calculate the amount of valorization? Fines for entrepreneurs from tomorrow, but the value of child support payments - before the election. I recommend using the project of the Left submitted to the Marshal's staff on immediate maintenance. Firstly, this project actually gives money to the entitled, and secondly, we show how to update the amount of alimony every year using a simple algorithm. The bill was not still under discussion, but Minister Ziobro is going through something at conferences, which allows us to hope that the Ministry of Justice is working intensively to copy the project of the Left and present it as its own. Do it, but stop being so hypocritical. We make amendments and appeal: take care of the children's harm, they are more important than the budget revenue. Valorize right away, right away, like fines, and every year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u378	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u379	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the draft law amending certain laws related to benefits to the family from print no. 1015. First of all, I would like to point out that in the programme of the Polish Coalition, the Polish People's Party, pro-family policy takes a very important place. Many of the solutions that are continued by the government today were introduced just when the Minister of Labour and Social Policy was Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, such as mowers, nursery programs and numerous senior programs. The Polish People's Party Club also voted in favour of the 500+ programme. Pro-family policy is treated by us as the best investment - an investment in a family that is the foundation of a strong state. It is important that Polish families live better and prosperous. This project and proposed solutions are intended to serve the Polish family. But they're not perfect. They do not contain solutions that could help the Polish family. These provisions are also intended to reduce bureaucracy to a large extent by introducing a number of facilitations for both citizens and officials. Thus, the project assumes solutions directly addressed to families and solutions that will contribute to the smoother handling of official matters. The essence of the solutions included in the project is the introduction of a permanent mechanism to increase the amount of the income criterion for maintenance fund benefits - this amount every 3 years will be increased by the rate of valorisation, the extension of the non-tax income catalogue consisting of family income entitlement to family benefits and maintenance fund benefits, the introduction of regulations that will clearly indicate that there is no removal from the Offices of economic information about the debts of maintenance debtors vis-à-vis the Treasury arising from the benefits incurred in the event of inefficiencies in the execution of maintenance payments until those debts are repaid to the Treasury. The Act clarifies that the liability of the employer in the event of the uncontractual employment of the maintenance debtor or payment of remuneration under the table results in an increased amount of the fine. This is limited to employees disclosed in the National Debt Register. It is also important to introduce a regulation stating that both debtors who are subject to the execution of maintenance and debtors who are subject to the execution of claims to the State budget will be disclosed in the National Debt Register. However, this law does not solve the problems of families, problems of children and does not help in the collection of child support. However, the Act provides for a number of ICT solutions to improve the handling of cases by citizens, but also to facilitate the work of officials. Therefore, on behalf of the coalition club of Poland, the Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, I recommend the High House to adopt this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u380	Thank you very much. Now Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u381	First, a general remark. The PiS consistently puts its target groups at the expense of the others. The problem is that it's mostly, in any case, in a large part, an electorate who wants to live at someone else's expense, which draws out their hands after someone else's money. This group is constantly growing, and the group of those who contribute more to the budget than they draw from it is constantly shrinking. This, of course, can provide a good result in the election, because since the beneficiaries of the net budget are more than the ones robbed, we are leading to a situation where two wolves and sheep vote, which is what they will eat for dinner today, but such a system must collapse in the long run. Our economy is like a rickshaw that wants to drag fewer and fewer people, and more and more wants to be passengers. So the passengers vote they want the rickshaw to go faster, faster. So what? They have most, so they're able to vote there. So the fewer people want to pull it, the more people want to sit in a passenger position, and in this way passengers who are being seduced by populists from a pious and godless united Left simply end up enduring those poor people in the front. So the PiS here, in this bill, with some tiny steps, but as always, it favors the skies of people who take benefits, pensions or pensions. In general, it is about this law that those who take money from the state should take it as conveniently as possible. Meanwhile, more and more obligations and taxes are being imposed on entrepreneurs in other laws. The second thing that's important is to push the screws on maintenance debtors. Of course, if someone does not want to keep their own child, it is a disgrace, and such a man should be drawn out of his throat. But unfortunately, in the same sack there are victims of system, disgusting and sexist politics of Polish family courts: fathers who are denied the right to raise their own children personally, entrusting them almost always to mothers, and then they are ordered to pay often taken from the ceiling of child support, sometimes exceeding even their financial possibilities, because the possibility of earning is arbitraryly determined by the court. So I ask you again from this place: Where is the maintenance table promised long ago? Where are the rules introducing alternate care as a default solution? Where is the reform of the security rules that, as it stands, make maintenance even before the case is settled and, in principle, set the whole process at the outset? If the supposedly right-wing government can't do this for six years, what are we supposed to count on, a sexist-feminist left? What are you afraid of? We are dealing here in many cases really with the exploitation industry. Fathers are treated like walking ATMs. Mrs Kucharska also said de facto a contrario that the father has no right to a child if she takes them from kindergarten because the mother taught them, isolated them, this child... I do not know this example, but such cases often occur, that a mother isolates a child for years, so the child cries later, as he sees the father, but it has to stop at last. The baby also cries when he goes to kindergarten and somehow we don't care. If we're proposing a prison for not paying alimony, then I understand that the next bill is that there's going to be a prison for parental alienation, for persistent evasion for years from the father's ability to connect with the child. It's... it's written in this bill. It's not surprising that in such a case... Of course, in general, there are also people sitting in this sack who simply do not want to pay for their children, but at least some of these people, certainly unmissable, certainly a significant proportion of these people are people harmed, punished by our justice system, people who have been deprived of the right to raise their children, have been convicted of extreme alimony and are ordered to pay. Although the law - Civil Code allows us to recognize personal efforts regarding the upbringing of a child, his personal upbringing, his personal laying, for the convenience of the court is simply a cash benefit to the mother who hurts that father repeatedly. Of course, those who are due should be tightened with a screw, but at the same time something must finally be done with this exploitation industry, in which fathers are simply wiped out like a rag floor in courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u382	Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me a moment's rest after my previous speaker and his statements. I have to say, I really can't get over it all the time. I am pleased to present the position of our Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the governmental bill amending certain laws related to the provision of services to the family. I'd like to start by quoting one article from our constitution, art. 71: The state in its social and economic policy takes into account the well-being of the family. Families in difficult material and social situations, especially large children and underprivileged ones, have the right to special assistance from public authorities. I will repeat this second sentence, part of the second sentence: especially large children and underprivileged ones have the right to special assistance from public authorities. What's it like? It is the case that 1 million children in Poland do not receive alimony, 1 million children. This is 1 million families, those families that don't like the rulers today. The families Mrs Mazurek said would encourage women to try to stabilise their family situation and have more children. They are the same families as any other family, and they have the right in Poland to enjoy what the constitution gives them, just like any other family. I will repeat once again: especially the many children and the underprivileged are entitled to special assistance from the public authorities. As far as this law is concerned, these are, of course, changes in the right direction, because it was necessary to fill a few gaps in Polish almost. Finally, employers receive a signal that they cannot be hired left-handers, that they cannot be paid a salary under the table. But we will not achieve the results, ladies and gentlemen, we will not achieve the results of this law, because in Poland there is still permission to not pay alimony and it seems to me that my previous speaker has formulated some of this consent here. This is a permit that has been in force throughout Poland for years in our society and without good social action, without good communication we will not be able to deal with this problem, so besides the change in the law, it is still necessary to act to change attitudes. We can't solve everything with criminal law. It's really not like putting all the allies or their employers in jail is gonna solve any problem. Moreover, if we focus on this, we will create and increase more problems than we will solve. These changes are going in the right direction, I will repeat again, but in 2017, the changes made by Minister Ziobro were also going in the right direction. So what? I'm talking about the revision of the article right now. 209 Penal Code. It was intended to increase the possibility of penalising maintenance debtors. In practice, it just doesn't work because the prosecutors are cutting these cases down. All they have to do is suspend on this formulation of the current maintenance. And all it takes is a maintenance debtor to pay 50 zlotys. The case is already cancelled. It just doesn't work. The question is, how are these laws going to be enforced? I'm afraid it won't be easy. Somehow I don't see the determination of the rulers. And finally, it's about valorization. Okay, great that valorization was included in the bill. But why in 2023? I don't get it. Why valorisation every 3 years with current inflation above 4% in Poland? More data came out today. We are second in Europe after Hungary in terms of inflation. And with inflation like this, we're supposed to value every three years? It's completely incomprehensible. Finally, these questions which my previous speakers have already asked, i.e. questions about immediate maintenance and maintenance tables. Finally, the questions raised by the Ombudsman in his report on the possibility of using COVID funds. There's a lot of people who lost their jobs. It's about those who raise children alone or those who have to pay alimony. There are other issues in the Ombudsman's report. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, there is no response from the ministries to the Ombudsman's demands on this matter. Of course, we will vote in favour of this bill, but we believe that we have a lot to do on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u384	Thank you. Members joined the questions. We're about to have a list of them. The first Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. One minute. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u385	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing the amendment of some laws related to witnessing to the family. It is a matter of extremely difficult, extremely sensitive, very often concerning a particular case. Sometimes it is difficult to treat all cases with one line or one rule. Surely alimony is a benefit to the child, not a legal guardian, most often the mother of the child. Therefore, this request made by our colleague regarding the abolition of this income criterion seems to be most appropriate. I would also like to draw attention to the concept of benefits for the so-called. mothers or fathers raising children alone. Today, there are very often abuses in this situation. Very often, and after all, social assistance centres know about it, de facto these children are raised in full families, although not formalized. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, sir. And it seems that the alignment of the family position is most appropriate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u386	Thank you, sir. Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the issue of a solution excluding the application of reminders in matters of the provision of education on unemployment benefits in the framework of the coordination of social security systems, as well as on matters relating to the issue of work permits, seasonal work permits and the entry of benefits on the assignment of work to a foreigner in the register. It is controversial to deny citizens the opportunity to plead their own cases, to take an interest in the course and to deal with them in advance, as it will make it impossible for the person seeking financial assistance to exercise the right to press charges when he is dissatisfied with the speed of the examination of the application. Indeed, we read in the explanatory memorandum that this will not affect the right of the citizen, as he will still be able to bring an action against the long-term conduct of proceedings before the administrative court. But is there no concern that the number of actions will increase in court and, as a result, the courts will not be able to deal with these cases within a certain period of time, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now that the average length of court proceedings has increased from more than four months to seven months? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u388	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u389	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A million children do not receive money from a parent, a father for a life. The baby needs to be fed, a roof over his head. There are scientific issues, books, schools, clothes. Children do not receive this money and are worse than children whose parents care about it, pay alimony or have full families. Hence my question: Why not lift the income threshold granting money from the maintenance fund? Why is there still no immediate maintenance, maintenance tables? Why isn't there a social campaign to make the whole community aware that alimony simply has to be paid, that it is intended for a child who has equal opportunities for his peers? Why, if there is no abolition of the income threshold, is it to be every 3 years and not every year to value the amount of the income criterion that entitles to benefits from the fund? And why wasn't it until 2023? I mean, these kids can't wait. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u390	Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Act on the abolition of certain laws relating to maintenance, print No 1015. Ladies and gentlemen! Investment in family, investment in motherhood, investment in children is a priority of every government, and the password of family is the password of the current government. Very good. In reality, however, the number of maintenance benefits in our country is increasing. A million kids don't get paid to live, that's alimony. The Act does not solve problems, families or children, because it does not contain the abolition of the income criterion, and the valorization is to take place every 3 years and only since 2023. I ask: Why is this happening? That is why the Civic Coalition has tabled many amendments to the bill - for the sake of children, for the sake of families. I hope it's an overarching value. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is good and these amendments will be taken into account over the divisions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u392	Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u393	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The project is extremely important. It does not go further, of course, our proposals have not been taken into account, at least at this stage. The problem resulting from the fact that nearly one million children are deprived of alimony is the problem of the Polish state. Well, the maintenance fund is, first of all, insufficient. It should fully safeguard, even without an income criterion, this loss in the income of a child if one parent fails to comply with that obligation. Of course, the separate thing is how the state enforces outstanding alimony, but it cannot be that the fund that is supposed to serve the child is simply insufficient, it is simply too small. That is why we will call for the abolition of the income criterion, for a better efficiency of the state, so that child support can go directly, smoothly to the needy and ensure that the cost of the child's living is covered and that this system serves [[♪ The bell ♪]] actually the child's well-being and was effective in the implementation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u394	Mr Piotr Boris, Coalition... Oh, excuse me, sir. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I fully identify with the deep concern for the children we show, but let me remind you that in the article. 87 family code is a record of mutual respect and support for parents and children. Now I want to refer to the provisions of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 Social assistance laws, which are very vague and in many cases make it impossible even to establish the wealth of adult children, make it impossible for social workers to define the possibility of providing caring services or specialised care services. It is not even possible to conduct maintenance interview in the absence of cooperation from families, and sometimes it concerns wealthy children, adult children who are (the bell), to say the least, selfish towards their own parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u396	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This bill goes in the right direction, apart from the solutions mentioned here, i.e. in addition to the increase of this threshold only in the year known only to the government team and beyond the period in which the valorization will take place, although here it is similar to family benefits. However, this law also introduces solutions to speed up the examination of applications for education and family benefits by voivodships. I have to say, in my parliamentary work... At the moment there are very many families whose conclusions lie there, in the voivodships and are considered within six months, 8 months, etc. In view of the above, I would like to ask what mechanisms introduced by this law will speed up these decisions within the framework of social security (the bell) that is being conducted by the voivode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u398	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A law that should guarantee a decent life for the youngest, those who have been wronged without their guilt, who must often face the problems of their parents without awareness - such a law should be examined in the belief that we are helping them to live decently. Unfortunately, this revalorisation is only a tribute, but not a tribute to all those who are given much less money. I ask the Minister: When will you take steps to ensure that children who are deprived of the possibility of receiving money from the maintenance fund to the extent that they are ordered can have this amount evenly? Because it's 500 zlotys per child. It's sometimes a drop in the sea of needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u400	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, An important element of the proposed amendments is the creation of a legal basis to improve the work of the authorities involved in granting and paying these benefits. However, the fundamental direction of the proposed changes is clear and worthy of support. But I have a question: Why didn't the government adopt an annual income valorisation mechanism in the course of further legislative work, which is taken into account in determining the amount of the maintenance fund benefit? A request from the Minister. Minister! Well, on 12 March 2021, my club addressed a draft law to the Marshal's staff on the introduction of instant maintenance services, which would be ruled in a simplified manner in the maintenance proceedings. I kindly ask the Minister to familiarize himself with this project and even (the bell) to appeal to your marshals for this bill to be processed in the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u402	Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project put forward is a step in the right direction, but - as is usually the case with government steps - not quite thought out. Why is it not clarified that the employer is responsible for the uncontractual employment of the debtor or that the debtor is paid under the table? I think everyone is aware that the so-called. Allies are a large group of employees who supply the gray area. The state turns a blind eye to such pathologies and at the same time kindly puts an eye to the avoidance of payment of alimony. The highest price is always borne by the child as a last resort.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u404	Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, why do you take away the right to press charges in social security cases? Offices don't keep up, which is why citizens can't ask. or request that the examination of applications be accelerated. Let us not forget that this is about children that are most important to us. We have the growth that we have, so that we have to take care of all things equally, on the same terms, on the same rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u406	Thank you very much. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for this bill, because this bill is a step in the right direction. 1 million children don't get alimony from their parents. I know that the opposition state is very generous, but we cannot take responsibility - because having children is also a responsibility for raising them. But let me remind you that when we took over the government, the alimony charge was 13%. Right now, it's over 50%. On the other hand, in terms of pro-family policy and income criteria which entitle benefits, it was during the PO-PSL government that it was this one ungrateful year, I do not remember, 2008 or 2009, when the criterion for entitlement to social benefits was below the criterion of existence. Therefore, Minister, I would ask you very much to quote data on what measures are [[♪ The bell ♪]] spent on Polish families under the rule of law and justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u408	Thank you. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u409	I wanted to refer to the words of Mrs Fly, but it wasn't the first time she had said what she knew and flew out of the room. But maybe he listens to us from a distance. The Member said that broken families and many children are the same families, but the state should support them in particular. So either the same, or especially, you have to decide. I would point out that if we support something, especially financially, we will have more, so if we want to have more broken families, then let's support broken families. That's bullshit. I would prefer that the state be neutral and support everyone the same, or, even better, it doesn't bother everyone the same way. I also understand that, in the opinion of Mrs Fly, but I think applicants, it is so that even if a mother does not make contacts for years, the father should still pay criminally to raise a child. Even if the mother violates her court orders, the father is not allowed to break those orders. This is a game to one goal, looking only at one side of the coin and accepting the point of view of one side of the room.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u410	Thank you. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Barbara Socha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u411	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will try briefly to address all the comments and questions that you have formulated in this discussion. Maybe I'll start with the issues of family benefits coordination. There were voices here about taking the right to complain, to press charges. The provisions that we propose in the amendment of the law mean simplifying procedures, shortening them and the possibility of filing a complaint against the inaction of the authorities immediately to the administrative court, which entails a damages sanction. This way is more effective than the reminders mentioned. We are therefore convinced that these solutions will have a positive impact on reducing the length of these proceedings and this will be a simplification for citizens. That's one thing. The second point concerns the abolition of the income thresholds for the maintenance fund and the maintenance fund in general. The first basic thing is that the responsibility to raise and maintain children lies primarily with parents, and the state should in no way remove this responsibility from parents. The second thing is... Here was a small seed of constitutional discussion on the article. 71. This article. talks about supporting families or special help for families, especially incomplete and multi-children, but those in a difficult situation. That's what the maintenance fund is for. We do not plan to abolish the income threshold because we do not want responsibility for raising children to be transferred to the state, but in critical situations, i.e. for parents with the lowest income, such support is foreseen from the maintenance fund. Now I'm going to give you a little bit of numbers. I'm not gonna say a lot of these numbers. I think we will answer all these questions in writing. But basically from the maintenance fund, 1.5 billion PLN per year is spent on alimony. This is, you can say, a clipping of what the United Right government is spending on a very intense family policy at the moment. The 500+ programme, the good start programme, which we also talked about here recently, and other programmes, also these new programmes, which were announced in the framework of the Great Reform of the Polish Łódź, are further instruments that encourage the conditions of life of Polish families to improve significantly. I will answer - I have one more minute - for specific questions concerning the mechanisms in the maintenance fund. Mrs Kozłowska asked about the mechanism of the zloty for the zloty. I inform you that this mechanism has been in place and has been in operation since October last year. The valorization of the maintenance fund is a new mechanism, he hasn't been there so far. For many, many years, the income threshold was not valued at all. We have introduced such advantages twice, and now we are introducing a permanent mechanism of valorization, so I think the situation is improving significantly here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u412	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. For the third reading... Sorry, there's been an amendment. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on a draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws (prints No. 1145, 1145-A and 1169). I ask Elizabeth Duda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u413	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, prints No. 1145, 1145-A and 1169. The epidemic, which took the form of a world pandemic, has paralyzed many areas of life. That is why there is an urgent need for changes in the laws as well. The proposed amendments regulate the necessary provisions to the following extent: the extension of the voucher deadline for the implementation of the tourist event; the delay in repayment to the Tourist Return Fund; solutions for tenants engaged in commercial galleries with a sales area of more than 2 000. m Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 7 May 2021 the above draft law and on 17 May 2021 the self-correction to this draft to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 17 May 2021, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u414	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u415	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In the wake of the outbreak of the world pandemic of Coronavirus, the Government of Law and Justice has rapidly prepared urgent solutions to support Polish entrepreneurs, employers and workers, in a particularly difficult situation in which they have never met before. Further editions of the anti-crisis shield, financial shields of the Polish Development Fund, industry shield, aid from the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the Agency for Industrial Development are packages of solutions to protect the Polish state and citizens from the crisis caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus. The aim of the support instruments was and is to minimise the negative effects of the pandemic and to return to economic normality as soon as possible. The introduced shields stabilise the Polish economy and give it an investment boost, and the aid instruments are constantly adapted to the needs of the environments that are most affected by the pandemic. The effectiveness of the actions is confirmed by data which show that more than PLN 214 billion went to Polish companies. 7400 thousand were supported. jobs. Only PLN 42 billion was paid to entrepreneurs in 2021 and according to Eurostat data for March this year. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Poland throughout the European Union - 3.1%. Due to the third wave of pandemic that we have faced, we will continue to support Polish companies and protect jobs. The government will allocate over PLN 32 billion for this purpose by the end of the second quarter of this year. By means of dialogue and in response to the needs of the next pandemic environments, the government has prepared an amendment to the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws contained in print Nos 1145 and 1145-A. The Act introduces several areas of change governing new rules concerning inter alia. the following issues: extension of the period for the use of the voucher for the implementation of the tourist event, extension of the deadline for the return of payments for tourism to the Tourist Return Fund. The World Pandemic prevented a large number of travellers from implementing accepted vouchers, and therefore it is appropriate to extend the period of use of these vouchers. Much of the vouchers concern winter and national tourism, including school and corporate trips. Vouchers will have an extended period of validity taking into account the existing rules established by tourism organisers with travellers. On the other hand, the extension of the deadline set for tourism to pay back to the Tourist Return Fund is justified by a prolonged epidemic. The introduction of the possibility to provide services in the repayment of support instruments received by entrepreneurs - this instrument responds to situations of chance which may prevent the fulfilment of commitments and the amendment introduces the possibility of redemption in whole or in part, deferment of payment deadlines, payment into instalments of the funds received under the support provided. Other tools are support for entrepreneurs engaged in the business of selling foodstuffs, paper, writing to students, listeners or pupils on the premises of educational systems. Subjects that have not been active throughout the closing period of schools or have been temporarily restricted will receive support under the sectoral shield. Other proposals for solutions in the bill include: changes due to the extension of time limits for registration of a vehicle, changes in the implementation of certain aid mechanisms, solutions for tenants operating in commercial galleries with a sales area of more than 2000 m2. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The solutions put in place are helpful and pro-entrepreneurial. They meet the expectations of groups affected by the adverse effects of the pandemic and are beneficial to citizens. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the solutions proposed in the bill and will vote in favour of it. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am also proposing amendments to this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u416	Thank you. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u417	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition, I have the honour to make comments on the so-called law. A COVID which once again shapes the area of state intervention and aid in such a difficult COVID reality. The bill, once again highly expected, is not complete. It's just a piece of what entrepreneurs are talking about. It is not the whole support system, but the work on this matter has been presented to us. First of all, I would like to make our key request, which is contained in several dozen amendments, responding to the needs of entrepreneurs left out in a very strict system of classification of PKD. In addition to the existing PKD procedure, we want to give an opportunity - due to social or economic considerations - to submit an amendment on the actual performance of the activity wherever the revenues of the company have dropped by 70%. This will allow for the placement of aid in these industries and those companies that have suffered the most from pandemics, which the aid does not include due to the very strict and narrow PKD. We make this gesture, taking into account also the conclusions, which include. a spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises sent to us. Secondly, we want to make clear the amendments which will allow entrepreneurs who have been denied the possibility of appealing against negative decisions on granting aid to be able to appeal against these decisions in an administrative procedure, all the more so as today the system of Polish case-law also forms. These are clearly indicated demands, expectations, demands from small and medium-sized enterprises. Another thing that needs support relates to a number of amendments that refer to the possibility of extending by at least three months the deadlines for projects which are financed by the European Union. The pandemic did not choose - sickness issues, issues of implementation problems require us to look at them in such a way as to exclude bureaucratic barriers in this regard. The next issue concerns the voucher that we support. The extension of the deadline for the implementation of the voucher at tourist events up to 2 years after they were planned is a postulate of the tourism industry, so strongly experienced in the pandemic. So that we support this request. School shops. We want to leave a very strict PKD to extend the possibility of supporting school shops also at universities, because there is no point in distinguishing them, because universities did not work either. I propose to delete the narrow PKD codes, and the only element will be the certificate of school heads or rectors respectively that school or university shops were in operation and, due to the pandemic, they had no possibility of receiving support. More stuff. Of course, we will support support instruments that offer the possibility to cancel all or part of the borrowings made. We will also support the amendment to change the algorithms for the National Health Fund. On the other hand, we are definitely opposed to including the entire IT sector in the COVID Act. We know that the state, the Polish government, has great problems in the implementation of computerization of public areas. We suggest we cross it out. Let the competent committee and the High Sejm in a separate bill, rather than on the fast COVID path, repair the information and public areas. We consider this to be frivolous because it requires a deeper analysis, a broader perspective and greater responsibility. Therefore, we suggest deleting the article. Article 2 and Article 2 3 laws and amend the law in this respect in the course of separate legislative work. The last case is whether one of the last is a question of reducing the rent between tenants and renters in large galleries. Let me remind you that this applies to more than 600 operators of large galleries and, of course, tens of thousands of tenants. Increase of 80% during the pandemic, in the future, and 50% 3 months after the closure of the lockdown, i.e. intervention in the civil law contract system, raises doubts and is of course important from the point of view of the tenants. We would expect State intervention in this respect in the form of compensation for operators (the Bell) running galleries, because two sides cannot be treated differently. That is why we will continue to expect government guidance on how the government intends to compensate for this aid for the owners of the gallery in the future, knowing that the interests of the tenants are extremely, extremely important. Thank you very much. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u418	Thank you very much. Now I would like to ask the floor of Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u419	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I have the honour on behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left to present a position regarding a government draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the Prevention of COVID-19. This bill is, of course, another one of the COVID laws. It's more a logistics law, a cosmetic law, implementing certain procedures resulting from the application of the law. We see only one new solution, namely this solution, which will include assistance, as in the industry shield, entrepreneurs leading the so-called. School shops. It is true that the legislator, the government, proposed a very large narrowness to a specific PKD number. Life shows that it's not PKD numbers that are in trouble, it's specific entrepreneurs. Minister, all you have to do is walk through the streets of towns and cities and see how many empty sites there are, how many shops and restaurants are being closed down. Therefore, I often ask: Could you have used this help, the trade shield? - You know, my PKD number was the right third one in the CUS because it wasn't the first one in the first one. Same goes for transport companies and so on. In view of the above, we should be open to a wider interpretation of what the entrepreneur is doing, actually doing, because it is not about helping the PKD number, but for a specific activity carried out by the entrepreneur. We should be open to a wider interpretation. Therefore, the Left Club considered it very important in discussions on the National Recovery Plan for those entrepreneurs who were most affected, i.e. Restaurants, the tourism industry. We put EUR 300 million in KPO for assistance in the first place for those industries I was talking about. This law extends the deadline for the implementation of vouchers, the deadline for the return to the Tourist Return Fund, is a good solution. Another good solution is the introduction of a legal basis to cancel the deferral of repayment and the payment of claims for support instruments received by entrepreneurs. Life dictates different solutions, death, long rehabilitation. It must be the law that will respond to this situation. As regards the other mechanisms that are in place here, this concerns the non-application of the Law on special arrangements for the protection of work for the duration of the pandemic. The principles of the allocation of funds between voivodship branches of health funds are changing. It is the pandemic that today sets out the forms of aid from the COVID fund for each voivodship branch, which more reflects this than the administrative division that had previously functioned. He's also making arrangements for... Or else: it restores the possibility of recruiting for the Prison Service, because two regulations, one Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, and the other Minister since the war has caused the deadline to go away and could not be properly recruited for the Prison Service. An extension of up to 60 days of time for registration of used, imported cars from abroad is an facilitation, especially in terms of the functioning of local government. Minister! We would like to make two amendments, which are very friendly. The first amendment should make life easier for you as Minister for Tourism. It's about amending the law on government departments. We add: tourism covers social tourism. It's written alive from a government project. The Minister knows exactly what's going on. I'm not gonna justify it. The second thing was introduced along with one of the earlier COVID laws. Applies to (the bell) of the Act - Law on associations. It is about extending the term of office of the association authorities. At the moment we have written down: no more than 60 days from the date of the withdrawal of the epidemic condition. We would like to add: no more than 180 days, but in the case of organizations that have regular units, i.e. they have a pyramidal structure. Circles, municipalities, powiats and voivodships are unable to implement this solution within 60 days. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u420	Thank you very much. In the meantime, a request has been received from the Member who indicated that you will have a committee meeting immediately after the end of this point. Yeah, I was just gonna... Therefore, in this exceptional case, I ask you to stick to time discipline. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives will be presented by Mrs Bożena Ironowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u421	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the law on government solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. This is another government project to help entrepreneurs affected by the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The solutions so far have not been sufficient, as we know, and not all entrepreneurs and farmers have been able to receive funding, even though they have suffered huge losses. The next shields were corrected, supplemented. We, Members of the Polish Coalition, listen to and act on behalf of entrepreneurs. It is good that entrepreneurs running school shops and entrepreneurs operating in shopping malls will now receive support. It is good that thanks to this law it is planned to introduce redemptions, defer repayment deadlines and set aside payments for instalments. However, this still does not solve many existing problems. As Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives we listen to the voice of entrepreneurs, we talk to organizations supporting entrepreneurs who know the issues best and can identify good solutions. Therefore, we have long been calling for support to be dependent on actual needs and losses caused by existing restrictions, not on the REGON registry's determination of their dominant activities according to the PKD code. Such a proposal is also proposed by the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises, who also proposes to introduce the conditions for the actual execution of a given type of economic activity, which should allow for the assistance of those entrepreneurs who actually carried out a given type of economic activity which entitles the legislator to receive support, but cannot demonstrate this by reference to the PKD code. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats supports the solutions proposed in this Act and continues to call for dialogue with entrepreneurs who are the main driver of our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u422	Thank you very much. This is the kind of time discipline I ask of the other countries as well. Mr Michał Urbaniak will present the position of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u423	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The first sharpening was introduced on 16 March 2020. You've been adding new ones. You gave up the stupidest ones, but that's not it yet. I'm going to refer to an amendment that's basically just another crisis shield. You show that you're still patching holes, fixing the problems that you've actually caused. You closed the schools, the kids got used to normal science, and by the way, they just got hit. To shop owners. Eventually, somebody remembered them. You're extending your support as part of the tourist refund fund - okay. You're prolonging the time to register cars. Okay. You extend the validity of tourist vouchers - also good. You transfer money from voivodships to voivodships within the NFZ, and you know that you created this problem. The system as such requires reconstruction, not creative accounting. You turned him upside down, suspended him, and it was because of you that people were dying. You have condemned tourism, gastronomy, transportation services, travel agents, hotelers, and even taxi drivers. You've closed down cultural centers, art galleries, museums and cinemas. You have graciously allowed after a year of absence from the market, for example. The tour pilots could benefit from a reduction in payments to the ZUS, and some of these people probably already had time to change or fall into ruins. We called for this kind of layoffs before the fall of last year. During the second and third wave of the pandemic of Coronavirus, 300,000 died in Poland. People. That's almost 100,000. more people than in the same periods in previous years. Most people died because of your inability, because of a lack of medical care, largely unrelated to the COVID. Now you are graciously defrosting the economy slowly, and from data published, among others. by Rzeczpospolita, it appears that every day of the hard lockdown that was used cost Poles 1300 million PLN. Your shields aren't gonna cover it, and the printers are gonna hang anyway. You've hit 40 industries with your restrictions. Your decisions cost an average of about 3,000 citizens. zł. You didn't protect society anyway, you failed anyway. Now you're sewing again. And that's what you're gonna be responsible for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u424	Thank you very much. I don't see Mr Kulesza in the room. I would therefore like to ask the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u425	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 a position on the government draft law amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law provides for a number of changes concerning the regulation of COVID. There are good solutions in it, and therefore the Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will try to improve this project even more. We're making a number of amendments. The first objective is to maintain the solutions contained in the Article. Fifteen. In addition, we propose deletion in Article. 1 point (4) (a) in the draft law, the second indent, due to the inadmissibility of regulation at the level of the regulation, and this is precisely what the proposed solution is going to do. The draft law proposes to grant the President of the Council of Ministers broad powers to entrust IT tasks. This is not a solution related to the situation of the epidemic, it can give rise to powerful fraud, which is why we propose moving this discussion to the relevant committees, and at this stage deleting this point in the draft law. In addition, in view of the interests of the citizens, we propose that a solution be put in place to enable the traveller to oppose the extension of the period of implementation of the voucher. We believe that equality between the parties must be ensured and that trust must be shown, on the one hand, towards entrepreneurs and, on the other hand, towards consumers. The provisions relating to the PKD codes, where the indication authorising school shops to receive support, are noteworthy. It is worth to stop for a moment, because this example shows the disability associated with the limitation by the Law and Justice of the aid depending on the PKD code. After all, you know, ladies and gentlemen, that if school didn't work, then school shops necessarily did too, so it's simply unfair to seek out a forceful way to limit the possibility of this support. We have talked about this many times, the government has refused to waive the PKD codes, although this is the wrong solution. This is exactly the same situation as for the tourism industry. Tourist entrepreneurs have been given the opportunity to receive little support, but the Law and Justice government has forgotten about small shops, pastry shops, rental shops, laundry facilities that operate in the tourist industry. The government forgot about Mrs. Maria, who runs a pastry shop in Szczyrk, who made most of her profits during the season. The same applies to Mrs Katarzyna, who runs a laundry in Cieszyn Silesia providing services to hotels. These people were left out because of the government's application of barriers to entrepreneurs and employees in the form of PKD codes. Today I am once again calling out for such people, for these entrepreneurs and for employees. The government must stop dividing people into better and worse and excluding parts of them using PKD codes. I would also like to draw attention to the proposal to repeal the article. 15ze and introduction of solutions that provide for compulsory reduction of rent in galleries up to 20% and then 50%. It should be noted that the government has left out a number of important issues. Firstly, not all points in commercial facilities will be subject to such a ban, secondly, it violates the code rule of freedom of contract and interferes with civil law agreements, and thirdly, some provisions have been designed in breach of the constitutional principle of protection of interest in progress, which is extremely important. It is also important that the solutions so far have been made in a difficult compromise, a difficult compromise, while ensuring relative equality and stability, and the rules proposed by the government do not ensure this. It is worth two words on the issue of legal stability, because in a situation like a pandemic it becomes much more important. If this principle is not respected, entrepreneurs and workers not only have to face the consequences of the economic downturn but also have to adapt their activities to the changing rules. Unfortunately, this must be said and recalled that in the last year Law and Justice have not spared the people who have fought the consequences of the pandemic. Economic operators were not spared, workers were not saved. Further rules on the economic situation have changed as in kaleidoscope. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The provisions on limited partnership companies, on excise duties, documentation and other rules have been amended, which has made it necessary for entrepreneurs, instead of fighting a pandemic, to adapt to the new rules. We think this is something you shouldn't do. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 I request that the project be submitted to the committee in order to produce an even better wording of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u426	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. 13 people signed up for the questions. Fourteen. 14 people. Then I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Mr Rusiecki will be the first question to be asked by Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Which is already an amendment to the COVID laws, which probably doesn't count. These laws will soon run out of numbers to identify specific regulations and their numbers. Mr. Marshal asked me to make things work, so I'm just gonna make two points. Any entrepreneur who has lost on the COVID regulations should have the support of the government and therefore the PKD should not have any significance here. Second note. High Izbo, in the Polish constitutional system and in the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure, it is clearly indicated that the procedure is two-instant, so it should be obvious to allow the party to appeal against the adverse decision. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u428	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Grzyb.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u429	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law, as it has already been said many times, arranges certain matters which could not be resolved at the earlier stages of the Parliament's work, in particular the discourse on whether to help those who suffered losses or to classify according to the PKD. This has not been fully resolved, so we have another installment. I would like to draw attention to a positive element. It concerns e.g. time limits related to the registration or registration of vehicles. In the Old Towns there was a horror connected with the fact that this economic turnover continues, however, that cars are imported, bought, sold, other vehicles also, some vehicles that have to be registered and serve business and not just private use. It was one of the demands of entrepreneurs to just change it, it was unbearable. The second thing I want to say is helping crafts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, it could be found here, just in this act, because the craft deserves help, and not a new project is created, a new entity in the form of an incubator of crafts. The Freedom Institute is to be the distributor of this money. Perhaps it was necessary to include this in this bill, perhaps in further work it could be solved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u430	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Szczerba. Absent. Mr Aleksander Mishalski? There isn't. Mr Artur Łącki? There isn't. There is Mr Piotr Boris, whom we ask for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u431	Dear Marshal, Once again, I wanted to uphold the rights of entrepreneurs so badly affected by the pandemic. First of all, Minister, please accept our amendments which give us the opportunity to appeal against negative decisions to grant aid. This is often not possible in a hurry and in a pandemic, so this procedure will allow the full exercise of the right to second instance. Secondly, it is necessary to help all those who have suffered a real loss. PKD codes significantly narrow down the scope of activity, while the adoption of social conditions and the activities actually carried out will support all industries whose revenues have fallen below 70%. This is a huge demand of thousands of Polish small and medium-sized enterprises. Another issue is the question of State interference with the subject matter of contracts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We'd really like to help all the tenants in the galleries. It's a good way to lower rents, but we can't let the owners of the gallery go bankrupt either. Therefore, I think that the state should in future secure and compensate for the differences that will result from the losses incurred, knowing that the tenants are of course a priority. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u432	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few months ago, I spoke to the Minister about supporting small businesses, especially those with the greatest losses: school shops and those who for a year and a half had no income. Then on behalf of entrepreneurs from Bydgoszcz, Inowroclaw, Tucholi, I said: let's do something about it. Here's where I heard: we'll do it. A year and a half. I'm asking why it's so late. But on the other hand, I'm glad we're even doing something. Only that the case is not settled and we cannot let ourselves believe that it is enough to help one-off, because the aid must be spread out so that entrepreneurs not only survive, but can start back their businesses, sometimes single-person companies, which keep whole families alive. Let's remember that. Question to the Minister: When will we be able to extend this aid? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u434	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I kindly ask you to make an argument that overrides concerns about the provision on statutory regulation of leases for entities above 2 000. m which lease commercial surfaces. There have been allegations, first of all, that this is public aid, second, that these provisions must be notified in the European Union, and thirdly, there is also a likelihood of constitutional contradiction. I kindly ask the Minister to say that we can vote in this calmly, because this is important help, and that there will possibly be no negative effects that the representatives of the Board of Directors of the owners of these properties are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u436	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Krutul.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u437	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the age of the current COVID-19 PKD numbers are not exactly working in life. I propose to lean low on the fate of Polish entrepreneurs, whose representatives are the owners of small school shops. The owners of these businesses have been fighting for almost a year to keep themselves in the open market. These are small companies whose owners mostly vouch for them with their own assets. Yeah, my own property. This is important to them, which is why every day, every week, they experience very much that they can fail. That is why they need urgent support from the state. Let us remember that Polish business is the bloodline of the Polish economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u438	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Jan Szopiński a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A very important topic for thousands of small entrepreneurs, often engaged in a one-man business activity, which was their only source of livelihood, is what will happen next. I am also talking about shops located on the premises of entities partially or completely immobilized by a pandemic which have been omitted from the government aid scheme. Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Gentlemen! Minister! This code roulette should be over. Those who have suffered losses should receive State aid. Small and medium-sized enterprises should be able to appeal against negative decisions to assist them. This is what Kujaw and Pomerania entrepreneurs expect me to turn to the Minister. This is what small shops and companies located in hospitals and offices, to which access was partially (the Bell) or completely limited. Shields have protected some, and they should protect all those who have suffered losses and today have nothing to live for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u440	I would like to ask Mrs Marta Wcisło for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u441	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Better late than never. Hundreds of thousands of owners of Polish micro, small and medium-sized companies, tenants in shopping galleries were waiting for help and support from the state when their companies were closed in connection with the outbreak caused by COVID. They waited, but some of them didn't. They've talked about it many times. The current provisions of the COVID Act assume that, in the event of closure, after each lockdown these entrepreneurs will be able to extend the contracts by 6 months, which in fact gives almost 2 years of extension of unfavourable contracts concluded under different economic conditions. It's not helping. It's a muzzle, as they say. Some people didn't lift this muzzle. I've talked about it many times, I've appealed, I've written interpellations, I've spoken to the Minister, I've been calling the Ministry for several months. I'm glad today that these voices, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The voices of these people have been heard. I am glad that in the current draft law, the rent reduction in the case of lockdown is 80%, 50% after 3 months of lockdown. These are good solutions, but they do not exhaust the list of expectations, such as the abolition of PKD codes. About these entrepreneurs and these jobs, I'm gonna insist on it and I'm gonna ask for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u442	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask you to ask Mr Grabczuk for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u443	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Support for entrepreneurs is the responsibility of every government. It's entrepreneurs who pay taxes, it's entrepreneurs who hire people, it's entrepreneurs who risk their assets. And now these unfortunate PKD codes. We have said from the beginning that this is not a good criterion. It is a pity that you did not want to listen to the opposition, because really if you listened, and we have talked about this many times, today we would not have to proceed on this bill. It is often said that entrepreneurs are well. Nothing simpler, ladies and gentlemen. It takes 10 minutes, sometimes 3 minutes to start a business and start running it. Let's try it, and then we'll see if it's that easy or not. And if we do business for some time, we will also gain respect for those who do business on a daily basis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u444	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u445	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. The first concerns the proposed Article. 15ze However, the question is: Why did the government not propose to refer to the actual activity or not carried out when designing these provisions? After all, we know that some of these shops, especially large foreign trading networks, functioned. There were drugstores, construction shops. It therefore appears that they should be treated differently than those which were closed. Why is there no balance between these sides? Second: For what reasons did this law provide the President of the Council of Ministers with incredibly broad powers regarding the commissioning of tasks, the commissioning of some kind of IT-related work? Why is there no category of economic verification and economic verification in the proposed legislation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u446	Thank you very much. You will answer the questions asked by Minister Andrzej Gut-Mostowy. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u447	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Well, the need for this law seems to be the most credible vote in the Parliamentary Committee. I would like to remind you that by 30 votes the Sejm committee supported the provisions of this law with 2 abstentions, which shows that the essential provisions of this law appear to be very necessary and expected by industry and by public institutions. Of course, I would like to thank you for even some criticism, raising doubts about some of the entries is most appropriate and we will try to resolve them both in the committee and in the session of the Sejm. With regard to the amendments tabled, we will take appropriate decisions at the committee meeting which will take place today after an examination with the various departments. Let me refer to those questions that were raised just now. As regards the recurring issues of the possibility to appeal against decisions relating to aid related to COVID, I would like to remind you that this is not an administrative procedure and is entitled to an appeal, an action before a court, which may be prosecuted. On the other hand, as far as the other questions are concerned, it is worth noting Mr Piotr Boris' question about contracts and issues relating to galleries and relations between tenants and tenants. It is already the law and art. 357 The Civil Code allows for the verification or revision of existing contracts due to certain exceptional circumstances which do not allow the performance of contracts and the relationship between the tenant and the tenant, therefore the articles introduced, Article. 15z Mr Tomaszewski's question concerning public aid as well. I'd just like to add that art. 76 of the Constitution states that the tenant is also subject to legal protection, in the presumption of economic protection. Mrs Wcislo has raised some positive aspects of this law quite strongly, stressing that tenants do not have, as far as legal relations are concerned, a slightly weaker position in relation to the tenants when it comes to contracts in galleries. And that was probably the intention of the legislator. I would like to stress that the entire law was drawn up by many ministries in cooperation with the NPRM, with the Ministry of Finance, therefore these records are very precisely verified, and also defines the financial possibilities of the State. With regard to the issue raised by Mr Suchon regarding the commission of IT processes by the President of the Council of Ministers, of course, the pandemic situation has led to the extortion and acceleration of digital, IT processes not only in the sphere of the economy but also in public institutions around the world. And giving additional rights so that new digitization processes between sectors can be undertaken in a quick, even very automatic manner, between public sector institutions seems to be most appropriate. And all the more well-founded it seems that the inclusion of these records [[♪ The bell ♪]] should be in the COVID act so that we do not have to wait many months to create new records. I will answer these questions that I have not answered in writing as soon as possible. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u448	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the urgent draft law amending the Foreign Service Act (prints 1163 and 1184). I ask Mr Radosław Fogel to present a report to the committee. The report will be presented by the Member in a remote mode. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u449	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report from the Foreign Affairs Committee on the urgent draft government law amending the Foreign Service Act from print No 1163. May 14th this year Marshal of the Sejm sent the project to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, after first reading and after considering the draft at its meeting, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law to the report. At the request of Members, 11 minority proposals were attached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u450	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Radosław Fogel to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u451	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour and pleasure to present my position on the amendment of the Foreign Service Act. As was the case with the original law, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour and fully support the solutions presented here. What is especially worth mentioning on this occasion? Firstly, in advance of the words that are likely to fall from this speaker during the speeches of the representatives of the opposition, I would like to point out that, at the request of the government, this is an urgent bill, and that it is, therefore, treated as it is adopted for such projects. Hence the fast path of both the committee and the Sejm. That's one thing. Secondly, this project, which is its main objective, amends, amends or adapts to the current situation, largely due to the pandemic of Coronavirus, a large part of the provisions on employment in the foreign service, wage regulation, widely understood labour rights. Enough to recall, for example, an example of a situation in which a worker or diplomat is recognised in the host country as a person non grata. Here we introduce provisions that will be provided by the employee and by the employer, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to uphold the labour law in such a situation. It is also worth mentioning one change in this law, a very important, very significant and very strengthening role of Parliament. To date, the fact that candidates for ambassadors of the Republic of Poland were presented and presented to Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs was due to the Seym's custom and tradition. This law contains a new provision, which was also introduced at the request of the parliamentarians of the club Law and Justice to turn this tradition into a right. From now on, as the High Sejm will adopt this law, it will be an obligation for the Committee on Foreign Affairs to express its opinion on the candidate for ambassador. I consider this to be a very important change, which significantly strengthens the role of MEPs in the Polish Parliament. During our previous term of office, we were dealing with situations where this tradition was not respected. There have been cases where already appointed ambassadors met with the Committee on Foreign Affairs only after its conclusions. As I said, after the call. At this point, after this amendment we will avoid situations such as from our parliamentarians, the point of view is very beneficial. In this connection, as I mentioned at the outset, the Law and Justice Club supports the submission of print No 1163. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u452	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Mark Krzykala, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u453	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! When it came to the news that the Foreign Service Act was again under discussion by the Sejm, we were hoping that the government had made a reflection and learned from all the critical comments that had been tried to save the contents of this law. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. The paradox is that we are updating a law that has not yet entered into force and already contains several dozen amendments. The government is revengeed by the fact that in January the law was prosecuted without consultation, without public hearing, without further reflection on such important matter as foreign service. Despite the translations by Minister Lorzek, whom I value and respect, at the committee meeting yesterday, that we have a pandemic and work in difficult conditions, there is no way to resist the impression that we are dealing with unjustified haste and, to put it mildly, legislative negligence. It was the government that introduced the night procedure in our Seym without consulting or public hearing. That's what you did with the Constitutional Court laws, the Supreme Court or the National Judicial Council. These forceful solutions will one day take revenge on the government, because it is easy to destroy something, but it is much harder to rebuild the decent quality of legislation and the quality of our parliament. As regards the draft law in detail, it is worth noting that you have taken into account concerns about the rights of women raising young children and the period of motherhood or parental leave does not mean that they are temporarily unable to perform their duties in a foreign institution. You have also clarified the definition of a family member and allow for a diplomatic degree to be given to people who have completed the National School of Public Administration. Unfortunately, this is where good solutions end. The Foreign Service Act is bad for several reasons. First of all, the status of professional diplomat has been demoted, aligning it with the status of employees without preparation and professional experience. Persons sent to work in foreign offices will have unverified competences that will be indicated by party line. This is an unacceptable reduction in substance. It is equally unacceptable that you put out your employment relationship for people who are over 65 years of age. You get rid of experienced diplomats and discriminate against them because of their age. This is an unconstitutional solution and contrary to the Labour Code. In the National Reconstruction Plan sent to Brussels, the government reports on labour market difficulties and announces incentives for people who want to work longer. So what's it like? Older people can work anywhere but in foreign service? The quality of work is certainly not affected by age, which in the past was proved by Minister Władysław Bartoszewski. You are demoting the status of ambassador, creating the possibility to appoint persons regardless of the fulfilment of the conditions, bringing its substantive preparation to comply with the party line. That's not enough, you're releasing him from all responsibility, because his deputy is responsible for running the facility. This politicalisation and stubbornness of the foreign service is the main charge against this law, because instead of strengthening, it destroys and destroys Polish diplomacy. You are creating a new position as Head of Foreign Service and the powers of the Director-General will be severely reduced. Such a person does not need to be a professional diplomat, it is enough to have only 3 years of managerial experience. And yet, it will decide on the granting of diplomatic degrees and the course of a professional career. It's a mistake for HR policy to be focused in one hand. You are creating new diplomatic degrees, but you do not specify what criteria will apply, apart from demanding full availability and introducing a system of penalties for lack of loyalty. You're calling a convention to life to decide on the choice of candidates for the position of ambassador. This artificial creation will not cause our country to represent prominent people who know the art of diplomacy. All they have to do is be faithful to your party. And that is the essence of the problem: to embezzle all possible structures of the state. That can't be allowed. You've devastated justice and the rule of law, and now you're doing foreign service. Instead of strengthening the position and image of Poland, you are pushing it into the margins of the European Union, and your governments will be associated with the initiation of proceedings with the article. 7 and violation of the rule of law. If someone was hoping to improve our foreign policy through this bill, it is unfortunately wrong. That's too bad. As the Civic Coalition Club, we cannot accept this amendment and we will vote against it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u454	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Maciej Gdula, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u455	Thank you very much. I'm sad, Mr. Marshal, and I'm sad, High Izbo, because today is a very sad occasion. We're investigating a bill that improves the bill that we've been investigating just a few months ago in January. In January, Law and Justice convinced us that this was a good bill and should be voted as soon as possible. Today, when I look at the benches of Law and Justice, I'm not surprised they're completely empty. There's no law and justice. I don't think they came here out of shame because there's really something to be ashamed of. This bill that we're working on today is a law that basically consists of 20 amendments that are trying to fix that bill, but it's not really possible to fix it. I'll admit, yesterday I was very surprised at what it looked like to be running over another bill. Mr Fogiel has taken heroically upon himself the amendments tabled by the legislators, because this bill is also tabled on the cap. This is the production of the law for safety pins, for chewing gum. That's not how it's supposed to proceed. What has been changed to Members of Law and Justice is also very sad. Because today these are for Jarosław Kaczyński primarily some voting mannequins, not Members who should work and should demand the dignity of the legislative process. I'm outraged by that. I am also outraged by what is being done with Polish diplomacy, because it is an idea for diplomacy to actually change into a common diplomatic movement. The doors are wide open for people who will, above all, be faithful to the parties. It's incredibly sad. This is not any grace, what Mr Fogiel said, who is the rapporteur of this bill, because the fact that it is necessary to hear before the committee is merely a confirmation that these are party nominees. This committee, in which the party majority will have a decisive opinion, will accept them. This is therefore not a strengthening of Parliament, but a strengthening of the politicality of the diplomatic service. I don't think that's what diplomacy is all about. There is one significant part of the new proposed law. Well, the vow formula is expanding. It is said that by taking an oath, a diplomat can say, "So help me God." It seems to me that this says everything, because only belief in providence can make this initiation of diplomatic service somehow swallowed up. Well, I believe that diplomacy should be professional, not based on faith in providence. I believe that it should be based on competence, not belief in some superhuman power. If faith is important to someone, it should remain private. On the other hand, the state should be based on law, competence, professionalism. If we move away from this and, above all, try to glue the plastic, then the future is dark ahead of us. We're not gonna put our hands on this bill. The Left Club will be against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u456	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives will be presented by Władysław Bartoszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u457	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ever since I was a kid, I've been associated with the Foreign Office with Shucha Avenue. Five years ago, the ministry moved mentally to Janów Podlaski and took the route of a once famous horse stud. And in January this year. joined the matrices created by two Americans of Polish origin, but they did not predict this volt of the MFA in their scenario. In January, the Polish government pushed through 36 hours of a destructive bill demolishing the Polish foreign service. The bill had 92 articles. At the committee meeting, the Deputy Minister had the audacity, not Minister Wawrzyk, the Deputy Minister had the audacity to instruct its members how to work. He should be disciplined for that. It immediately turned out that it was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that did not know how to work, because during the proceedings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Legal Office of the Sejm questioned practically every article and one described it as contrary to the Constitution. We've been working until hours. Three o'clock in the morning at this catastrophic bill. The government majority in the committee, and then in the parliament hall, however, passed this legal bullshit at an express rate. As a result of such reckless procession, before the law entered into force in June, the government had already made an urgent amendment which the committee had to consider immediately. Up to 92 articles of the Act, the government has tabled 21 amendments, and two further amendments to these amendments have been made by the government. This shows complete legislative sloppyness. And I thought there were a lot of lawyers at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Passing this law in January had three objectives, real goals, not what we heard from the rapporteur. First of all, getting rid of the Director-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and replacing him with the new Head of Foreign Service. However, yesterday's amendments provide that the new boss will have frozen competence by 2023, which is theoretically there, but there is nothing he can do. This is parallel reality and pure matrix. The second objective was to get rid of professional diplomats and replace them as ambassadors by supporters of the ruling party regardless of their lack of experience, knowledge and knowledge of foreign languages. It gives the government over 100 seats in our embassies for his supporters. The Foreign Ministry hypocritically explained that the United States of America is also sending people outside the professional foreign service to become ambassadors. However, the Ministry did not agree to say that since the mid-50s, only 30% of American ambassadors were not foreign ambassadors, and this percentage actually increased in President Trump's term of office to 40%, but not to 100%. It's like this sick act. The State Department has so far recognised, in contrast to this law, the category of ambassadors. The Works Commission of the NSZZ.Solidarity of the Workers of the Foreign Service of the Republic of Poland has submitted very critical comments to this law, which also sent me. Only a crazy article on discrimination against women has been taken into account. By the way, and in violation of labour law, the Labour Code was decided to get rid of experienced foreign service workers, mandatoryly, i.e. compulsoryly, by eliminating labour relations due to the achievement of the retirement age. That's what Art says. 41 laws, which should, of course, be deleted. Working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs requires education, knowledge of languages, knowledge and experience that is acquired over the years. The problem is that such diplomats have reason and their own opinions and will not be mindless performers of party orders. This bill, even with the corrections, should end up in a trash can. Our club will vote no. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u458	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Krystian Kaminski to present the position of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u459	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're discussing the Foreign Service Act again. We're sitting again as a matter of urgency. Normal groundhog day. And you know what? I am convinced that we will be debating the Foreign Service Act again for a few months and again as a matter of urgency. Because what you did yesterday is no different than what you did in January. I could play my January speech on my tablet today, where I said I'd meet you in a couple of months. And in a couple of months, I'll be able to play today's speech where I say we'll meet again in a couple of months. I'll remind you what happened in January. On Wednesday morning, we had our first reading, a committee report was already scheduled for Thursday morning, and there was not even a deadline for sitting the committee itself. We started the committee meeting around an hour. Eighteen, we're done at the hour. Three o'clock in the morning. During this time we tabled a number of amendments, all of which were rejected. The Legislative Office for each article tabled amendments, talked about the non-constitutionality of parts of the amendments. And then what happened? There was no Vice Minister there, there was another Deputy Minister, but he said: We know better, we know better what is correct, we know better what the constitution looks like and what is in line with the constitution, what there is a Legislative Office, we know it better. On Thursday, the second reading, the committee's report on Thursday, the vote, and in 36 hours, you passed this legal bullshit. What about yesterday? More than 20 amendments, the Legislative Bureau had to practically add something to everyone. Total sloppyness, total sloppyness, really. To tell us there wasn't time again? The minister yesterday was gracious to say that the bill was so sloppy because there was COVID time and they did not have time to prepare the bill well, and it had to be adapted now. But what do the corrections look like? E.g. Amendment 6, in Article. 33 in paragraph 2. 1 The following second sentence is added: The vows may be made with the addition of words, so help me God. Did COVID's time really lead to the fact that the original bill didn't include this? That's typical sloppy stuff, isn't it? I don't know if you're just saying they have to vote something out. There was an assignment in advance: quickly push in, anything so we could change our diplomacy. Because that's what it looked like! I don't know. If this bill, these amendments, are to restore the glow of our diplomacy, to make a difference in our diplomacy, to bring glory to our diplomats, not in this way, because anyone who will see us working on it knows that this cannot end well. I'm really surprised. You've had so much time to prepare, it's not like you've been in charge since yesterday, you've been in charge for six years. So? And this bill, and these amendments were made, I don't know, in two days, because that's what it looks like. This is sad because maybe the intentions were good out there, but everything you've done in this context will lead to a reduction in the status of all diplomatic personnel. You realize that, and you're still into it. Instead of giving yourself time to work on all this, show that we can do it together. After all, we other Members in the Committee on Foreign Affairs also wanted this law to be good to raise the prestige of our service, but whatever amendment we have not tabled, whatever we did not want to discuss, it was one thing: the government is negatively referring to your amendment. And that's it, and that's it, and everybody's happy. One of the amendments of the Confederation was that the ambassador should have only Polish citizenship. It's a perfectly logical situation, because it would be weird, because you can't serve two masters, right? Therefore, the ambassador should have only Polish citizenship, this is the amendment we tabled. She's gone because we know one of the ambassadors has at least double citizenship. And the question is, do you want more ambassadors like that? Didn't the amendment go through? Was the entire bill, or was the entire article created only so that one ambassador could stay? Because if so, it is an exceptional situation that we write one article in the bill only under one ambassador. I'm really surprised at what you're doing, and I don't think it's gonna bring you any glory. Although you will change these ambassadors, you will throw everyone away (the bell), you will place your own, but it will not bring you glory, because everyone will know that it was wrongly done, and the next governments - and hopefully it will be the governments of the Confederation - will have to fix this situation, and it will unfortunately take a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u460	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 will be presented by Mrs Joanna Mucha.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u461	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 in relation to the amendment of the Foreign Service Act. Maybe I'll say it right away, and it won't surprise anyone that we're going to vote against this bill because it's a project about a revolutionary exchange of personnel from professional personnel to PiS-owskie. This is how this project should be summarized and it really is not about anything else. Let me put it this way: if our diplomatic service works with our partners abroad in the way that ministers worked at committee meetings, I am very surprised that we are not at war with a country yet, because it would probably have to be treated as a miracle. I know that you see enemies everywhere, you see threats everywhere, conspiracies everywhere, and you see yourself as a victim surrounded by enemies, but I ask that before you harm us even more abroad, please accept that there are partners abroad with whom you are negotiating, not enemies with whom you are fighting. Now, let me tell you about this bill. Released by the Prime Minister from the obligation of prior creation, the Act affects the Sejm on 13 January, assumes a completely new model of operation of the foreign service. Two days in the Seym, first reading January 20, second and third reading January 21. The Senate rejects it in its entirety as a bullshit that is not suitable for further proceding. The Sejm, of course, rejects the Senate's position, the bill is published on 15 March, is to enter into force on 16 June. So we're in the middle of a vacathio legis and we're changing this bill. It's just space. This is the standard of work of the PiS service. Six pages of amendments. What's going on at the committee meeting? Mr Fogiel, lost in the articles, in the amendment, improves the amendment with a self-correction, which also needs to be improved. He reports at the wrong time of the procedure, the legislative office requests a 10-minute break to clarify the matter with the applicant. Suspended work on the amendment and process at another place of printing. I must say that such chaos and such a display of sloppyness I haven't seen in a long time in our Seym. Minister Wawrzyk. And apparently, the Minister behaved better than his predecessor at earlier committee meetings. Your candidate for an ombudsman is rude and sarcastic towards Members who are in the Chamber. When asked about the qualifications of the Head of Foreign Services, he answers that the requirements cannot be higher than those of the Head of Administration, which is your method of action is simple. First lower the standards in one place, then equal everything down. So far down that we really don't have enough imagination. But you show that you can do it. These assumptions, which are in this bill, are that it is to be open to people of science, experts, business people, officials... Then why, ladies and gentlemen, do not hang a high bar if it is to be such people, do not require them to be highly qualified. But no, why? Honestly? Because you just don't have a large enough group of your families, your friends, so they can go on a long trip abroad and make some money, by the way. The post of Minister of Plenipotentiary will rise. I think it seems to me that a few people simply dream of being a minister, because even in this government, where there are most ministers than ever there was in Poland, not everyone fits in. Ministers, and some people dream of being called Minister. Such a minister will not have to have a higher education or two foreign languages. Unbelievable. I don't think our foreign service has ever been this low. Finally, forcing diplomats to retire at the age of 65. The maneuver is exactly the same one that was executed in the case of judges, bailiffs and prosecutors. This is open discrimination. Let's hope he finds the finale in court. And a convention to make personal decisions. Another dummy institution, such a PiS group, which will imitate the institution of the Polish state again. This bill is terrible. Really, as we all know, and we know the PiS standards, I don't think any of us expected that a bill that bad could be presented to the Sejm. As I said at the beginning, we will vote against this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u462	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. We're approaching a series of questions. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Jan Szopiński will be the first question to be asked. Mr. Marshal, not in this. Then Mr Andrzej Grzyb.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, the question is, after all, we remember that on January 21 we passed a law, a new law on foreign service. The bill is due to enter into force in mid-June. This law has not yet entered into force, and we are already amending this law, in such cardinal cases as the question of retirement age. This is still so led that this will probably end with a request to the Constitutional Court for the legitimacy of this decision or in many other cases. 21 amendments to the law, which has ninety-six articles, are not a good certificate issued to the applicants of this law. Regardless of this, this statutory amendment contains, of course, many errors. I'll give you one example. If there are to be hearings of candidates for ambassadors before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, whether the European Commission for European Affairs set up in the Sejm, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which is a 10% composition representing the political composition of the Polish Parliament, should not it also be entitled to have a candidate for the Head of Delegation to the European Union being questioned in the presence of this committee? We lay down certain rules of play, of functioning in European affairs, and here we believe that this is not necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u464	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krystian Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u465	I have one specific question. Yesterday, as in January, you rejected the Confederation's amendment to allow ambassadors and permanent representatives to have only Polish citizenship. Can it therefore be assumed that this article, which refers to the fact that the ambassador may have dual citizenship, concerns only the one person who has it now and does not want to rule it out, do you plan to also include more people who have double citizenship in the future as ambassadors or permanent representatives of Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u466	Thank you. Mr Michael Szczerba. There isn't. Mr Michał Grammar. You're welcome to ask a question. Excuse me, Mr Mishalski. We're gonna have to ask you a question in a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u467	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Promotion of working and social activity of seniors - this is one of your leading slogans, I look towards the PiS, the previous five-year plan, which for the unmistakable you called a strategy for responsible development. The Golden Autumn of Life - such a password is also found in the current 5-year plan, which for the unknown you called the Polish Ład. It's about encouraging seniors to work after they're 65 years old. Unless they're diplomats, because then under art. 4 submitting as a birthday present their employment relationship expires by law. This is a gift you prepare for experienced diplomats. This is a provision that is incompatible with the Labour Code, that is a provision that violates the standards of the Polish Constitution. Art. 32: no one can be discriminated against for whatever reason. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's called ageism. It's based on stereotypes. This behavior is stigmatized and finger-pointed in all developed countries. Shame on you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u468	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The discussion about amending the law governing our diplomatic services is a great shame. The bill adopted by this House in January, which has not yet entered into force, is being corrected by you today. Worse still, even with these amendments, the Sejm Analysis Office makes numerous comments. It is a shame to those many well-educated Polish embassies and consular offices that they have to look at the fact that we have nominees for the functions of ambassadors or party nominates consuls who are completely unqualified for this. And it's no longer a shame for PiS, it's a shame for Poland. Please think about this country because these are the people who will represent the majesty of the Republic abroad. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u470	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Wanda Nowick. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u471	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Foreign Service Act is part of the policy of exchanging elites in all sectors of public life consistently pursued by the PiS from the very beginning. The PiS, with the consequence of a better case from the beginning of its government, lists professionals, e.g. in the judiciary and the entire justice system and replacing them with the mediocre but faithful who will execute every, even the most shameful order of authority. Now it's time for foreign service. The formation of a new class of diplomats, such as Ambassador Przyłębski in Germany or deputy ambassador in the Czech Republic, who threatens the Czech Government with a deterioration of diplomatic relations with Poland, if the Polish people can continue to abort pregnancy in the Czech Republic, brings shame to us in the international arena. And what happens next when the bill comes into force? The bill is not only harmful (the bell), it is still bullshit. It's really embarrassing that after six years of government, you don't know how to write laws. When will you finally learn to write laws that you won't have to correct the next day? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u472	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! With regard to the proposed project, you can actually only value emotions, bad emotions. Because you can't do anything else. I would like to say that at the beginning, Mr Fogiel warned the opposition. There was one strong point in your speech, Mr President. Those were the turquoise frames you showed up in, they were very nice. And that's all, really all, for all the rest you should put down the veil of mercy. I wonder if this is the Sejm, whether it's a roller coaster, whether it's a pilot flying with us, whether it's just a ministry of stupid steps, because if you've been making corrections, autofixes since January, then basically the whole project has been crushed. Besides, you must have heard it again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want to ask you something else. Let's start with the foundation. Have you ever heard of the principle of constitutionality, the principle of stability and continuity in law, the principle of social consultation or the principle of adequate time for discussion? Why don't you start with that, then it'll definitely be easier for you to make a good law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u474	Thank you. The question will be asked by Małgorzata Niemczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u475	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This novel shows what kind of people we have in the PiS government, what people work there. You guys aren't professionals. Your rush is making it worse. You make a bill without consulting, without listening. You're making legal bullshit. The law that didn't come into force is being corrected, and I want you to make it by June 16th. I heard it was supposed to be a success, and it turned out to be a failure. Lots of miscarriages. It took two days to process in the Seym. Applications for rejection have been made. The Senate rejected it in its entirety because the bill was wrong and there was nothing to correct it. The diplomatic service should be like the Olympic staff: the best of the best. Our country should be represented by prominent people. Meanwhile, when it comes to the number of amendments, ooh... and hu, hu. I'm embarrassed. Ha, ha, ha! Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of the reflection, because I think it's an eagle league club. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He will prove to be a better representative of the country in international games of ten-year-olds than the planned diplomatic service you are preparing for us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u476	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u477	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's nothing worse for lawmaking than writing a set on your knee. All the opposition clubs said a few weeks ago that this is a bad bill, especially because it concerns such sensitive matter, and that it is necessary to bend over and create a good law that will serve all Poles. The art of diplomacy is one of the most difficult pieces. Minister, times aren't easy and they won't be easy. Therefore, if we make law, let us think about the consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, you are sending amateurs to pros just as you would send amateur boxers to professional boxers. You're gonna get hit in the jaw, you're gonna be lying on the boards. But the worst part is that it will be at the expense of Poland. (BELL RINGING) Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u478	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u479	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question does not concern the strict draft amendment of the law, but concerns the law itself. I will honestly admit that when I heard that you would create this project and that he would be prepared in such a way that he would guarantee that not even one wrong person would slip through there, i.e. without competence, without education, without an adequate level of patriotism in the heart, I thought that the rules would be conducive to recruiting the best of the best. I must say, Minister, I'm very disappointed. I would say that disappointment is very great, because I was hoping that you would be able to rise above the level that you normally represent, and as a government, you would create a bill that would guarantee a great corps of foreign services. And now the basic question, Minister: What is the purpose of this service? I would ask you very much to answer this question, because in my opinion (the bell) this law will promote the formation of the so-called corps. Bmw, means passive, mediocre, but faithful. Of course, not all employees, not all diplomats will get into this category, but I have the impression that the emphasis in this law was placed just so that the mouse would not slip through there, but in this negative sense. Minister, what's with the diplomatic service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u480	The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, In January this year. The Sejm adopts the bill, which it corrects after a few months. Does this law concern the economy, concerns the health of Poles? No, this bill concerns diplomatic personnel. Dear Minister, you were a candidate for the Ombudsman, then you spoke about equal treatment of Poles. What do you have to say to Poles today if you want to release Polish diplomats from diplomatic posts on your 65th birthday? Dear Minister, I'm just gonna ask you if the president is fully aware of this bill. Because I'm sure he'll be very unhappy. The second point is the question of Polish diplomats who do not have a higher education, they do not know two languages. Are we really going in this direction in the Polish foreign service? Should we tell the young Poles that this is how PiS tries to shape the staff? [[♪ The bell ♪]] But what personnel, diplomatic staff. This bill is outrageous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u482	Thank you very much, sir. After this question, the list of persons enrolled in the questions was exhausted. I now ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Piotr Wawrzyk to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u483	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! To answer the questions, I would like to start with a few issues that also appeared in the form of questions in club speeches. Why this bill now, why this mode? I hope you've all noticed what happened a week, a month, a month and a half ago. I hope that you have all noticed that we had a third wave of pandemic, which was the largest in terms of scale, from the previous ones, and has led to difficulties in functioning, actually on the border of capacity, administration, among others. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs as regards the number of persons in quarantine, sick and hospitalized. You may not be aware of this, but unfortunately this was the case and it was therefore impossible to submit this project earlier. I would not like to refer to some of the speeches, e.g. Mr Grunkle or Mrs Flies, because you misjudged both laws in your speeches, referring to the old one, talking about a new one or vice versa, so I think I will leave this without comment. Mr Bartoszewski asked about the competences why we are supposedly freezing the powers of the Head of Foreign Service. Mr President, we are not freezing, please read the text of the bill, this function is created de facto on 16 June and the chief is starting to function. Please do not suggest the rules that have been taken out of context, and look at the whole of the law, especially those parts that talk about the scope of the foreign service chief's competence. Nor do we remove the position of Director-General in spite of appearances, as it has been formulated here, because we are separating these two functions. I thought it would rather be your understanding, because it is the adaptation of the foreign service structure to the civil service. We've got the head of civil service, we're gonna have the head of foreign service. We have CEOs and we will have Director General at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mrs Mucha claimed, and at the end, Mr Szopiński's voice appeared, that we are abolishing the requirement of knowledge of languages and higher education for ambassadors. You, Mrs Mucha, have been in the governing coalition for 8 years, why didn't you introduce this requirement then? Because this record doesn't change in relation to what was, it is, and it's going to be the same in this regard. Such records concerning the competence of candidates for ambassadors have been in force in the current Act since 2001 and here we do not change anything. Do not mislead the public that they have abolished the law or the January or the amendment, the requirement for ambassadors to have a higher education or the requirement for them to know two languages. This requirement was not and this requirement is not as it was before. Nothing is changing in this respect. Please, I'm appealing again. I understand that politics is governed by its laws, you have to use nice rhetorical terms to attract public attention, but let us not mislead the public. Mr Kaminski... Sorry, but Mrs Mucha also said that we were lowering the level of staff, and this also occurred later with Mr Suchon. I'm asking for an example. Those who want to be professional diplomats will have to pass the diplomat's exam so far. I'll tell you more, we're raising the level of education at the Diploma Academy, which will carry out these exams, by creating it in quotes, or perhaps without quotes, I'm sorry, the Diplomat Academy from a real event. Its aim will be to educate diplomats at the highest level for, we hope, not only Poland, but also neighbouring countries of our region. That is the purpose of this amendment... I'm sorry I didn't change it, but the original law, because the status of the academy was given in the original law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So when it comes to these issues, nothing changes. A few more points have emerged. First of all, 65 years. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that anyone who is willing and feels fit in terms of health and physical strength may ask the Head of Foreign Services to extend his or her employment and to serve in the foreign service. And that's it. But there's no appeal. Anyone will be able to do it. The Head of Foreign Affairs, based on clear and clear criteria, in other words, will be able to extend the duration of his duties. As for political nominations, ladies and gentlemen, we have allowed ourselves to take a summary: more ambassadors outside the foreign service were in the years 2008 to 2015 than after 2015. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u484	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, drawn up at Kumamoto on 10 October 2013 (prints Nos 1127 and 1181). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u485	Thank you very much. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I present a report on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, drawn up at Kumamoto on 10 October 2013. The draft law contained in print No 1127 entered the Parliament on 26 April this year, and on 30 April it was addressed to first reading in committees. On 18 May, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs carried out their first reading and then detailed work on the project, the result of which is the report. It was adopted by 45 votes in favour, with no votes against, with one abstention. High Izbo! The Minamata Convention on Mercury was concluded to protect human health and the environment from anthropogenic emissions and releases of mercury and mercury compounds. Ratification of the convention and obtaining the status of the parties by our country will allow Poland to participate in the conference of the parties, actively participate in decision-making, shaping guidelines and criteria in matters governed by the Convention. The Republic of Poland proposes here a balanced approach, i.e. avoiding unilateral actions which would result in a decrease in the competitiveness of the Polish economy and not have a global impact. In particular, the Convention covers the following issues: mercury supply sources and trade in mercury, as referred to in Article. 3 of the Convention - mercury-added products - this is dealt with by Article. 4 - production processes where mercury or its compounds are used - that is Article. 5 conventions - mining of traditional and small-scale gold, emissions of mercury and its compounds into the atmosphere - Article. 8 of the Convention - the release of mercury and its compounds into land and water - this is what Article treats. 9 - Transitional storage of mercury other than waste - that is included in Article. 10 of the Convention - the treatment of mercury waste and the identification and evaluation of places contaminated with mercury or its compounds - these are Article. Article 11 and Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 12 conventions. High Izbo! Ratification of the Convention will not result in the need to amend the Polish legal order, except for amendments which result from the need to implement Regulation No 2017/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union of 17 May 2017 on mercury. This regulation complements European law by bringing it into line with the Convention. I would like to point out that the European Union has also signed this convention. The 2017 European Union Regulation introduced the provisions of the Convention, which had not yet been included in the European Union acquis. On the other hand, Poland has rules on sources of supply of mercury, trade in mercury, mercury-containing products, emissions into the atmosphere, mercury waste and temporary storage resulting from both Polish law and the adaptation of EU law. Thus, a very small scope of rules on, in particular, the competent authority and the most important issue, i.e. the definition of a system of sanctions, remains to be completed. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, please adopt the Act on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury drawn up in Kumamoto on 10 October 2013 contained in the report of the Joint Committee on Printing No 1181. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u486	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anna Paluch will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u487	Thank you very much. High Izbo! I will not repeat the information I gave as rapporteur. I would like to point out that, as regards the issues which are contained in the provisions on the source of mercury supply and the trade in mercury, the Convention prohibits the extraction of basic mercury on the territory of the State Party, unless such extraction has taken place, it was not carried out on the territory of the State Party to the Convention on the date of entry into force of this Party. It is known that these provisions enter into force when the party ratifys the Convention. And if a party allows the extraction of basic mercury only if such extraction was carried out on the date of entry into force of the Convention, then for a period of not more than 15 years after that date these operations may be continued. In Poland, this provision will not apply because mercury has not been extracted from us. Another issue is the mercury-added products referred to in Article. 4. In accordance with the provisions, the Party shall take appropriate measures not to authorise the production, import or export of mercury-added products listed in Part I of Annex A to the Convention after the date of withdrawal specified for these precisely products, except where the exemptions are specified in Annex A, or where the party itself has sought and registered such an exemption. The provisions apply to product groups such as batteries, switches, relays, compact and linear fluorescent lamps, various types of mercury lamps, cosmetics, plant protection products, biocidal products, antibacterial agents, non-electronic measuring devices such as barometers, hygrometers, manometers, thermometers and pressure meters - such devices using mercury. In my club speech, I simply refer to the impact of these rules on our everyday life and on various sectors of the economy. We are also talking about legislation on measures to withdraw dental amalgam. Although the provisions of the Convention do not prohibit the application of these amalgamated fillings, they undertake to take at least two actions from the list of nine actions provided for by the Convention. These actions aim to phase out the amalgam. Another point I would like to mention is the production processes in which mercury or its compounds are used. According to the Convention, the production of acetic aldehyde has been banned since 2018, as mercury or mercury compounds are catalysts in these production processes, while chlor-alkali production will be prohibited from 2025. Art. 8 of the Convention, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Like I said, he's talking about emissions. I know the speeches are three minutes long, so I'll spare you the details. Let me just point out on behalf of my law and justice club that, of course, we will vote in favour of this law. Finally, I will note that the bill has only two articles, it has no preambles, it cannot be amended. One article talks about what the convention is and where it was signed and the other about the date of its entry into force. And what's more, it comes from evil, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Of course, my club will vote in favour of this bill. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u488	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Ms Agnieszka Hanajczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition, to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft Act on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, drawn up at Kumamoto on 10 October 2013. Ratification of this convention is primarily political and necessary from the point of view of Poland's image as a country determined to fight for a clean environment. All the requirements that the Convention introduces have already been implemented in EU law and are in force in Poland. The ratification of the Convention, which Poland signed on 24 September 2014, which entered into force in October 2017, will allow Poland to participate actively in conferences of the Parties to the Convention. It does not impose new legal requirements on Poland, but imposes some small financial obligations. Since the rapporteur, Anna Paluch, has exhausted the subject, she has said everything, and it is also a late hour, I am only pleased to inform you that ratification of the Minamata Convention is a necessity, there is no doubt, therefore my club, the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition, will, of course, support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u490	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Left Club will be presented by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u491	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The provisions of the Convention address in a comprehensive manner issues, in particular, sources of mercury supply, trade in mercury, mercury-added products, manufacturing processes using mercury or mercury compounds, mercury emissions and mercury compounds, mercury release, storage of transitional mercury and treatment of mercury waste, as well as the identification and evaluation of mercury-polluted sites or mercury compounds. The Convention establishes coherent actions and mechanisms at international level, defining possible ways of managing mercury in order to reduce its use and minimise negative impacts on the environment and human health. The Convention entered into force on 16 August 2017. The Convention has been signed by 127 States and the European Union. So far, 126 countries have joined the Convention and the European Union, which have become parties to it. This includes 25 Member States of the European Union. The countries of the European Union that have signed but have not ratified the Convention are Spain and Poland. I have a question: Why is Poland at the end of this number of countries of the European Union which have not yet ratified this convention? My club is convinced that the adoption of this convention is another good step towards liquidation, among others. deadly bombs, including mercury, which in our country operate almost 800, mostly left without any supervision. I'm talking about environmental bombs, among others. in Czechowice-Dziedzice and in Bydgoszcz Zachem. Contrary to what is said to be a green government policy, the number of these places has increased in recent years: from 768 to 818. The government must, using EU funds, launch an effective policy of remediation that is dangerous to the life and health of post-industrial sites that have been contaminated. I am convinced that the adoption of this convention is another good step, to which the government, on behalf of the club, I cordially urge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] There's nothing to talk about.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u492	Thank you very much. I am now asking Mr Andrzej Grzyb, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u493	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Act on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, which was drawn up in Kumamoto on 10 October 2013, took place on this Convention, involving inter alia. Polish. Of course, this process has the patronage of the United Nations, an international instrument that includes in a global way all countries that wish to become signatories to this convention. This concerns environmental issues, an important element that is used in industry, but which is also of great importance from the point of view of environmental contamination. We know how difficult the rehabilitation processes are and that is why it is extremely important for both international policy and the interests of such a country as Poland, which is also a Member State of the European Union, to be involved in the ratification of this convention. It should be noted that, since many times the reasons and regulations covered by the Convention have already been mentioned, I will not refer to this - that the Convention entered into force already in 2017. The European Union, becoming a signatory of this Convention, has adopted a strategy for dealing with mercury. At the same time, Parliament and the Council adopted the Mercury Regulation of 17 May 2017. Therefore, without being a signatory to this convention, we were covered by... This has been accepted as an acquis of the European Union. Yes, we have been covered by it, because the regulation of the Parliament and the Council of the Union directly applies to the Member States, so we are now notifying only what is already in force when we sign the Convention. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, I support this proposal. We will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u494	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mr Krystian Kaminski, who will present the position of the Confederate Group.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The main objective of the Convention is to protect health and the environment from mercury-induced pollution and mercury-containing products. The Convention has ratified 126 countries and the European Union, 25 Member States. Therefore, legal provisions already exist in European Union law covering the application of the Convention. The Convention does not in itself prohibit mercury extraction if such extraction took place before the date of ratification of the Convention by the various parties. It is only intended to prevent the emergence of new places where mercury could be mined. There is no place in Poland where primary mercury would be mined and therefore the Convention would not apply. Ratification of the Convention will result in Poland not being able to start extracting basic mercury after the adoption of the Convention, but there are no such plans. However, the explanatory memorandum of the Act states that ratification of the Convention will not have an impact either because of the existing European Union legislation which has complied with these provisions. It should be noted that the countries of the western part of the European Union, with the exception of Spain, have ratified the Convention, which means that they will not export mercury with a few exceptions. Western countries of the European Union have already ratified the Convention, which also means that mercury exports in the direction The East was practically out of place. Moreover, the transport of mercury between the West and the East is unlikely to occur, as reported by the mercury trade data. In connection with WW. Rather, it is not justified to worry about the deterioration of Polish transport because we do not participate in this transport. One effect is the need to pay back the annual contribution under the Convention. Contributions are dependent on national income and population. As the Ministry handed over to us yesterday, this contribution would amount to 38,5,000 a year on our side. Dollars. Each Party to the Convention shall, after ratification, provide resources for national action to implement the Convention in accordance with national policies and plans. Since there is no basic mercury extraction site in Poland, as I have already said, special programmes are not required to implement the provisions of the Convention. It should be remembered that the Polish natural environment is the common good of our citizens. Efforts should therefore be made to maintain the environment where possible as free from pollution, particularly from toxic elements and chemicals such as mercury and mercury compounds. To conclude, I believe that there are no obstacles to ratifying the Convention. Costs and financial consequences are almost zero. The Convention and its content are not a threat to any of the economic sectors in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u496	Thank you very much, sir. Two Members joined the questions. If no one else wants to take advantage of this option, I close the list, setting the time for the question - 1 minute. Mr Jan Szopiński, please. Ms Małgorzata Niemczyk will then ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u497	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! From this place, Mr Przemysław Koperski asked several times about the deadline for the destruction of the ecological bomb in Czechowice-Dziedzice. My humble person also asked about the actions of the authorities regarding the decommissioning of the ecological bomb after the plant Minister, when will the government project be presented, supported by funds in the budget, which will guarantee us all to clear Poland from places that have killed Poles for decades? Why do these environmental bombs, including mercury, which we are talking about here today, arrive in Poland despite the supposedly ecological activity of the Polish government? I ask you kindly to answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u498	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Małgorzata German.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u499	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking of environmental bombs, I'll also ask for written information about an organic bomb in Zgierz, because it's ticking, too, and you don't know when it's gonna explode. Limiting the use of mercury. Yeah, it's a very important thing. It's an element that's harmful. I am glad that we can finally end the use of mercury amalgam in our dentistry, which were filled with teeth as part of NFZ funded services. In private offices, as well as in Europe, this has not been applied for a long time. In Poland it was still a problem, the modern filling of teeth as part of services financed by the NFZ was not used. But since we already know that it will be withdrawn, please specify a specific deadline. When will the amalgam be eliminated from widespread use in dental offices? And the second question is, why only two points, not more? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u500	Thank you very much. The speeches and questions will be addressed by Minister Piotr Wawrzyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u501	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, we will address this in writing, as you have requested, but I would just like to point out that this is not a matter concerning the ratified convention. As regards the ratification procedure that has been under way for several years, I would like to point out, as Mr Grzyb said, that these provisions are still in force in Poland under the EU regulation. It is not enough that our provisions on matters governed by the Convention are, in some respects, even more restrictive than those provided for in the Convention itself. As for the strategy that you have been asking about, it is of course the result of this EU regulation and we are at the stage of its development, as are the other Member States. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u502	Thank you very much. The rapporteur gave up the opportunity to speak. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the renewal of the news (prints No 1144 and No 1171). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u503	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the renewal of the news, prints 1144 and 1171. Marshal of the Sejm in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm on 7 May 2021 addressed the above draft resolution to the Committee on Culture and Media for first reading. Committee on Culture and Media on 18 May this year. carried out the first reading of this project. It is a parliamentary project, a project of the club Lewis. The Committee on Culture and Media, after considering this draft resolution at its last meeting, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft resolution. In the course of the work, very minor substantive amendments were tabled, several legislative amendments were tabled and a draft resolution was recommended to the High House in a joint, consistent work. At the same time, thanks should be given to the Members who worked on this draft resolution, above all to Mrs Paulina Matysiak, who prepared and carried out the draft in the course of its work. The text of the draft resolution proposed by the Committee on Culture and Media is: The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 75th anniversary of the revival of 'News'. In April 2021, it is the 75th anniversary of the revival of 'The News' and the 40th anniversary of the release of the last number of this magazine. The letter was an emigration continuation of the prewar 'Literary News'. The letter was founded by Mieczysław Grydzewski, whose memory was commemorated by the Polish Sejm in 2020. In April 1946, thanks to the grant of the government of the Republic of Poland in exile, Mieczysław Grydzewski resumed publishing the magazine, which was now entitled 'News'. The first issue said: 'Our writings are open to writers of all camps, as we are serving on freedom of thought and speech. We wish to give our best intentions the opportunity to express ourselves to those who fight for free, whole and independent Poland." Those rules were kept to the very end. The 'news' were one of the most recent and most important cultural writings in the emigration. Several thousand copies were printed, but they were read by many more people, both in emigration and in the country, where they reached despite bans. The highest level of writing was decided primarily by the authors of the texts contained in it - the most outstanding writers and emigration publicists, with Kazimierz Wierzyński, Jan Lechon, Józef and Stanisław Mackiewicz, Stefania Zahorska, Janina Kościalkowska, Zofia Romanowiczowa, Ferdinand Goetl, Tymon Terletki, Marian Hemar, Józef Łobodowski, Maria Danilewicz-Zielinska and Zygmunt Nowakowski at the head. A literary award awarded by London's News from 1958 until the end of the 1980s. In spite of the formal closure of the magazine, the 20th century was the most prestigious literary distinction in emigration. The letter edited in London by Mieczysław Grydzewski, and after his death by Michał Chmielowiec and Stefania Kossowska, was the most important center integrating Polish emigration poets and writers, historians and critics of literature and art, regardless of political beliefs. It became a place of dialogue with world literature, a platform of Polish-Jewish agreement and a centre of free independence thought. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland hereby wishes to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the revival of 'News'. The Committee on Culture and Media requests the High Sejm to adopt this draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u504	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would again ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice this time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u505	Thank you again, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 75th anniversary of the revival of the news. The news is published in London, thanks to the support of the Polish government in exile, the continuation of the writing of the Literary News from the time of the Second Republic, created and edited by Mieczysław Grydzewski. The direct predecessor of the news was the writing of the Polish, Political and Literature News in France and England, edited by the actor, director and playwright Zygmunt Nowakowski during World War II. They wrote in it, among others. Ignacy Matuszewski and Stanisław Stroński were closed in 1944 as a result of the British-Soviet conspiracy. In 1946 the well-deserved Mieczysław Grydzewski resumed his writing and edited it for many years. Later, Michał Chmielowiec - poet, prose writer and literary critic, sibirak, editor of the Catholic Publishing Centre Veritas took over the role of editor. The last editor until 1981 was Stefania Kossowska - writer and journalist, working with Radio Free Europe for several decades. In the news, the greatest writers, poets, and publicists published at that time. Among them, one of the biggest Polish prosaics - Józef Mackiewicz, during the period of cooperation with the news team, author of the first two books on the Soviet genocide crimes on Poles in Katyn and the report on crimes in Ponars. Another is the great poet Kazimierz Wierzyński. It is worth remembering that they fought for independence in their youth, especially in the need of Bolsheviks. When Wierzyński died, the news wrote: With the deepest sorrow in our hearts we say goodbye to the poet of freedom, the creator of the unparalleled, conscious of his art and message, a faithful friend, a companion of works and fights, the best of us who left in unforgettable poems a testimony of our experiences and emotions. The news was a forum for exchange of views and publications for all - regardless of the differences in the worldview - who fight for free, whole and independent Poland with a pen. The environment led by Mieczysław Grydzewski, Michał Chmielowiec and Stefania Kossowska was called steadfast because they relentlessly and relentlessly rejected the communist occupation of Poland, defending the idea of independence. It is our duty to remind the editors of the news, to encourage the publication of works by writers and poets from the circle of independence emigration, to bring the literary legacy of emigration closer to contemporary compatriots, so that especially young Poles will be interested and interested in it. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the resolution on commemorating the 75th anniversary of the revival of the news. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u506	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Tomasz Olichwer to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civil Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing the draft resolution, interestingly, the Left, on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the revival of the news, the writing, which was an emigration continuation of the pre-war news of the Literary news. In the first issue of the magazine resumed in April 1946 by Mieczysław Grydzewski, the first editor-in-chief, there appeared a significant message and a definition of the character of the publishing house. I quote: Our writings are open to writers of all camps, like us serving on freedom of thought and speech. We wish to give our best intentions the opportunity to express ourselves to those who fight for free, whole and independent Poland with a pen. And that's what happened. In writings that dealt with political, anti-communist and anti-regime issues, as well as cultural and commemorative issues, they published their articles by the most outstanding writers and emigration publicists of the time, among others. Kazimierz Wierzyński, Józef and Stanisław Mackiewicz, Jan Lechon or Marian Hemar. The news appeared in London and was directed mainly to the emigration there, although it also reached the compatriots living in communist Poland. They were issued until 1981 and next to the Parisian culture of Jerzy Giedroycia were the most important Polish emigration paper of those times. As Stefania Kossowska, the last editor-in-chief of the news, contributed to the final decision to suspend the publication of the letter, in addition to too many practical difficulties, and I quote: the belief that the letter fulfilled its task. At that time we all lived in euphoria, surrounded by posters of Solidarity and felt, though still foggy, but with some hope that new ones would come and that it was time to give way to others. That's a beautiful sentence. Ladies and gentlemen! Members of the Civic Coalition support the resolution on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the renewal of the news magazine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u508	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mrs Paulina Matusiak to present the position of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u509	Paulina Matysiak. Mr. Marshal... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That's what I said. Matysiak, by the way, Mr. Marshal. Matysiak. Yes. Good. Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Left Club regarding the parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the renewal of the news. The Left Club passed a resolution last year so that 2021 would be the Year of News published in London first by Mieczysław Grydzewski and later by Michał Chmielowiec and Stefania Kosowska. Unfortunately, due to the large number of other important and interesting proposals, it was not possible to honor the news, hence the proposal of the commemorative resolution this year. The news was one of the most important emigration letters that integrated the Polish environment. Founded in the Second Republic of Poland Mon. Literary news, at the time of the war, was initially published in France and later in the United Kingdom. The Polish, Political and Literature news was resumed after a short break. News in 1946 and published until 1981. They deserve to be remembered because they were the most important center integrating Polish emigration poets and writers, historians and critics of literature and art, regardless of political beliefs, which is reflected in the words of the resolution. We also commemorate the news because of the fact that Poland is not only a state or political organism, but also a Polish soul, a Polish identity, a culture that lives in all of us, whether we live in a country or abroad, whether Poland is on a map or not, whether it is free and prosperous or suffers in captivity. To remember that Poland is a living idea that is constantly changing and at the same time remains a constant link between our history, present and future, between those before us and those who come after us. The Left Club supports the resolution commemorating the 75th anniversary of the revival of the news. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u510	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak presented the position of the Left Club. Mr Jarosław Rzepa will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u511	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today, the Polish Sejm is debating a resolution commemorating the 75th anniversary of the renewal of the news release, which was the heir of the pre-war news and the 40th anniversary of the publication of the last issue of this weekly. These words have been said today, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is particularly worth mentioning today one of the sentences contained in the first post-war edition of the news, which sounded and sounded very strongly in our ears: Our writings are open to writers of all camps, as we are serving on freedom of thought and speech. In consideration of the impact of the news, it is impossible to ignore the contribution made by the Literary News published in 1924 and 1939, which was edited by Mieczysław Grydzewski at the time. Initially, it was a literary newspaper with the advantage of information and column materials. Later, it contained mainly social, literary, cultural and political issues. In the 1930s, the weekly mainly represented liberal views. The letter did not have a political direction at the time, although after the coup in May it was strongly on the Sanitation side, but after the Brest Process it turned towards a democratic-liberal one. After the resumption of the activity on emigration, the letter continued its socio-cultural direction. Its importance for Polish culture is witnessed by such authors as: Słonimski, Tuwim, Irzykowski or Pruszyński in the Second Polish Republic, and from the times of emigration - Baliński, Hemar, Lechoń or Nowakowski. It also deserves attention granted from 1958 to 1990, i.e. nine years after the last issue, the award for the best Polish book published on emigration. The winners included such writers as Witold Gombrowicz, Czesław Miłosz and Marek Hłasko. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition and the Polish People's Party welcomes the initiative and thanks the Members of the applicant and the Library of the University. Nicolaus Copernicus in Toruń, because there are digitized, collected and organized collections of this publication in the Emigration Archive. Thank you very much. We will, of course, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u512	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 19 May. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. We just have to wait for the system to generate a list of people. Mr Rafał Adamczyk from the parliamentary club of the Left will be the first to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u513	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Allow me to present the position of the Bureau of the Management Board of the District Branch of the Association of Volunteers of the Republic of Poland in Będzin, which was adopted on 13 May 2021. Bureau of the Management Board of the District Branch of the Association of Volunteers of the Republic of Poland in Będzin and representatives of voluntary fire department units from the Będzin district on the draft law on voluntary firefighters. The provisions of the bill raise a lot of doubts, controversy and unrest in the community of voluntary fires. A particular controversy is raised by the provision concerning the creation of rescue and fire-fighting units of voluntary fire-fighting services excluding from the fire protection system of the unit which will not form the JRG, which will consequently lead to their elimination. These units will lose the possibility of financing on existing terms, the voluntary firefighters will lose the right to use the name of the firefighter, as well as the right to their own exit uniform. Many doubts are also raised by the proposal for approval of the statutes of the TSO by the municipality council, the control by the voivodeship services and the financing of trainings. In view of the many years of tradition and the role that voluntary firefighters played in the history of our homeland, and the dangers arising from the provisions of the project, the above-mentioned. the bill of the draft act is negative and we propose that it be rejected in its entirety. As regards pension allowances for firefighters taking part in direct rescue and fire-fighting operations, we believe that legislative work on the Senate bill on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Natural Persons Income Tax Act, which regulates the granting of the pension allowance for voluntary firefighters, should be accelerated. This position was adopted following the consultation of the draft Volunteer Fire Department Act on 13 May 2021. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u514	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u515	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today, May 19th, we celebrate World Family Doctor Day. This is an opportunity to remind you how important the knowledge and experience of family medicine professionals standing on the front line in the fight for the health of their patients play in the health system around the world. The family doctor is often called the first contact doctor, the first line doctor for a reason. That's what a patient comes to him for first advice. He is the first one to confide in his ailments. It is the family doctor who listens, proposes, encourages, warns and advises. Unfortunately, given many bureaucratic responsibilities, he does not always spend as much time as he would like. Now during the pandemic, the role of a family doctor has been rediscovered. There were new forms of action, distance advice, teleports. They are a very valuable tool in the work of doctors of all specialties, although as a doctor with many years of practice I know that nothing will replace a direct conversation with the patient. The World Organization of Family Doctors defined the password that day. This year it is: building a future with family doctors. Yes, health is our greatest good. On the occasion of World Family Doctor Day, I would like to wish all family doctors a lot of health, as soon as possible a return to normal working conditions, calm practice and personal well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u516	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Teresa Pamula, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u517	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 30 years ago, on June 2, 1991, the Holy Father John Paul II arrived in Lubaczów at the headquarters of the Archdiocese of Lviv. This historic visit was possible thanks to efforts and at the invitation of archbishops. Mariana Jaworski, who was then a shepherd of this diocese for 7 years. John Paul's Fourth Pilgrimage II, Karol Wojtyła, Pope of Poles to their homeland in June 1991 was the first after the fall of communism and took its scope, among others. cities: Koszalin, Rzeszów, Przemyśl, Kielce, Kraków, Czestochowa, Wadowice and my home town of Lubaczów. On 3 June 1991 about 200,000 arrived in Lubachów. persons. There were about 22,000 of them. Pilgrims from across the eastern border. The slogan of the pope's fourth apostolic journey to his homeland was the words taken from the letter of St. Paul's words were: "Thank God, do not quench the spirit." John Paul II appreciated the importance and importance of the freedom gained, but at the same time felt the need for a social prayer for a good use of it. It was a time when discussions were held not only about the shape of the future Republic, but also about the place of Christianity in a rebuilt state. The Holy Father tried to warn his fellow countrymen against the absoluteization of the concept of freedom, saying: It's a pretense. He's even enslaved. The papal message of this visit was based on a decalogue. He spoke of ten words on which the future of the nation, the state, Europe and the world depended. In Lubaczów there were very important words spoken by St. John Paul II : about the actuality of the vows of John Kazimierz, about the primacy of being over the litter, about celebrating Sunday and about holiness. During the papal visit to Lubaczow in June, the Holy Father emphasized the importance for generations of vows made by King John Casimir before the image of Our Lady of Grace in the Lviv Cathedral, and these were times particularly difficult for our nation. He also emphasized the uniqueness of these lands and the people living there. He said: Here, at this place, it is necessary to ask the Lord of Acts in a special way through the mediation of the holy patrons of Poland, Lithuania, Russia, to make it more powerful than anything in history, and especially in recent times, it has varied and divided, sometimes until bloodshed. And let all of this, all of our present and future (the bell), continue to look at Mary's maternal eyes from her ancient painting in the Lviv Cathedral, where King John Kazimierz, after the experiences of the flood, made his historic vows in 1656. I will also quote the prophetic words of St. John Paul II in my town: The economic reform that is being made in our homeland should be accompanied by an increase in the social sense and an increasingly common concern for the common good, recognition of the poorest and the most deprived, and kindness for foreigners who come here in search of bread. I cordially invite you to Lubaczów for the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the Holy Father's stay, to hear a beautiful song, the beautiful Star of the City of Lviv, Mary, and also to meet Our Lady of Grace in a copy of her image. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u518	Thank you very much. Now I ask you to make a statement by Dariusz Olszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u519	Dear Marshal, High Seym! During the period of increased political activity and planning of further development of Poland I would like to remind you of Polish history, about numerous figures, which should be an example of patriotism for us. Let us courageously draw from it and follow the teachings of previous generations. Notice their attitude, their work in fulfilling their duty to their homeland. The heroes of those years have often been able to sacrifice everything for one purpose, and it was a free, independent, sovereign Republic. Fortunately, we no longer need to shed blood, fight armedly or put ourselves in prison for caring for Poland and Polishness. Taking care of sovereignty and further development of the country should be an important aspect of political and social life. He is and will be an example of modern patriotism. Practical lessons from recent history and experience of our current reality must be learned to ensure that our objectives are effective. Among the key issues in the long term is the presentation of the history of Poland, events and forms of Poland, so that in society a positive attitude towards Poland's affairs, its position, traditions and everything that Poland provides, with knowledge of basic facts, problems and understanding of the events taking place. The great responsibility of rulers and institutions for this work. A good example of this, proven during the last war and during the first and second conspiracies, is the attitudes of young people as a result of their upbringing in the sense of patriotism and pro-state and pro-social activities. Today we need, especially during peace, good work patterns, compliance with the law, keeping promises, fair billing and reliable assessments. In the next term of the Polish Sejm, the Parliamentary Tradition and Remembrance Team of Cursed Soldiers was established, which could play an important and creative role in a situation where the 100th anniversary of regaining independence gradually passes. It is the work of this team that can give the sumpt for many further actions aimed at properly commemorating national heroes, showing historical truth and popularizing patriotic attitudes. It can be a source of proposals for changes in school education in the field of Polish history. Reforming curricula provides an opportunity to make appropriate adjustments [[♪ The bell ♪]] for a reliable and true presentation of events from the last century, presenting silhouettes, resumes and dramatic choices of many young people who gave their lives for free Poland. I also propose that representatives of families who participated in the last war, cursed soldiers' museums, Second World War, National Army, history of Poland and the Institute of National Heritage and other such institutions introduce representatives of families who participated in the last war, cursed soldiers or former NSZZ activists Solidarity with a voice representing or consulting to increase the representativeness of these bodies. Don't forget the stories of the heroes of those events, eyewitnesses or their children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u520	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Kaminski will now make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u521	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was approached by parents of dependent children with disabilities. Current legal solutions allow a situation in which there is no specialist doctor in the disability assessment team who knows the specific characteristics of a disability. In order for a doctor to be able to perform the tasks of a member of the disability panel, he must meet certain requirements. One of them is to conduct training in accordance with the programme developed on the basis of programme minima and to submit a positive test to verify the knowledge of the training area. Given the environmental signals of the caretakers of the disabled, this knowledge seems insufficient. In particular, parents of children in the spectrum of autism talk about this problem, although the subject of training of members of the panel provides for substantive issues concerning autism, this knowledge is not complete. According to the NIK report, one in 115 children is in the spectrum of autism. Not every one of these kids is alone. For many children with autism, it is necessary to point to permanent or long-term care or assistance of another person due to the significantly limited possibility of self-existence. It's so-called. point 7 of the Disability Decision. Usually, its indication means guaranteeing financial support, therapy or access to specialist doctors without a queue. At present, disability courts often receive paragraph 7 of the disability ruling by emancipating children. In this way, they ignore the advice of a doctor who knows the child best and is able to assess whether he needs to be cared for by another person because of his independence. No point 7 is to put a parent before a choice: work or child therapy? The chance of a child's independence in the future or the day-to-day maintenance of the house and family? The decision-making teams often decide to provide care only for children or people with disabilities, while autism is not visible. Autism is different from a typical way of human development, which reveals differences in communication, relationships, expression of emotions, learning and a diverse pattern of behavior. Some children will not be able to establish relationships with others, communicate their needs, express emotions without parental support. The introduction of an epidemic in the country has further complicated the situation. Disability groups may issue judgments without conducting a direct examination, which makes it even more difficult for people with a diagnosis of autism to carry out an objective assessment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why it is so important to understand the specifics of autism and to analyse carefully the documentation submitted to the panel. Therefore, parents of independent children with autism, along with the JiM Foundation, call for confidence in physicians attendings, so that certificates issued by doctors who know their children, simply have power, in particular, when there is no specialist in the team who knows the specifics of a particular disability. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u522	Thank you very much. I would now like to make a statement by Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u523	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 18 May 1943, the German police and Ukrainian troops pacified the village of Sharajówka located in the Bilgoraj district, during which 58 inhabitants were burned alive. Sharajówka was pacified in retaliation for the cooperation of its inhabitants with Polish guerrillas. At the end of November 1942. The Germans started a wide-ranging resettlement operation in Zamość. Its aim was to drive about 100,000 people out of this region. Poles, where German colonists were going to settle. The guerrilla troops of the Battalions and the Home Army tried to stop the pacific and displaced activities, attacked German economic and communication facilities, but this did not stop the occupation. On the morning of 18 May 1943, a penal expedition consisting of officers of the German military police and members of the Ukrainian auxiliary police from Biłgoraj and Tarnogrod arrived in Sharajówka. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, The Germans and Ukrainians entered the village, plundering livestock and valuable objects. They drove the population out of the buildings, gathering it in a square opposite the buildings of one of the hosts named Saniak. Men were subjected to brutal interrogations, trying to extract information about Polish guerrillas. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. 12 The commander of the penal expedition ordered to spend all inhabitants of Sharajówka to several selected buildings. Many people were gathered in the stable of Maciej Molda and the others were brought to the buildings of Józef Klechy and Stanisław Krzeszowiec. When all the victims were inside, the Germans locked the doors and windows, covered the buildings with straw and then set fire. Only one woman was able to get out, but she was shot instantly. Finally, the executioners set fire to the remaining buildings of the entire village of Sharajówka. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. The 15.30 expedition left the destroyed Only a few people survived the massacre, who managed to hide in the village and then escape under smoke cover from burning buildings. It was one of the bloodiest pacifications carried out during the displacement and pacification operations in Zamość. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u524	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewicka, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u525	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Waste is a nightmare of Polish cities, towns and villages. Thrown out in the woods, on the sideways of roads or wasteland, they became a public problem for which local authorities are responsible. However, local authorities, according to the appeal addressed to me by the Silesian municipality of Wielowoś, remain lonely with this problem. It is mainly their shoulders that have a financial responsibility for proper disposal of abandoned waste. Unfortunately, both the current legislation and the ways in which such projects are financed are highly inefficient. The transfer of financial burdens under Article. 26 Waste Act causes small local governments to find themselves in a situation that is very difficult to bear. In particular, this applies to less prosperous municipalities, such as: Silesian Wielows. The scale of the phenomenon is so high that the funds available under government programmes are insufficient. The transfer of the obligation to dispose of illegally held, stored and stored waste to local government units must be linked to the maximum simplification of procedures and the full financial security for this purpose. Otherwise, we are dealing with an ineffective legal solution, especially now, in the perspective of the progressive decoupling of local governments from their share of income tax. On behalf of the inhabitants of the municipality of Wielwieś, as well as the other municipalities concerned, I call on the rulers to take rapid action to resolve this problem urgently.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u526	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u527	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, On 16 May 2021, during the electoral meeting in Rzeszów, the Deputy Minister of Justice in your government, Mr.Marcin Warchoł distributed money from the Justice Fund to the Rzeszów firefighters from law, actually and morally to the victims of domestic violence and victims of other crimes. If the Prime Minister does not intervene and does not stop the illegal actions of the Deputy Minister in his election campaign, the victims of crime and the convicted who need support in social readaptation will in fact be robbed by the politicians of the Prime Minister's government. If the Prime Minister fails to act, the money of PLN 1.2 million will be transferred under the pretext of supporting the voluntary fire department. Prime Minister! A representative of your government showed in Rzeszow a taunting nerve. He publicly showed a mockery of Polish law and a total lack of respect for victims of crime, because he not only apologized to them for taking money for his election campaign, but also distributed money to firefighters without any legal basis, without formal decisions, without competitions, without concluding any contract and laying down the rules of spending. Did what happened during the election campaign in Rzeszow with the participation of the Vice Minister of Justice, The new Law and Justice Order, of which you spoke so much, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński? Let me ask you two questions, Prime Minister. Why has the PiS government still not developed such a system of funding for TSOs so that it is not necessary to take money from victims of crime and allocate it to distribute uniforms during election campaigns of right-wing politicians? If the Prime Minister's government decided to allocate PLN 1.2 million to the CSR in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship in 2021, will voluntary firefighters from my Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship receive the same amount in 2021? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u528	Thank you very much. We are looking for Mr Waldemar Andzel... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u529	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is devoted to Captain Witold Pileck on the occasion of his 120th anniversary. May 13th this year We celebrated the 120th anniversary of the birth of Witold Pilecki, a ZWZ AK officer, a voluntary Auschwitz prisoner and a participant in the Warsaw Uprising. Witold Pilecki is a legendary figure, his life was saturated with patriotism and heroism. He came from a noble family of independence traditions. In occupied Warsaw he co-created a secret Polish army. In order to gain German plans for concentration camps, he decided to enter the Auschwitz camp. He was the author of the first note on Nazi genocide. In the camp he created a Union of Military Organizations and a conspiracy network. In connection with the development of the camp resistance by the Nazis, Pilecki managed to escape from the camp in April 1943. He then actively participated in the war activities and in the Warsaw Uprising. On 8 May 1947, he was arrested by UB officers and then on 15 March 1948 - sentenced to death and executed. Bolesław Bierut refused his pardon. In the Polish People's Republic all information about it was subject to censorship. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u530	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u531	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A week ago we celebrated a sad anniversary - the 86th anniversary of the death of Józef Piłsudski. A prominent statesman, father of independence, the first Marshal of Poland, twice Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland. Today, from this place I would like to worship this great Pole, thanks to which we have free Poland, thanks to which we had Polish Legions. I would like to focus on the Polish Legions in a special way. Pandemic time gave me the opportunity to access materials, information and thanks to the work of the Military Historical Office I can share with you a great knowledge of the history of legions. I would like to recall the memory of my great-grandfather, the older firefighter Paweł Tulayev, who joined the First Brigade of the Polish Legions of Józef Piłsudski on 5 August 1915, where he began his service and work for independent Poland. He served in the 7th infantry regiment, and then, after his dissolution, he joined the 5th infantry regiment. The older firefighter Paul Tulaev, my great-grandfather, took part in all fights. He fought for independent Poland. When the year 1917 came, at the suggestion of the marshal, at the suggestion of the commander, Józef Piłsudski refused to take an oath of allegiance to the Emperor of Germany. I'm talking about an oath crisis. This caused that on July 16, 1917 he was interned in Chives and Benjaminów. Released on 25 October 1918, he returned to Lublin, but did not hide in his home, but continued to fight for free and independent Poland. In Lublin he participated in the disarming of Austrians. Then, in November 1918, he set out to the Eastern Front, the Ukrainian Front, to fight for the Eastern border of the Republic of Poland. My great-grandfather Paweł Tułayev, an older fireman (The Bell), was awarded the Cross of Independence by President Ignacy Mościcki on 20 July 1932 for his work to regain independence. Today I am proud that as a great-grandson of such a great Pole, a great person, a great patriot, I can stand here before you and remind you of this story - once again I will emphasize this - a great patriot, a person who has very much engaged in the work of regaining independence, the story of my great-grandfather. firefighter Paul Tulayev. Hello, their memory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u532	And now the statement will be made by Mr Jarosław Rzep.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u533	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll talk about the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say what is happening today in many areas of our economy. I'll start with the steel area. I do not know whether you know that in recent months the price of steel in Poland has increased by 100%. What this causes, ladies and gentlemen, on the market, especially in the case of companies that win in the so-called. Contests in the formula: design and build? It would seem like a lucrative contract. We don't know when we're gonna sign the contract to the end, and when we sign the contract and do it, we're not gonna have anything but bankrupt, ladies and gentlemen, because that's the reality we have today. Another example is Styrofoam - an increase of 30%. Ladies and gentlemen, in the woodworking industry, the price of raw materials went up by 50%. This translates directly into what we buy and what we will buy in the near future, because the market is completely deregulated unfortunately. Ladies and gentlemen, who stays at the end? We who are consumers of all this, because the companies that produce it, of course, will be the first ones to pass it on to us. That is why I point out, ladies and gentlemen, to some very dangerous trends that we are observing today. I'm talking about the construction industry, the metal industry, the chemical industry, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not talking about energy and oil prices anymore. We're going the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. Today the Polish state should pay attention to this, because Polish companies, Polish employees, are behind these prices. Let's hope it's not that we're going to witness the big, spectacular failures of companies by the kind of practices that take place today after the pandemic with regard to the economy that's carrying on. May it not be so, ladies and gentlemen, that we will not leverage ourselves, but fall as a result of such often speculative market practices. There's no government with us today, but I think whoever wants to listen to those words. There is time to take care of Polish companies, about what is happening in them today. Because we are talking about many programs, some even very much expect them, but hopefully we have something to do with it, and above all to take care of the interests of Polish companies. I'm very, very asking that the government take all this into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u534	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement by Paul Lisiecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u535	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For decades, co-operatives have been facing the problem of unregulated land under buildings built from their own resources in the 1970s and 1980s. 20th century In Warsaw alone it is approx. 100,000. apartments which are located in cooperative buildings standing on unregulated land. These land in the vast majority are in the hands of the local government. Despite the provisions in the Property Management Act, some local authorities do not pursue claims made by housing cooperatives and co-operatives and do not regulate land rights under cooperative buildings. It loses those who have cooperative rights to the place. The lack of regulation of land under buildings makes co-operatives deprived of the right to convert their cooperative rights into separate ownership. They are deprived of the possibility of establishing permanent books for their premises, and cannot sell their premises at market prices, as the value of these premises is about 20% lower than similar premises on already regulated land. In addition, such persons have housing but do not have the quality of the party in administrative proceedings. Unfortunately, local authorities are often not able to regulate the land for housing cooperatives and co-operatives, because the current legal situation is optimal for local governments. For example, the Warsaw government can collect money from the cooperative for the uncontracting use of the land, and the cooperative, in turn, transfers fees to residents. It is not on hand to regulate the land, because co-operatives could then convert perpetual use into property. The case should have been settled a long time ago, but unfortunately the local authorities do not want to do so. For this reason, cases often go to courts, where, for example, The Warsaw government requests that the cases be dismissed due to the statute of limitations, although the limitation itself has led to it. Unfortunately, the lack of a willingness to regulate land for the benefit of the co-operatives by local authorities causes the inhabitants of buildings to suffer mostly. This also means that there will be a need to amend the law, which will lead to land being owned by co-operatives under the law, without looking at large cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u536	Thank you very much, sir. The last speaker to make a statement is Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u537	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to appeal on behalf of the mountain districts. On the initiative of the Lviv district in Dolny Śląsk, measures were taken to include the counties in government aid addressed to mountain communities. It is about dozens of Polish districts, which must and should support tourism investments during the pandemic: construction of roads, construction of infrastructure, which is supposed to affect competitiveness and so that Polish tourism can return to its great years. I wanted to thank the authorities of the Lviv district for the initiative and say that this initiative has support for macroregions of the Eastern Sudetes, Western Sudetes, Central Sudetes. After all, such districts as Lwówecki, Lubanski, jeleniogórski, kamiennagórski, Wałbrzych or Kłodzki and a number of other districts deserve support. It can't be that this aid goes to mountain communities and doesn't go to powiats, because often roads and other infrastructure are common. I therefore call on the government to change its decision and to include mountain districts in its assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-19-sejm-30-1.u538	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 20 May 2021 at the latest 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 48]]
