ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u1	I would like to inform you that today there will be committee meetings: - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 9, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - at 3 p.m. 9, - Social Policy and Family Policy - at 3 p.m. 9, - Agriculture and Rural Development - at 3 p.m. 9, - Health at about an hour. 9.15, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping - at 3 p.m. 10, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 10.30, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 11, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 11, - Extraordinary for deregulation - at hours. 11, - Foreign Affairs - at 3 p.m. 11, - Administration and Home Affairs - at 3 p.m. 12, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism together with the Health Commission - at 12.30, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 13, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 15. In addition, I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Parliamentary Group for the European Union. Women's Sports - at 3 p.m. 10:30. Message. On behalf of the President of the Parliamentary Group, Diabetes Mrs Ewa Kołodziej and the Polish Association of Diabetes in the framework of the World Day of Diabetes in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland invite you to a free blood sugar test. All parliamentarians and employees of the Sejm and Senate Office of the Republic of Poland, who are interested in research, are invited at the time. Nineteen to the building U - ground floor, behind the position of the Marshal's Guard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u2	Thank you very much. The competent committees have submitted reports: - the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Treaty on Eurocorpus and the status of its Command concluded between the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, drawn up in Brussels on 22 November 2004, - about draft resolutions on solidarity on the protection of Polish borders and on the political and humanitarian crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border. The reports shall be printed in 1755 and 1774 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the questions. We're gonna start with question 11 because we need to move. Members Waldemar Andzel and Catherine Czochar of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about electronic solutions for citizens. This question will be addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Digitization, and will be answered by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Mr Janusz Cieszyński. I ask Mr Waldemar Andzel to ask you a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u3	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poles have a wide set of electronic solutions for citizens. Please identify key portals and applications to handle official matters without leaving the house. Please also show how many people are currently actively using the profile of trusted and other solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u4	Minister, I would like to invite you kindly and cordially to answer this contentious, albeit brief question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u5	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! To answer this question, I will start by quoting the statistics on the trusted profile. Today there are over 13 million citizens using this service. This is a service that allows you to use a remote identity, i.e. to identify yourself in relation to administration services at a distance. So this is exactly what you asked me, which is how you can do things without coming out of the house. Well, it starts with logging in through a trusted profile. It is worth pointing out that in the last two years, there were over 4 million new users in 2020, and in 2021 we already have more than last year, even though the current year has not yet ended. I think there's a chance we're gonna make it to 5 million new profiles trusted in 2021. When it comes to the most important functionalities that we can benefit from using a remote identity, these are primarily all services that are available in the mCitizen app. In order to use the identity card on your mobile phone - let me remind you that about 6 million people use it - you need to log in with a trusted profile. Today services are available including the possibility of showing ID, driving licence, registration card, COVID certificate, which can be shown when crossing the border and in situations where we need to identify ourselves with proof of vaccination, as well as the possibility of checking criminal points. Together with Małopolska we carry out the presentation service of purchased tickets within the framework of the Malopolska agglomeration railway. Together with the PKP, it is possible to present the purchased train ticket based on the Bilkom application created by the PKP. We also have quite ambitious plans for the development of this application, so that it resembles a transactional application more than a digital wallet, such as that we have. in electronic banking. The point is that this process can be implemented from A to Z within this mobile application. In addition, a number of services are used in e.g. health care - patient portal. gov.pl. You can also sign in to the services of the Social Insurance Institution via the electronic services platform - PUE ZUS. An application may be submitted e.g. to the office. Until recently, it was possible to apply for an ID card, today it is only available for children under the age of 12 who do not have to make fingerprints. You can send a letter to the office, that is the service of submitting and sending a general letter to a public entity, which is today the most popular service. In fact, we can make any letter by electronic means. Digital identity is the foundation of all further services and therefore we have ambitious plans for further development. It can be said that today it would be difficult to identify a resort that does not have any service to log in to using a trusted profile. All services can be found on the gov portal of the Republic of Poland. pl, which allows a unified way of presenting information on all government sites. There are, of course, pages of all ministries, a large part of the voivodship offices, several hundred health inspection inspectors. Further institutions also move to the portal gov.pl. Moreover, due to interest, we also launched a portal for local governments - portal samorzad.gov.pl. The municipalities concerned may launch their sites within this infrastructure. It is elegant, developed in accordance with the principles of digital accessibility, i.e. accessibility for people with disabilities, and also has the advantage that it is within our infrastructure, which provides much better protection against all kinds of attacks, and in terms of local governments - also savings in the development and maintenance of such a service. It is hard to imagine that in 2021 any institution of such a website would not have such a website. These services are, as I say, very much. I encourage all of you to visit the gov.pl portal and see what things we can do on the Internet. Before we go to the office, it's always worth checking whether we can do this online. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u6	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Katarzyna Czochar. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u7	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have an additional question. You just said that the Ministry, the Government of the United Right, wants to continue to develop this important application. My question is: Is the Ministry considering adding as part of a trusted profile an additional element that would enable citizens to be informed, say, in advance of half a year, of the need to submit appropriate documents in the passport office? As it turns out, because of the many responsibilities that our citizens have, they often forget that the validity of their passport ends because of different matters. Unfortunately, in many situations they are exposed to stress and to uninteresting, also difficult family situations caused by e.g. that they can't realize their dream vacations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u8	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u9	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This is a very good example of how we can develop such digital services. We are on the eve of legislative work - the conclusions really are legislative work - on the government bill on passport documents. This is the bill that Minister Paweł Chezernaker is running. On the other hand, I think that we can offer such solutions as much as possible. We also have a plan that comes down to the fact that we would like to disseminate this form of communication with citizens, because it is extremely convenient, and we see that expenditure on SMS in the framework of e-government services is increasing. In the last 12 months, the Central Computer Science Center spent over PLN 40 million on sending text messages. This indicates that Poles use these e-services and that it is worth working to actually offer additional opportunities to inform about some important events, e.g. on the expiry of the date of the passport. Therefore, we would like to propose to telecom operators a change in the billing formula for this communication so that it is dependent only on the number of subscribers who have the option and not on how many messages are sent. This infrastructure for text messages is very often something that has long functioned, often is depreciated, and the cost of sending more text messages, this marginal cost is usually close to zero. That is why we believe that this is a good idea, a good direction to move towards popularization of these services, but so as to change the accounting model, that the Polish state would have to look less at the cost of sending these messages as a limitation on the development of services. This will make it possible to create the solutions that you are talking about. From the technical, technological point of view, it is very simple and certainly to be done in a short time, and the demand for such and similar services is large and will increase in my opinion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u10	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you for your time. Let's move on to the next question. Members Jarosław Gonciusz and Barbara Bartus will ask a question about changes to the current national symbols. This question is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Mr Jarosław Sellin, Minister of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, will respond, whom I warmly welcome. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The current state symbols of the Republic of Poland regulate the rules of 1980. On the other hand, the recent change in the sphere of state symbols was linked to a change in the regime in 1989 and the restoration of the state crown. Since that period, many analyses and opinions have been received, among others. from heraldics or musicologists who indicated that necessary changes and adjustments should be made. The context of digitalisation also seems to be no less important, as it is necessary to introduce designs of state symbols in line with contemporary printing and graphic techniques, which in the 1980 Act is not covered. The Act of this year has, of course, graphical attachments, but they do not conform to today's technical capabilities. In view of the need for changes that I have referred to, I would ask you to approximate the draft amendment to the national symbol rules that have been prepared. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u12	Thank you very much. Minister, come in. I would like to invite you because of our work together six years ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u13	Thank you, Marshal. I can feel the support behind my back. [[It's in front of you too, Minister.]] But to this acquaintance from another state authority, Mr. Marshal appealed. Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Thank you so much for that question. I think that some discussion in the public domain is already taking place on this subject and it is worth really pointing out what are the main objectives of this proposed bill on the symbols of the Republic of Poland. This is a project developed by our Ministry, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, and as the justification for this project indicates, aimed at ordering the legal status regarding the use by state institutions, legal and physical persons of State symbols of the Republic of Poland, as well as the introduction of designs of state symbols compatible with contemporary printing and graphic techniques. This seems to be the main purpose of this bill. The current law of January 1980 on emblems, colours and hymns of the Republic of Poland and on public seals has been amended, but remains obsolete - it has been 41 years. It is worth noting that its implementing rules are even from 1955, i.e. from 66 years ago. In April 2005, 16 years ago, the Supreme Audit Chamber published a report on the use of State symbols by the public administration. It pointed to the urgent need to modernise the rules - 16 years ago it pointed to the urgent need to modernise the rules. We thought it was something we had to take care of. The bill is organized by the naming of state symbols, including the distinction between emblem and coat of arms, because today we do not have this distinction in legislation. It clearly indicates which entities are entitled to use the state flag with the coat of arms of the Republic of Poland, restores the flags of the Republic of Poland as a state symbol, and also encourages the flag to be displayed by natural and legal persons. The 1980 Act, perhaps for the time at which it was adopted, is written in such a spirit as to regulate the use of national symbols rather than to disseminate them and encourage their use. We want to change that spirit. At the same time, the project seeks to limit the abuse of State symbols for commercial and commercial purposes. In conclusion, it can be pointed out that the new regulation is fully concerned with the use of state symbols. In addition, the Regulation provided for in the Act will constitute a type of flag code containing guidelines on the handling of State symbols. The present law has graphical annexes, and this is what the Member mentioned, which do not agree with today's technical capabilities. It is not specified in the current standardized national colour graphics systems in the legally defined version of the digital emblem and the image of the eagle of the Republic of Poland. In practice, this means that it is not possible to protect state symbols. Most flags and emblems used today do not meet even the requirements of the current law. The color coordinates specified in the Act are indicated in the CIELUV system, which is not useful for digital graphics and is inexplicable in a simple way for other systems. This has also hindered the creation of uniform visual identification of the State and its offices, as has been repeatedly pointed out. The current legal situation differs significantly from that in other countries of the European Union, in which modern development of state symbols was adopted, linking the book of the State's sign and visual identification, including in countries where, as in our country, there were systemic changes in 1989 and 1991 and which simply regained independence. There, modern legislation on state symbols was sought everywhere. The Act introduces a colour pattern in binding graphic standards such as CMYK, Pantone, Textil, RGB, NCS, RAL, HKS, Web Color, and contains basic graphical attachments for flag and coat patterns that will be available in SVG, EPS, CDR, AI, PDF, JPG, PMG files. In the opinion of the Ministry, the new regulation fully adapts state symbols to new digital technologies, thus enabling them to be properly protected. The transitional provisions of the Act provide for a long period of implementation of the proposed regulation in order to reduce the costs incurred by the state budget and the budgets of local government units. The total costs over 10 years were estimated at PLN 147 million - 10 years. The implementation of the Act should be completed by the end of 2028. There is no obligation to exchange documents, uniforms, prints, considering that they will be withdrawn after consumption. In practice, this avoids additional costs associated with the implementation of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u14	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Barbara Bartus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u15	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The need for this amendment, as you said, has been recognised many years ago. Now it seems that, because of the techniques that they are, a really urgent amendment is required so that we do not have again in the future the situation that was with the pink balloons. The determination of colours, numbers according to the applicable possibilities is necessary. This amendment is also very, very widely commented on, among others. My local media wrote about it. Of course, my colleagues in the district criticized her very much, because we can't spend that much money. I would therefore like to ask, Minister, how the consultations are presented, because this project is in consultation. How are these consultations presented? And another, also very emotional, element of this project (The Bell), i.e. the change of the order of verses, the restoration of such order, also chronological, historical in which Wybicki wrote it. Will the Ministry sustain this? I would also like to ask if the Minister could make a historical reference to this - why this has ever been changed. Why the third verse and then the second verse... Why was Bonaparte according to our hymn earlier than the Swedish Deluge? Thank you very much. That's an interesting question, Minister. Answer me why Bonaparte was earlier than the Swedish Deluge. When the anthem was set, Wybicki's song was changed. Do you have any knowledge of the Minister? Because I don't.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u16	I'm interested in that, too. Maybe I'll keep an eye on it. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u17	I understand, Marshal, that there were two questions. Madame, I will try to answer both if I have enough time. (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The draft law in the framework of the public consultation was addressed to 30 organisations and placed on the website of the Ministry, so everyone could make some comments. Comments mostly flowed to the address symbols@kulturaisport.gov.pl - then we still had sports in the resort. Comments were made by 95 organisations and individuals. For the purpose of the public consultation report, detailed statistics will be drawn up by type of participant and on the topics addressed in these comments. The consultation lasted from 5 to 27 October, so it was relatively recent. We thought that all the comments that would reach us before 5 November this year would be taken into account. And that's what happened. The comments were made on the subject rather than on the participants, which resulted in a total of 285 comments. I would like to stress very strongly that none of the comments, and there were many, as I said, contradicts the need for a new law replacing the current rules, some of which were created in 1980 or earlier. At the meeting of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, it was pointed out that local government units also support this new statutory regulation and believe that a new law on State symbols should be adopted. And as for these... The main purpose of this law was to match the possibilities, you can say, codifying our national symbols, according to state-of-the-art techniques after the emergence of the Internet and various graphics in the virtual space, but of course there are also notes or ideas in this act that most absorb public opinion. We were guided by experts' opinions. Experts, historians, musicologists, the National Anthem Museum in Bedomina - this is a museum that deals with the history of our anthem, and it functions on my Kashubian land, because Józef Wybicki, the author of our anthem, was born and lived there - claim that originally Józef Wybicki wrote these verses in the order in which the chronology indicates it, while because of various errors of the 19th and 20th centuries these verses were moved. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that if, in the context of a public consultation or a dominant vote of representation of the people, which is the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, we consider that there is no point in digging it up, we will do so. On the other hand, if we consider it worth doing the will (the bell) of the author of the national anthem, Józef Wybicki, to make these verses look like he wrote them, then let's do it. But we won't insist on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u18	Thank you very much, Minister, for this flexible approach to the Polish anthem. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Agnieszka Hanaczyk and Adam Szłapka will ask a question about events of an anti-Semitic nature, calling for violence and discrimination on grounds of nationality, religion and sexual orientation, taking place in Kalisz on 11 November 2021. This question will be addressed to the Minister of Justice and will be answered by Deputy Prosecutor General Mr Krzysztof Sierak. I ask Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! Mr. District Attorney! High Izbo! Hanging in the gallows of pictures of Euro-publishers, the case of Jack Miedlar, a brilliant, highly co-financed by public funds Robert Bąkiewicz, national marches in 2020, in 2019, the slogan "The death of a leftist..." - here from the speaker I will not finish - and recent events, events in Kalisz, which are the quintessence of xenophobia, anti-Semitism, fascism. This is no longer a category of narration of scandalous performance. All these events are connected... Exactly, Mr. District Attorney, what's the connection? Helplessness, inability or, on the contrary, the silent consent of the justice system to such conduct? Doesn't Minister Ziobro see the need to delegate fascism organizations? And specific questions about Kalisz: Why did we have to wait until Monday for a response from the justice and arrest system, how is that possible? Why did Olszański go public on Saturday again in Kalisz and no one prevented it? Is it true that the D.A.'s office refused to allow these people to be arrested at the beginning? What action has the prosecution taken since Thursday on this matter? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. District Attorney, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u21	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to point out that hate crimes against national, ethnic, racial and religious differences and because of non-denominationality are pursued by the prosecution with full determination and that the preparatory proceedings carried out in these cases remain subject to constant interest of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. I'm actually going to ask you a question. With regard to the actions of the prosecution in relation to the event taking place on 11 November in Kalisz during the rally organized by Wojciech O., Marcin O., the prosecution acted here without any relative delay and according to all principles of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Evidence of this action by the prosecution - very quickly, immediately - is a calendar which I will present to the High House. On Friday, 12 November, the District Attorney's Office in Kalisz received a letter from the Kalisz City Police Command sending an official memo with audio-video recordings and a protocol to review the album with a transcript from the rally organized on 11 November in Kalisz by Wojciech O., Marcin O., with the participation of Piotr R., in order to get acquainted with and decide on further action on the matter. I would like to point out here that the police did not take any of the measures referred to in Article on their own initiative. 308 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which could have taken place during or immediately after the rally, since the current police observations would have shown that the behaviour of certain persons would have exhausted the signs of public complaint offences. On the same day, on Friday 12 November, the District Attorney's Office in Kalisz also received a notice from the President of the city of Kalisz indicating a suspicion of hate crimes against the Jewish people during the organized day before the rally. On 13 November, on Saturday, the District Attorney's Office in Kalisz launched a public appeal investigation on 11 November. in Kalisz for religious hatred and national differences and insulting a group of people because of their religion, their nationality, i.e. for an act of art. 256 § 1 of the Penal Code and Art. 257 of the Penal Code, while the investigation was conducted entrusted in full to the City Police Command in Kalisz. On the same day, on Saturday, November 13th, the D.A. took a look at the recordings provided by the police. He recommended Kalisz KMP to carry out inspections and make transcripts and other recordings recorded during the rally and march and ordered the hearing by the next day, i.e. until 14 November, possible witnesses. On 14 November, on Sunday, the prosecutor, after having read the completed evidence, issued orders on arrest and forced delivery to the prosecutor's office Wojciech O., Marcin O., Piotr R., who ordered the execution of the actions to the City Police Command in Kalisz. On the same day, the prosecutor also issued a decision to present to Wojciech O., Marcin O. and Piotr R. allegations of crimes consisting in public inciting hatred and violence against national and religious differences and insulting the Jewish people by words commonly regarded as degrading, i.e. It's an art crime. 256 § 1 of the Criminal Code, Art. 257 Criminal Code and Art. 126a Criminal Code. On Monday 15 November, according to orders issued by the prosecutor, police officers arrested Wojciech O., Marcin O. and Piotr R., who were brought to the District Attorney's Office in Kalisz on the same day. On the same day, on Monday, the D.A. announced charges against all three men arrested and questioned them as suspects. Following the execution of the proceedings with suspects on 15 November, the prosecutor asked the District Court of Kalisz to apply preventive measures to them in the form of a temporary arrest for a period of 3 months in order to secure the proper course of the proceedings, recognising that there is a legitimate fear of fleeing and hiding suspects and the fear of inciting false statements or explanations of other persons whose behaviour during the rally also exhausted the signs of the crime and whose identities have not yet been established and thus have not yet been carried out with their participation. Last night, last night, the District Court in Kalisz took into account the applications of the prosecutor and applied preventive measures in the form of a temporary arrest for a period of 3 months against suspects Wojciech O., Marcin O. and Piotr R. The Court of First Instance fully shared the prosecutor's argument on the need for isolation measures. Referring to your question about these false publications - I repeat: false publications - about the alleged blocking by the prosecutor of police activities at the Kalisz assembly on 11 November... [[That's what the police say.]] ...I would like to make it clear here, sir, that it is not true that the prosecutor has forbidden the police to stop the participants of the Kalisz Convention on 11 November this year. The D.A. didn't give police orders like that. In accordance with the rules in force, the decision to retain a person in such situations, namely in or immediately after the act, shall be taken by the police themselves, who shall inform the prosecutor immediately after the arrest (the bell). I would particularly like to stress here that there is no legal basis - I repeat: none - which would allow the prosecutor to give instructions to the police regarding the so-called. preventative detention of persons. Actions relating to the detention of a suspected person of criminal offence may only take place in situations strictly defined by the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as was done on 15 November this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u22	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mr Adam Szłapka. Please, Adam.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it is worth reminding you that Mr. Mateusz Morawiecki is a liar who has been convicted twice by a court order for lying. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You're the liar.]] Mr. District Attorney! Whoever blows the wind collects the storm. That's an old saying. Don't you see the connection between Mr Bąkiewicz's 6 million PLN funding and the increase in the number of such events? Doesn't the prosecution see the connection between dragging Mr. Piotr R. to the Solidary Poland Convention and taking him to political salons by politicians such as Zbigniew Ziobro and such events? After all, Piotr R. is probably a close friend of Zbigniew Ziobra. It's not a coincidence that they feel presumptuous, it's just your thoughtful politics. I want to ask you very specifically: are there any guidelines in the D.A.'s office? What about lenient treatment of hate speech, anti-Semitism? I'm going to show it on a specific example. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I just got a message from a specific person on my Facebook page: You f..., I'm gonna take you down. Do you know what the D.A.'s office told me? That the case should be dropped because it might as well mean: to quickly serve someone in the store. That's how the D.A.'s office works. I remember when in the Stadium of the Warsaw Legion there was an inscription: Modern, CODE, Fox, Oilwork - for you there will be gallows. The prosecution didn't see any signs of a crime either. You have led anti-Semitics, people who cause hate crimes, to be unpunished because they feel unpunished because Piotr R. is your colleague. Therefore, the question is: Doesn't Zbigniew Ziobro feel personally responsible for what happened in Kalisz? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u24	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Mr. District Attorney.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u25	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm amazed at the questions. There's no reduced procedure in the D.A.'s office for anyone, especially criminals who call for hate. [[I was asking about my case.]] I can't answer that, sir. Of course, I'm going to find out about this case that you're talking about right now, about you. Of course, I'll get to know these materials. If you'd like, I'd like to ask you a written question for me. I'm sure I'll answer that question. I would also like to tell you here that hate crimes are very strict, that I will use such a phrase, even guarded by the National Public Prosecutor's Office. In the District and Regional Prosecutor's Offices and in the Department of Preparatory Procedure of the National Public Prosecutor's Office, full monitoring of cases of this category is carried out, and most of these proceedings are followed up - I repeat: most of these proceedings are covered by top-level supervision in order to ensure their proper conduct, including the avoidance by prosecutors in areas or in the District Attorney's Office of refusal or remission because of the negligible social harm of acts, whether it is sometimes the investigation of these cases in this regard, when the prosecutor is dropping the case due to the lack of evidence of a criminal offence. Information relating to this category shall be transmitted to the department twice a year as part of this cyclical monitoring. The data is analysed by prosecutors, co-ordinators of this problem and once or twice a year, as I recall, this report appears on the national prosecutor's website. Therefore, Mr President, there is no procedure in the prosecutor's office to help anyone. The prosecution is fully committed to all kinds of crime, all the more so to the crime that arouses such public interest. Thank you very much. [[You expect me to believe that, Mr. District Attorney?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u26	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, please...]] But wait a minute...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u27	I ask you, Mr Marshal, to prevent and condemn the speech of hatred from Members who cheat here, lie and slander the Prime Minister of the Republic and the Ministers of the Republic. This is outrageous, Marshal, that you allow such statements. [[Applause]] Mr... The same people, then, when the journalists of Faktu, published information that they were prepared to murder me for a million zlotys, were silent. And now, Mr. Marshal, you let these people lie and cheat and slander the representatives of the Republic of Poland. It's outrageous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u28	Mr... [[I'm listening, Marshal.]] I allow Members to speak as you do. Although the rules on this matter would prohibit such things, I have allowed myself to speak. And now I will allow Mr Snapshot to speak because you called him. [[He's the one who caused it.]] I'm just trying to be fair.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! Thank you very much for allowing me to correct this strange, frankly, statement by Minister Antoni Macierewicz. I've stated the fact, Minister. [[What's the fact?]] Prime Minister Morawiecki in the election campaign was sentenced twice for not telling the truth. He's just a liar. And there's a confirmation for that, a court order. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's a lie. Don't cheat that anti-Semitism is being promoted by us. It's a Soviet agent.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u30	Thank you very much. Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the next question. The next question will be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska and Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska. The question will concern the actions taken by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the National Public Prosecutor's Office on the participation of local politicians from Bogatynia and the Zgorzelecki district in organized extortion of public funds and their participation in the production and distribution of amphetamines. This question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be answered under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers by the Deputy Prosecutor General, already known to us by Mr Krzysztof Sierak, who answered the previous question. I ask you, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A recent report by Michał Fui in the Superviser of TVN reminded us of the corruption scandal in the local government in Bogatynia. At that time, within three years, the National Public Prosecutor's Office held dozens of people, including the mayor, city councillors, the President of the State Energy Company, involved in tendering, financial fraud, extortion of public funds in connection with the illegal export of waste. Most of the detained are prominent local activists of the PiS. The question is why there's no indictment against any of the people arrested on the basis of the CBI investigation and the D.A.'s office so far. Moreover, Bogatynia is at the heart of a costly Polish-Czech dispute about the Turów mine, for which Poland currently pays EUR 0.5 million a day. Conflict and delaying the settlement with the Czech Republic, as it turns out, also have a bearing on the same corrupt arrangements. Why isn't there a deal with the Czechs? Because they're demanding independent experts. Why doesn't the PiS want them? Because of the mining disaster in the Turów mine five years ago, the biggest disaster in the history of discoveries in the world. The question is, when will the prosecution investigate the causes of the mining disaster and the financial and environmental consequences of this? Mrs Margaret Szmajdzińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u32	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Margaret Sekula-Szmajdzińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I only add to what my friend just said, that I am very sorry that Bogatynia, including her district of Turoszów, has become popular in Poland because of the problems that this city and municipality have experienced. And I'm talking to the residents, and I'm asking them if they know what's going on with the corruption and gangster thing, and I hear one thing: silence, nothing's happening. We Members have the right to know what action the authorities of the State have taken to do so. I just can't really hear any more people say, "A, people walk around on the street, those who should be in jail." [[♪ The bell ♪]] I apologize for speaking in such simple words, but our country is responsible for the end of the matter as required by the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. District Attorney, I invite you very kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u35	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In response to a question concerning the actions taken by the police, the Central Bureau of Investigation and the National Public Prosecutor's Office on the participation of local politicians Bogatynia and the Zgorzelecki district in organized fraud of public funds and the participation of these people in the production and distribution of amphetamines, I kindly inform you that these circumstances are the subject of an investigation conducted by the Lower Silesian Department of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Wrocław. Of course, this information presents only those circumstances and general findings which I can tell you without breaching the confidentiality of the investigation and without causing negative consequences of the evidence for the investigation. There are two fundamental threads in this investigation. The first one, which was the thread that initiated the investigation, concerns the activities of an organized group led by Andrzej S., Mark K. and Andrzej S., operating in the area of Lower Silesia, Lubuskie and Wielkopolska voivodships, whose members were involved in the manufacture, intra-Community acquisition and marketing of narcotic drugs and psychoactive substances. The second of the main threads of the investigation is focused on events related to so-called. official crime and includes persons living in the district of Zgorzelecki, mainly in the municipality of Bogatynia, functions and positions in the City Office and the Municipality of Bogatynia and municipal companies. These persons were to commit criminal acts involving the adoption and demand of property benefits in connection with their functions and positions, did not fulfil their responsibilities and did not exercise their powers, testified untrue in documents, including many irregularities in the operation of the City Hall and the Municipality of Bogatynia, related inter alia. with the performance of tenders. In addition to drug trafficking, members of this criminal group in Bogatynia also distributed tobacco and cigarettes in violation of the provisions of the Tax Criminal Act. In addition, they were involved in other economic sectors where they placed funds obtained from the sale of drugs. On the basis of the evidence provided, it was found that around 2010 two different groups merged their interests. This happened thanks to the well-known rich criminal Robert J., as well as thanks to Daniel F., the then secretary of the municipality of Bogatynia. The role of Daniel F. was in particular to use its powers and know-how to make available to members of an organised criminal group of premises and places where psychotropic substances were to be produced. It was also intended to facilitate and organise projects related to the investments of the members of the organised group, with the provision of financial resources. Another thread, the third one, is the crime of waste management. On 1 January 2012, the provisions of the Law of 1 January 2011 amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws entered into force. Under this law, the obligation to dispose of reserved waste has been introduced only in regional municipal waste treatment facilities. These regulations led to the need to transfer waste to municipal waste treatment facilities. It was established that the persons representing the City Office and the Municipality of Bogatynia and the Gminne Company of Purification Spółka z o.o. seek to avoid the need to pay fees for the collection, storage and treatment of reserved waste. Suspects Stella G. and Sławomir Z., representing the Gminne Cleansing Company in Bogatynia, recommended that their employees draw up inaccurate documentation in which the municipal waste received was deliberately given a different code, reserved for waste of a different kind, and thus the actual amount of municipal waste received from residents was lowered. These wastes were stored in places not intended for this purpose. As a result of the above actions, no environmental charge for waste management of at least 1300 thousand were paid to the Marshal's Office of the Lower Silesian Voivodeship. zł. Another thread of this investigation concerns the excess of powers and the failure to fulfil obligations in connection with the implementation of the investment Mon. The construction of an open swimming pool in Bogatyn. As agreed, construction works were to begin before the contractor was allowed to start work, despite the lack of a valid building permit. It is also apparent from the evidence in the case that the investment contractor was wrongly identified in breach of public procurement law. Ladies and gentlemen! It's not like the investigation's standing still. In many ways, seven indictments have already been filed against 13 persons suspected of crimes arising from the anti-drug law. However, these actions were not committed with the participation of local politicians from Bogatyn and Zgorzelecki district. The case has about 200 volumes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are currently 53 suspects who have been accused of participating in an organised criminal group in the Article. 258, committing offences under the Anti-drugs Act, accepting property benefits under Article. 228 k.k., exceeding powers, failing to fulfil obligations under Article. 231 k.k., certification of false - as I told you before - in the documentation of the article. 271, property misappropriation, fraud, mismanagement. As regards the topic concerning officials, they are subject to free prevention measures in the form of police supervision, property guarantees and a ban on leaving the country linked to the retention of the passport. There is still a temporary arrest in connection with the search for BOLOs and European arrest warrants. This was applied to those hiding from the law enforcement authorities of Władysław M., Mark H. and Paul C. A number of experts have been appointed in this investigation, which has already been under way since 2018. [[Listen to what the marshal says.]] We're waiting for opinions to come down. I'm sure the material will be gradually released, and it will end with indictments. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u36	Thank you very much. Additional questions. I see here in order: Mr Marek Dyduch and Mr Robert Obaz. Mr Mark Dyduch, please. Oh, excuse me, Mr Robert Obaz. Excuse me, gentlemen, that's what I was told. Whatever you say. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! No problem with the order. But there's a question for the D.A.'s office. After all, power is fulfilled at a certain time. The richness is not a big place. There almost everyone knows each other from the street, from the place of residence, from work. After all, this almost mafia or mafia act is abuse of power, this impudence of power in decision-making, this deception can be seen with the naked eye. The question is: Did the D.A.'s office take an interest in this only after the media reports, or were there any local reports that the D.A.'s office should take action to stop this criminal activity? How does the law enforcement and justice relationship work here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a second left, but because I've extended you to the D.A. because these are prosecutors' cases, so I don't see the point, I'll be honest with you, after asking questions, because there are different kinds of questions. That's very specific, and you're the prosecutor's attorney, too. Mr President, therefore, don't worry about this second. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney! You talked a lot about it, it was 2018, when the arrests took place. In fact, it's all the law and justice, all those people who photographed with the president Jarosław Kaczyński. What happens so far that in the material prepared by TVN Sławomir Z. said that he was calm about the sentence? It wasn't obvious at all that he had any concerns that he was going to be convicted. He's already investing more of his own money in companies, and he's supposed to be getting some funding from WFEA in the amount of 130 million, in a company in which she's 40% shares. What's next, Mr. District Attorney? When can we count on these people being convicted? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. District Attorney, I'd like you to come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u41	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As far as organised crime investigations are concerned, especially as extensive and extensive as you can see, as you can see, that all the garrets or basically all those working in the Richton are criminals, there is no way to end this investigation in a year, two, given the need to carry out activities, and especially if it is linked to crime and criminal and economic, and resulting from corrupt assumptions. It is difficult for me to answer the question relating to Mr. Sławomir Z., who is calm about the sentence. I don't know if he's gonna be so calm if the case is over and an indictment is brought to court. This court will assess the evidence and the prosecution's work. It's hard for me to tell if Mr. Sławomir Z will be calm then. As far as the first question is concerned, I also cannot comment on the fact that the D.A.'s office found out about these events because I do not know such details. If I may ask questions in writing, I'm sure the referee will address this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u42	Thank you, Mr. District Attorney. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski from the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition will ask a question on the fight against African swine fever. This question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development and will be answered on behalf of the Minister of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development by Minister Simon Giżyński. Thank you very much for your answers, Mr. District Attorney. It's nice of you to visit us. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u43	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Since the beginning of the year, 2422 outbreaks of ASF of feral pigs and 119 outbreaks of ASF of pigs have already been confirmed. Almost 2/3 of the country is covered by ASF zones, about 35% of the pig live was found in zone three. We have long been calling for urgent protection measures, for assistance to pig producers, for compensation due. Unfortunately, no effect. The situation of pig farmers is getting worse every day. The fight against ASF is a priority for the new Minister of Agriculture. In September this year. The Minister for Agriculture asked Commissioner Wojciechowski to mobilise the aid by the European Commission under the Regulation for emergency aid for pig producers in restricted areas in zone 2 or 3 as referred to in the Annex of the European Commission 2021/605. I'd like to know the results of these conversations. Question two. Agricultural producers raising and breeding pigs in restricted areas may apply for interest-free loans to finance outstanding commitments. By 1 October 84 contracts were concluded for 16.2 million. The money's gone, the loans are gone. Will they be new and when? Farmers with outbreaks, their neighbors, who have been slaughtered pigs, are waiting to resume production. Can they count on compensation for the rest of their stay? They don't have any income at the moment. A few months they don't have pigs in, and the fees are - what about them? Will there be a change in the rules for granting aid to compensate for the amount of reduced income obtained by the pig producer? The new rules do not include holdings where the production profile has been changed. Question five, last one. At the meeting of the ASF subcommittee, it was found that in seven counties in Poland, in which production exceeds (Dzwonek) 150 thousand. pieces, there will be a very strong depopulation of wild boars, among others. This is what happens in Iława and New Town of Lubawski. What are the recommendations for hunters in these counties? Let me remind you that there were 240 thousand in Poland. pig-producing holdings and only 80 are left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u44	Thank you very much. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm in a pretty difficult situation. It's not because these questions are scary or I have something to hide or we're afraid of that kind of question. They're detailed. But I'm in a position, Mr. Marshal, in a situation... This is about breaking certain rules, because we have received three questions from the Member in accordance with all the customs and procedures in force, which I will read: What is the number of pig flocks today and how much has it fallen from year to year? Does the farm recovery programme after ASF actually work and do farmers receive sufficient financial support? The third question is: How many resources have been mobilised in the framework of the activities of the RDPs in the years 2014 and 2020? I am prepared in accordance with the rules of the game to answer these questions, plus, of course, forever remaining in a certain freedom an additional question. And I think that it must satisfy you at least to that extent, and we will, of course, answer all five of these questions in writing, because it is obvious and acceptable at any time. So I answer the first question, sent in accordance with procedure. What is the number of pig herds now, and how much has it decreased from one year to another? We've been here since 2014. The number of herds in 2014 was 179 315. Number of pigs - 10 699 989 pieces. Then the number of herds decreased. In 2015 - 173,5 thousands, in 2019 - 115,5 thousand, in 2020 - slightly over 97 thousand. and in 2021, according to data from the end of June this year - almost 92 thousand. In contrast, the number of pigs remained between 10,5 million units throughout the period 2014 and 2021. In the last two years - 10 740 thousand, this year, also until June - 10 544 thousand. with a slight rounding. These are, of course, naked numbers that each of us here will certainly interpret in a very similar way, but this trend cannot shock or surprise. It is important that the number of pigs is maintained and that the number of herds is dependent on progress and bio-insurance. It is quite clear that bio-insurance rigors in some sense are moving forward - and so it was in all countries that also went ahead, for example. in Spain, they point to those farms which are able to cope with the increasingly higher bio-insurance requirements in this competitive fight. Because that's the reality of fighting disease, otherwise it can't be. After all, small or smaller farms, or those which they produce, are in the state of 2, 10 pigs, are unable, due to probably financial inability, to meet all bio-insurance requirements and to compete on the market. This is an objective situation. We have over 90,000, 92,000 at the moment. Out of here. Spain, which is the largest producer in Europe, has about 80,000 of these stocks. and reached a very high level of bioinsurance, legendary, true, restrictive level. But at the same time it remains a huge, huge power in the market. And I think this process is, in some sense, a role model for us. Of course, there is still a very strong rooting - and praise to God that it is - of the cultural nature of pig production in this dimension of the smaller farms. Question two: Does the farm recovery programme after ASF actually work and do farmers receive sufficient financial support? Because I'm dramatically running out of time... I can answer unambiguously, because here I have a detailed study of this topic in very many points, that the program actually works using this language. Farmers are given these legal and financial opportunities, which we are expanding. We think all the time. the conditions for compensation for loss of income. There's this. more and more and higher rates are in place in this regard. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I have a detailed answer prepared, which I will send to you immediately, of course. And last question: How many resources have been mobilised under the activities of the RDPs in 2014 and 2020? This is very brief information, Mr. Marshal, technical, so I'm asking you to complete. Please. Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Simon Giżyński: As part of the investment to prevent the destruction of production potential, the limit on measures to prevent the spread of African swine fever is EUR 96 856 436. The farmers submitted 776 aid applications for PLN 385 million at that time. Nearly 5,000 have been contracted. applications for PLN 225 million and paid PLN 115 million for 2370 beneficiaries. This is the state of November 7th, recently counted. Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Simon Giżyński: This is about everything I'm able to say now, with certain changes in the rules of the game. And as for the answers to these five questions that you have been gracious to formulate, they will be delivered to you in the near future.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u46	Thank you very much, Minister. Do you have an additional question, sir? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u47	Minister! I have one more question: Is the Ministry considering that farmers on farms where outbreaks have erupted and there is no production at the moment, and for a few months farmers have no income - even their income? Is the Ministry working on it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u48	Thank you very much. Minister, is the Ministry working on this? We're looking into it right now. We're about to know if the ministry is working on whether or not it's gonna be working yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The aid is located in so many places that I had to make sure that I gave the correct answer to the question as intended by the Member. Aid to pig producers, in view of the existing ban on the holding of pigs or their introduction into the holding, is now at a level that we will systematically expand. Because it's helping up to 50 in a pack and it means 36 gr a day per piece. There will be a significant improvement in both indicators - quantitatively as regards the number of herds in the herd, and will increase, indeed, the daily rate. Work goes in that direction. Soon you will get to know their results meticulously. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u50	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next question that will be asked by Members Grzegorz Lorek and Krzysztof Janusz Kozik from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. This will be a question about Poland's position at the climate summit. The question is addressed to the Minister of Climate and Environment. Mr Adam Guibourgé-Czetwertyński will answer the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment. I ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek to ask the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u51	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's another climate summit behind us. In recent decades, our country has done a lot to reduce emissions and we are even less than 1% in Europe. I would like to say that Germany is over 2%, China is almost 35%. Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the position of Poland presented at the climate summit in Glasgow.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u52	Thank you very much. Minister, come in. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I'd fill it in coherently so it doesn't take time.]] But you're gonna drop the extra question? [[Yeah, yeah, yeah.]] Great. Excuse me. Hold on a second, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u53	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would also like to ask about issues related to clean technologies, CO2 capture and processing. Because I think that to all of us, both the environmentalists of Greta Thunberg and me, the environment that I represent, that is, the miners and energyists, care about the clean air, about reducing emissions. Therefore, I would like to ask whether there are also talks in the context of climate improvement talks about a low-carbon policy in the area of CO2 emissions, the construction of CCU, CCS installations that would help us reduce CO2 emissions. Because as you know, there's no way out of this gas. This is the gas that has been with us since the very beginning of humanity, and even before that, so I think we need to get used to living with this gas. We can also try through technical methods, as well as the science that should help us in doing so, to reduce the impact of CO2 on the climate. I would like to ask whether the Polish government will carry out projects here as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u54	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. You're welcome, Minister. Right after your answer, we'll move on to the next question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for your questions about the Glasgow site conference. What important or important happened there? From our point of view, it is probably important to complete the Catholic principles, implement the Paris Agreement. In Katowice, the vast majority of implementing rules for the Prague Agreement were agreed. One chapter on international markets failed to close in Katowice. Couldn't close it during the next COP in Madrid, but managed to close it in Glasgow. At the same time, it was possible to agree on a table, reporting formats for all parties, which would ensure transparency and comparability of activities at global level. This was the work commissioned in Katowice as part of the decision that we made during COP, which took place in Poland. What is certainly an amazing success for us and follows the dynamics of the talks we initiated in Katowice, that is to say, taking into account the concept of fair transition in the context of climate policy. It is also a growing awareness that climate policy must be pursued in a way that does not create additional burdens for society, especially for the poorest households, especially for regions that are currently most dependent on fossil fuel extraction. Such words also appear in the decisions taken in Glasgow that the transformation must be carried out in a fair way, i.e. in a responsible, planned manner, which will take into account the need to replace existing high-carbon powers with new zero-carbon solutions and to carry out the transformation in such a way as to ensure further growth prospects. also for coal regions and good jobs in the new economic sectors that will develop. I will now refer to the second question and to the topic of CO2 capture technology. I absolutely agree with you that there will be areas of human activity where emission reductions will be very difficult to achieve. There are some areas of our business, our economy, where there are alternatives to zero-emission solutions that we will bet on. We want to continue to develop our energy towards zero-carbonity. Such a source is e.g. nuclear energy, which provides stable energy supply in the absence of CO2 emissions. However, these are multi-annual investment processes. This can't happen right away. In the meantime, of course, we need to reduce these emissions, and that is why we are considering both natural methods, i.e. the absorption of forests, which we are particularly interested in and which is the subject of the declaration made by us in Katowice and the declaration to which we joined in Glasgow, stressing that the absorption of forests is a cost-effective and economical tool to reduce our emissions, as well as existing technical solutions, such as CO2 capture and storage, for example. In underground storage. We are working on such solutions in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. We work in a spirit of agreement with the social side, within the framework of a social agreement, which sets out particularly important directions for the development of technologies of the mining sector in Poland. At the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Minister Dziadzio is working on it, who is a geologist. He is working on identifying the potential for developing and injecting CO2 in Poland. These will certainly be solutions that will be needed to reduce emissions in those sectors where no other solution can be used, another way to reduce CO2 emissions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u56	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Marcin Kierwiński and Mrs Zofia Czernow ask on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Coalition on State action in connection with information about the disaster in the Turów mine and the lack of consequences for those who contributed to the disaster. This question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, who authorised the Secretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets of Minister Maciej Małecki to reply. I did great. Mr Marcin Kierwiński is asked to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u57	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I am very sorry that this question will be answered by the Minister representing the Treasury, not by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, because in the Turov case, about what is happening in Bogatynia... In fact, this is a matter of all the pathologies of the PiS government. We're talking about stupidity, nepotism, corruption, scandals. A moment ago, Mr. District Attorney, Deputy National Attorney, talked about an organized crime group operating there. This would probably be a sufficient statement describing what is happening there, but this organized crime group is located very close to the centers of power. We are also dealing with pure political corruption, buying the votes of Members here in the Chamber, so that the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki can have a majority. The tragedy in this whole situation is that, Minister, for this incompetence, for this scandal, for this organized crime group, as the deputy national prosecutor said, Poles are paying for it. After all, we pay huge penalties for the Turks every day. We know that the environmental disaster in Turów has already cost about PLN 5 billion, because this is what is worth deposits that have been left in the way of your incompetence. No carefree falling asleep. I have a very simple question. Don't be nervous. You probably have a lot to say about this, but you should answer to other authorities. What have you done as a government of the PiS to put an end to nepotism, incompetence, to settle these issues? What's the D.A. doing about it? What conclusions have you drawn? Has anyone suffered the consequences? Has anyone been fired? Did you, as the Polish Government, as the Ministry that oversees the State Treasury, refer at least one matter to the prosecution? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It seems that you do nothing at all, that you allow this problem to grow, that you allow Poles to pay for your incompetence. They will pay because the issue concerns a strategic area of action of the state. Your incompetence Poles will see in electricity bills. This isn't the first of its kind. We all remember what happened in Ostrołęka. Besides, Mr Mazowsze, the Minister, knows this very well. When are you gonna start jumping to conclusions? When are you finally gonna put incompetent people, people who commit crimes, in court? [[Applause]] [[You guys were supposed to...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u58	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister. Minister Maciej Małecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question concerns the event of 2016, exactly from 26 September, when approx. hours. 21 first signs of a landslide process occurred at an internal junkyard in Turów. As a result, significant quantities of earth masses were lowered. These landslide movements occurred from 27 to... September 20th also... According to the applicable regulations, each brown coal mine, including the Turów mine, conducts mining works on the basis of the traffic plan and technical documentation of the construction of the quarry. The traffic plan of the mining plant shall be approved by the Director of the District Mining Authority. The technical documentation for the formation of the dump shall be an internal document and shall be in accordance with the approved traffic plan. This documentation shall be controlled by the Director of the District Mining Authority. The compliance of mining works with approved documents, i.e. traffic plan and technical documentation for the formation of the landslides and technical projects, as well as with periodic expert assessments of the state of the landslides, is controlled several times a year by the District Mining Office in Wrocław and the Higher Mining Office in Katowice. As a result, no one was injured. The causes of the event were multidimensional and interacted. In order to investigate the causes and effects of the landslide in Turów, the Polish Energy Group set up a committee to analyse the circumstances and causes of this geotechnical event, and the President of the Higher Mining Authority appointed a advisory and advisory team to analyse certain issues related to the operation of the mining plant in Turów. Immediately, on the same day, a staff of rescue operations was appointed under the direction of the branch director. We are talking about 26 September 2016. This staff carried out activities directly related to rescue operations to minimise the effects of the incident, including ensuring the safety of the general health and life of people and the assets of the company. In parallel, a team of natural hazards worked, to which outside experts were also appointed in addition to the mine services. The team served as an advisory body for the campaign staff. Following the completion of the rescue operation and the expiry of the landslides movement on 3 October 2016, a committee was set up to analyse the circumstances and causes of the geotechnical event on the internal dump in the brown coal mine in Turów. A number of independent geotechnologies and hydrology experts were drawn up for the work of the committee to identify the circumstances and causes of the landslides. The authors of these studies were the Mining and Hutnicza Academy in Cracow, Wrocław University of Technology, Science Foundation and Mining Traditions at AGH. In order to verify the correctness of the technical solutions used and the operation of the services in the Turów mine, PGE GiEK commissioned AGH to perform an audit. AGH completed the documentation in November 2017. expertise in technical solutions used in the mining plant of Mine of Brunatny Coal Turów. No negligence has been identified which could affect the safety of the operation of the mining plant and no violations of the provisions of the Law - Geological and mining laws and regulations related thereto have been found. The choice of technical solutions has also been assessed positively. A team whose task was among others: an explanation of the circumstances and causes of the disaster, ended its operation on 14 June 2019 and assessed that, despite the collapse in accordance with the applicable regulations and the best technical knowledge, landslips had occurred. The team's position was in line with the results of a number of experts in this field. The mining supervisory authorities have also carried out investigations. The director of the district mining office began to control the operation of the plant and supervised the operation of the rescue operation in the Turów mine. The Director of the District Mining Authority has issued a number of decisions to suspend the operation of the plant in the landslide area and to protect the operation of the mining plant in an area not covered by the landslide. He also ordered additional diagnosis and analysis of geology and geotechnologies. Pursuant to the order of the President of the Higher Mining Authority of 7 October 2016, a advisory and advisory team was set up to analyse certain issues related to the operation of the mining plant in Turów. The task of the team was to verify the rules for carrying out mining works on the territory of the internal storm in Turów belonging to PGE, to prepare an opinion on the possibility of safe operation of the works in the area of the site. The team completed its work on 9 June 2019. As a result of the work, an opinion was drawn up on the possibility of carrying out works safely on the territory of the turów internal landslide, which took place in September 2016. Experts from the Higher Mining Authority also made recommendations to prevent similar accidents in the future. The recommendations of the team of the Higher Mining Authority were generally in line with the recommendations of scientists from the Mining and Steel Academy and the Wrocław University of Technology, who carried out documentation on the causes of the landslides and further guidelines for operation. I stress: all the recommendations of the committee appointed by the President of the Higher Mining Authority have been fulfilled and their implementation has been monitored by the Director of the Regional Mining Office in Wrocław. Regardless of this, on 15 February 2017, the Director of the District Mining Office in Wrocław issued a judgment on a dangerous event that took place on 26 September in Turów. The judgment provides a description of the conduct of rescue operations and their assessment. It follows from the decision of the mining authority that no infringement was found in connection with the incident at that stage of the investigation. The judgment also contains proposals to prevent similar accidents in the future. Thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: In view of the conclusions of the expert opinion, studies and opinions, there is no reason to believe that the resulting landslip was caused by a human factor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u60	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Very quickly and briefly, the Minister explained the case of the mine disaster, but I wanted to ask, because this disaster was very well hidden from society, and a lot of bad things happened there. It's not just a landslide, it's also the destruction of more than 200 mining equipment, the flooding of the deposit. Have the causes of the disaster been identified? Who did it, and who suffered the consequences? To what extent did the PiS HR policy influence this, where responsible tasks were entrusted to people without proper preparation? And I want to ask you about the consequences: What have you and the public suffered in connection with this disaster? Is it not the main cause of the dispute with the Czech Republic, where we bear the huge costs of paying penalties? I do not believe that this case (the bell) has been thoroughly investigated and should be dealt with by the prosecution and the Supreme Audit Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u62	Thank you very much, Member. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I cannot agree with the fact that I cannot agree with the Member's statement that this event has been hidden from the public in Turów since the landslide to the public has been systematically and continuously transmitted. During this period the Polish Energy Group conducted a very transparent communication policy, all communications were also sent directly to mailboxes to journalists who were interested in this matter. On 29 September 2016, i.e. 2 days after the creation of the landslide, a press conference was held in the Turów mine with the participation of PGE GiEK and the director of the Turów mine at that time. During this conference, many questions were answered by journalists. Moreover, information on the landslide was published in stock reports and in the annual financial statements of the PGE Group for 2016 and in the Management Board's report of PGE GiEK for 2016. These documents are widely available. Once again, the experts of the Mining and Steel Academy, the Wrocław University of Technology and the Higher Mining Office have not found violations of regulations and human factors in this event. Of course, this information was made public, there was a very transparent communication policy. As for the electricity prices that you care about, I would like to point out that it is the Polish government that operates in a specific context that Poland operates in a specific context in the field of climate policy, where climate policy is given to the European Commission. The situation on the electricity price market is a result of the action taken by the European Commission on these radical climate restrictions. We are very regular in keeping with unrealised plans such as the plans of Commissioner Frans Timmermans. The implementation of these climate plans will result in the depletion of society, the loss of jobs throughout the European Union. And let me remind you that the dominant party in the European Parliament is the European People's Ringing Party, headed by Donald Tusk, and it is formed, among others, by Donald Tusk. MEPs of the Civic Platform and PSL. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u64	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Mariusz Trepek and Andrzej Gawron from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the Academic Legion project. This question will be answered by Minister Włodzimierz Bernacki, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science. Please, Mr Mariusz Trepka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u65	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the academic year 2021/2022 the fifth edition of the Academic Legion project will be implemented. This is a very interesting project aimed at students interested in professional service. It includes two parts of training, theoretical and practical, based on studies prepared by the Ministry of National Defence. So far, 16,000 have participated. students from all over the country. This project is very interesting and needs to be promoted so that students can benefit from it, because I believe that the person who undergoes military training will acquire this skill, will be useful to our homeland. Therefore, Minister, I have these questions: What exactly is this project? What amount will be allocated to the implementation of the current edition and what is the recruitment for the fifth edition of the Academic Legion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u66	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Academic Legion is on the one hand it is a programme implemented by the Ministry of National Defence, and on the other hand it is a project implemented by the Ministry of Education and Science. The decision to launch this programme by the Ministry of National Defence was made actually in 2018, in December 2018. An agreement was also signed between the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Education and Science, then the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, in the field of theoretical training at universities. As far as what is directly related to the training programme is concerned, this project is currently being implemented under the Ministry of National Defence programme, on the basis of Article. 404 Laws - Law on Higher Education and Science. This article states that the Minister responsible for higher education can finance projects of particular importance and importance, in this case the theoretical training project. Universities implement this theoretical programme within two courses - basic and petty. This training is theoretical in nature, so it can also be carried out by lecturers or academics of individual universities. I would like to remind you that in civil schools, courses are being carried out. security, national security or external security, so here this theoretical dimension is fulfilled. The basic course is kind of an initial course. The Petty Officer's course concerns those who will pass this theoretical course in advance or pass the proper exam and can be carried out by them. Both theoretical, basic and sub-office courses last 15 hours. Those 15 hours consist of 13 hours of training and 2 hours are intended for the exam. The exam is conducted by military top-ups commands, so in cooperation directly with higher education institutions. Where can such training take place? It can be implemented, and it is, in all those schools that are directly supervised by the Ministry of Education and Science. These are both public and non-public schools. As far as non-public schools are concerned, the condition is that the number of students in a steady state is higher than 200. So it's an offer that's really addressed to all universities under the Ministry of Education and Science. I would also like to say very clearly that this programme from the perspective of the Ministry of National Defence, and the project from the perspective of the Ministry of Education and Science - is such and programme, and a project in which what we might call synergy appears. Why? First of all, the Ministry of National Defence is interested in obtaining young people who gain an education either at the engineering level or at the level of the second degree, so Master's degree, people with very sometimes narrow specializations, especially useful in later military service. Let me add that this project can only end on a theoretical level. The theoretical training ends on 30 May. The second stage is training. Already in designated military units. So the Ministry of National Defence has the chance to get really great specialists who can be useful, whether at the level of a private soldier or a petty officer, but also there is the possibility to continue training at the level of officers - it is already implemented by the Ministry of National Defence. This is also important and important from the point of view of universities, because it is important and important to shape in young people what we can call not only patriotism, but also patriotism understood as fulfilling duty towards the country, towards the nation, towards the state. So that this synergy exists here. We're currently number five. editing. The deadline for submitting applications is until 20 November, but in fact, formally, until 22 November, because 20 November is Saturday. Therefore, for this year, for this year - the academic year 2021/2022 - is dedicated, 1 million PLN is secured (Dawn). So far, 3059 thousand have been spent in these four editions. zł. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u68	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for this quite detailed information. I understand that the deadline here - 22 November - gives the schools that would like to participate in the program the opportunity to apply. I'd like to know what the information campaign looks like. Is it conducted only in higher education and is it on the shoulders of the school? Is there any additional means to launch an information campaign on these possibilities? I also have a question about the officer module, because for the first time in 2020/2021 this module was introduced. Does it have to be the first stage to join the officer training module? Will this module be run right now, in this next period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u70	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The information was sent to all higher education institutions in electronic mode - a complete set of information. This program is very popular, and we would like to say, for those reasons that I have already mentioned. But there is another very important consideration. Well, as far as theoretical training is concerned, for each group - this group is about 20 people - we allocate PLN 5300. The higher school receives these funds. This is already a kind of incentive to both schools - not only public schools but also non-public schools - they compete very strongly to receive such funds, but above all to achieve what is most important, most important, and thus theoretical training. The project is accepted and founded as such - the programme and, as a consequence, the project - that it is necessary to undergo theoretical training at the basic level. Later, there is possibly a level of petty officer, and then there is, in cooperation with the Minister of National Defence, training at a higher level. I would also like to provide some data on the outcomes of previous education. Nearly 16,000. - by the way, the Member has mentioned this - so far theoretical training has been passed in these four editions, while more than 9.5 thousand have passed. started practical training; this is 3 weeks after basic training or 6 weeks in the case of a sub-office course. So it's $9.5,000. students started practical training, 9,000. He completed practical training and took a military oath, becoming also a series of reserves. Almost $7.5,000. has been appointed as a corporal after the Petty Officer's module. 147 people have completed specialized training in the Petty Officer's module. This is important and important, and that's what I've been talking about before. 46 students passed the officer's exam in the pilot edition of the officer's module, and 24 lieutenants of the reserve completed additional specialized training. I would add that the Academic Legion is a solid support also for the Territorial Defence Army. These are people who can not only pursue themselves professionally, but also carry out what is important and important to them, i.e. in terms of protecting both internal security and above all the external Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u72	Thank you very much. Messengers Joanna Jaśkowiak, Iwona Maria Kozłowska and Iwona Hartwich will ask a question about the risk of health and life of pregnant Polish women. This question is addressed to the Minister of Health and will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Waldemar Kraska. I would like to ask you, Mrs Joanna Jaskowiak. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Her heart was beating too - we have heard these words many times lately. For every false argument concerning the immunity of a conceived life, I will repeat these four words as a mantra: her heart was beating too. How dare you tell us that this is not the law you've made? How dare you say it's a doctor's fault, an art error or any other more closely identified cause? Already young children learn to predict the consequences of their actions. If you throw a rock at another person, you can hurt her, you can kill her. What's more, this person can give you back. We live in the 21st century in the middle of Europe... [[But at the border...]] ...and you pushed the Poles into the medical basement and pushed them abroad. [[And on the border with you...]] Only there can pregnancy be removed safely and without legal consequences, especially at risk. [[Ten times more... after the ruling.]] Unfortunately, not all Polish women can take advantage of this way, for example for financial reasons, and not all Polish women want to take advantage of this way. It is unimaginable that in a country belonging to the European Union a woman in a hospital to whom she has asked for help is dying only because doctors are waiting for the heart of her severely damaged fetus to stop beating. In this case they stopped beating both hearts, and one child, already born, became an orphan. Minister, will you, responsible for health and life of Poles, take action to prevent such tragedies from happening again? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u74	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In Poland everyone has the right to health protection. Citizens, regardless of their material situation, have equal access to public-funded healthcare services by public authorities. Under special legal protection there are women in Poland during pregnancy, childbirth and childbirth, which is provided by national legislation, as well as by international agreements ratified by Poland. The scope and conditions of the provision of health services, the principles and modalities of their public funding and the tasks of public authorities to ensure equal access to these benefits are laid down in the Law of 27 August 2004 on the provision of public-funded healthcare. It is this law that provides care for a pregnant woman, during childbirth and childbirth, prenatal care for the fetus, care for the newborn, initial assessment of the health and development of the infant. Under this law, pregnant women are entitled to health benefits outside the order. As early as possible, taking into care of pregnant women is very important for the further course of pregnancy and the health of the child. The main objective of medical care for pregnant women is to ensure the proper course of pregnancy and to identify risk factors as early as possible, enabling patients to take care of their health needs. As of 1 January 2019, the Regulation of the Minister of Health of 16 August 2018 on the standard of organisational perinatal care entered into force. The standard sets out the way health care organisations are organised in healthcare providers providing perinatal care, i.e. pregnancy, childbirth, childbirth and care for the newborn. It has a special place in legislation on the organisation of prenatal education, support for breast-feeding, relief of birth pain, as well as the working rules of staff in cases particularly difficult for women and their families, such as miscarriage, the birth of a dead or severely ill child. The standard solutions place particular emphasis on the cooperation of medical staff with parents to provide the best possible care for the child. To this end, the standard indicates that all care treatments necessary for the newborn are carried out in the presence of the mother, after the necessary information has been provided to her, also after obtaining her consent. The standard provides for monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of its provisions. In addition, both gynecologists and midwifes can take care of a pregnant woman according to the standard standard. The woman has the opportunity to familiarize herself with the organizational standard of care, including knowledge of her rights and health care scheme during pregnancy, childbirth and childbirth, and care for the newborn. The pregnant person shall have at least nine consultations with the doctor or midwife during which the health and pregnancy are assessed. The midwife shall take care of the woman and her newborn child at her place of residence or stay within 48 hours of receipt of a notification from the hospital of the birth of the child. Care is carried out in the form of patronage visits. A woman has the right to at least four such visits. Given the need for special care in the environment for pregnant women and their families, in this case complicated pregnant women and in the case of midwifery failures and children who have been diagnosed with severe and irreversible disability or incurable illness threatening their lives, it has been decided to provide them with comprehensive support and adoption of solutions of statutory importance. To this end, the Act on the Support of Pregnant Women and Families was adopted on 4 November 2016. The law for life, followed by a comprehensive programme of support for families 'For life' adopted by a resolution of the Council of Ministers on 20 December 2016. The solutions adopted are due to the need for Polish families to have a well-deserved sense of safety, especially when there may be a situation of irreversible impairment or incurable illness threatening the life of a child. State care shall include access to adequate health services, family policy instruments implemented under the programme a series of actions to achieve this objective set out under the six priorities. Children with a severe and irreversible disability or incurable life-threatening disease, arising during the prenatal period of child development or during childbirth, and children with a disability ruling, for children up to 16 years of age with a significant degree of disability, including all indications, shall be entitled by law to free medical devices up to the limit of public funding, the use of health care services and pharmaceutical services provided in pharmacies, the use of specialised services financed by public funds without referral (Dawn), the use of rehabilitation without a limit, as specified in separate provisions. In order to improve the care of a pregnant woman, childbirth and childbirth and the newborn child, a range of benefits have been introduced, coordinated care of a pregnant woman... Minister, we're on our way to the end. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: ...at the second and third levels of perinatal care. Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, I still have enough material to hand over, but time's up. In the second part, you'll try to fit in. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: So if there's an additional question, I'll also refer to him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u76	You're welcome. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u77	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Minister, high standards, and women die. Thank you for mentioning the Life Programme, because it has been four years since the start of this programme. The purpose of this programme was to help women with complicated pregnancies and families with children who were diagnosed with severe irreversible disability or incurable illness that threatens their lives. Unfortunately, the control of NIK showed that from January 2017 to June 2020 a small number of women in complicated pregnancy and families with infants whose lives are at risk have benefited from this programme. [[May I, Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u78	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u79	Dear Marshal, Therefore, specific questions. How many families have received the help they need under the program? How many women have benefited from psychological care as part of the life program? How was the aid implemented? How many shelters do families with sick children live in? How many of the declared 30 (the bell) neonatological and pediatric centers were created? In all voivodships, have women had the opportunity to receive palliative and hospice care? When will the Sejm be awarded after the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 October a project of assistance for women and children with a serious defect diagnosed, including a fatal one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u80	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister. I kindly inform you that some of these questions may also be answered in writing, because we will not be able to do anything in time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen! All these questions are addressed, not to the Ministry of Health, but to the Ministry of Family, so I think we will answer in writing with the Ministry of Family. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u82	I didn't ask for that shortcut, but it is what it is. [[But he didn't answer the questions from the previous part.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Can we therefore ask for a written reply?]] Yes, that's what the Minister said. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Marek Polak and Mrs Anna April from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question on the preparation of health care for the fourth wave of pandemics, with particular emphasis on the preparation of hospital treatment, including temporary hospitals, and the level of killing of Poles and anticipated government action in connection with the development of the pandemic of Coronavirus. This question will be addressed to the Minister of Health and will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Waldemar Kraska, who has just answered previous questions. Okay, here we go. Mr Marek Polak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u83	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Over a dozen thousand daily numbers of infections in recent weeks clearly indicate that we are at an advanced point in the fourth wave of Coronavirus. We all know that vaccination is a key tool in the fight against a persistent pandemic. Due to the numerous points of vaccination and the long-standing information and promotional campaign, Poles have a wide range of weapons for this benefit, which is the vaccine. I would like to ask how the level of implantation among Poles is developing, whether these are growing trends and whether the introduction of lockdown is considered in the face of a further increase in the number of diseases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u84	Thank you. Mrs Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask about the state of preparation of hospitals for the fourth wave of epidemic, with particular emphasis on temporary hospitals. Is there some kind of turbulence involved in their activation? How many respirators do we have? And on the basis of the experience of the third wave and the second wave, do we make any adjustments in the fight against the epidemic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u86	Thank you. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We're actually entering right now, actually we're already entering the fourth wave. Every day we have a lot of new cases of coronavirus infection. Today, unfortunately, another record has fallen. This also translates into the number of people who unfortunately go to Polish hospitals. This also means that more and more people require not only access to oxygen, but also the help of intensive care units, i.e. the use of ventilators. That is why it is so important that we promote and encourage Poles to immunize. To answer your question, I would like to say that the so-called vaccines are now being vaccinated. The full dose is 20 150 thousand. Poles, i.e. 53% population. Of course, this is not enough to achieve population resilience, which is why at the moment, as doctors say, who deal with patients with COVID-19 on a daily basis, uninsulated people go to Polish hospitals and it is these people who require this very specialized procedure, which is connection to a ventilator or ECMO cameras. We have also implemented the so-called. booster dose, i.e. the third dose for persons aged 18 years and over and for whom at least 6 months have passed since the last course of vaccination. This is a booster dose that significantly increases our level of safety, raises the level of antibodies in our body, significantly more protects us than this basic dose, which unfortunately has already passed several months, which naturally reduces our resistance. This is related not only to vaccination with COVID-19, but also to other vaccinations. Today, this booster dose was taken by 1260 thousand. Poles and every day we observe what I have to say with satisfaction, an increasing interest in just this booster dose. As far as the booster dose is concerned, because this is the dose, which is also the third dose, only is already addressed to people who have naturally impaired immunity, whether they are undergoing organ transplants, whether they are dialysis or during chemotherapy, i.e. during the treatment of cancer, for today we have implanted this supplemental dose of 303 685 people, i.e. practically all people who are diagnosed in this direction, have taken this dose. If we look at the voivodship, the Podkarpackie voivodship is unfortunately the least vaccinated - 35%, also Podlaskie - 39% and Lublin - 41%. Most vaccinated inhabitants have Mazowieckie Voivodship - 52% , Wielkopolska - 51% and pomorskie - 49%. We bought a total of 110 million vaccines. We've already brought in 80 million. With regard to the preparation and the bed base, as the Member asks, there are now more than 20,000 in this database, actually 21,000. We already have beds prepared for patients with COVID-19. 15 grand is taken. Unlike previous waves, we want this base to be systematically enlarged now, we do not want to make a big buffer, because Poles not only suffer from COVID-19, but also other diseases. We want these beds to be used for current needs as well. We also have nearly 2,000 prepared at the moment. ICU beds, i.e. beds, which are equipped with ventilators. As of today, we have 1,300 ventilators occupied. Unfortunately, very young people are getting there more and more often. One hospital in Lublin reported that the average age of the patient on the ventilator was 30 years. These are very young people who, I think, have succumbed to a false narrative that only older people have COVID. This new mutation, which is currently in Poland, causes that young people are very often ill. Many people are also in intensive care units because they report too late. They just wait at home, they heal on their own, they don't report to the doctor, they don't do tests, but the symptoms spread so fast that they sometimes go directly from the hospital emergency department to the ICU. At the moment we have 20 temporary hospitals active, 5 so-called. passive, i.e. ready to run - these are hospitals equipped with equipment, only need staff there. Today we are planning to launch an additional temporary hospital in Wrocław, and next week, if the epidemiological situation requires it, and it seems necessary, we will run a temporary hospital at the National Stadium. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the moment, we have a plan for expanding the bed base: by the end of November - about 26,000. beds, until the end of December - 31 thousand. Beds. Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: I hope that this will not be necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u88	Thank you very much. An additional question? [[Yes.]] Hold on, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u89	Minister! I would like to ask you an additional question about how local authorities work together with the Ministry of Health in the fight against the pandemic of Coronavirus. Is it true that the admission of patients with COVID-19 to certain local hospitals is blocked? And how do you just want to deal with these pathological situations? What tools do you have to fight these situations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u90	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u91	Thank you, Member, for this question. Indeed, the pandemic has shown that authorities operating in particular hospitals do not always want to cooperate. I mean, the state must ensure equal access to healthcare for all. During the COVID pandemic, it is all the more necessary for this access to be equal in all parts of our country. Voivodeships, when preparing security plans, most often talk to hospital directors, their operating authorities. And here it is different, depending on the voivodship. I think that such an example of non-cooperation - I have already talked about this many times - is the capital city of Warsaw, where unfortunately this cooperation does not work out as we would like. And so on. During the previous wave, we were forced to introduce the director or the commissioner to the Southern Hospital, because this hospital was not entirely fulfilling its actions. The answer of the city authorities is that this hospital was not built for patients with COVID-19. I do not know if a hospital was built in Poland for this purpose, but we should provide such assistance. In the case of Southern Hospital or Prague Hospital it is still raised that we have not enough oxygen there, that it is not adapted. I'm gonna remind you that the Southern Hospital had 270 patients during the third wave, and right now it's 70 or 80. We, of course, on our part, if necessary - and many local authorities and hospitals reported it - if we need an oxygen tank, of course we pass it on, this is about infrastructure. We were restocking the resources at that time, only we had to report it to us. There's money for that. We've really, really invested a lot of millions of dollars in improving this infrastructure. As I say, the capital city does not want to cooperate here as we would like, especially on a level between the voivode and the President. I regret this very much, because this is unfortunately a risk to the loss of life and health of Warsawians. Warsaw is quite a big city and during the fourth wave there were many inhabitants of Mazowsze, not only Warsawians themselves, because Warsaw is a city whose inhabitants are quite well planted. In the first phase, it was the inhabitants of the Mazovia region, where this number of people vaccinated is unfortunately quite low. Those beds here really always need. And that's what we're doing right now, in individual hospitals we're releasing COVID troops, but we wanted these hospitals, which are quite large and, like the Southern Hospital, new ones, to be able to decide more of these beds for patients with COVID-19. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope that this cooperation will be better after our work, and then it will certainly not affect the health or life of the inhabitants of Warsaw. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u92	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The question is about the state of progress and the deadline for completing the modernisation of the Vistula shafts in the municipality of Maciejowice and is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. Mr Grzegorz Witkowski will answer the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u93	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The main topic of meetings with residents of the nadwiślańskie area, including the municipalities of Maciejowice, Wilga in the Garwolin district, is the issue of the modernisation of flood shafts. This is related to the concerns of local residents and local authorities about their safety due to the possibility of flooding and flooding in these areas. Talkers return memories of the recent threats that took place in 2010 and 2014. The inhabitants of Wilga and Maciejowice municipalities have been asking for many years to upgrade their flood shafts. In 2015, a modernised flood shaft was launched from Antoniówka Świerzowska to Krasek. Since then, 8 km of shafts have been upgraded in Maciejowice Municipality. The situation is very similar in the municipality of Wilga, where there are 14 km of shafts for modernization, but no works have been started yet in this municipality. I've put together a lot of interpellations and inquiries in this case. We've managed to bring back work on the shafts. This year construction works have started, including shafts in the municipality of Maciejowice, continuing work on the section from Bączek to Antoniówka Świerżowska, it is a 4-kilometer section of the billings. The estimated cost of the investment is 44 million. Part of the funds comes from the Polish Waters and the Marshal's Office. As a result of the tendering procedures, the contractor of the tasks valued at around 15 million was selected, so savings were generated in the amount of approx. PLN 18 million. At that time, I wrote to the Minister, to the Polish Waters, to consider the possibility of allocating the remaining saved amount for further modernisation of the shafts towards Wilga in the area of the municipality of Maciejowice. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister. Does the Minister see the possibility of continuing work on the basis of the saved resources and when will work on the modernisation of the shafts in the municipality of Wilga begin and the continuation of the modernisation of the shafts in the last section in the municipality of Maciejowice? Thank you very much. Mr President, since you will be asking an additional question, why not ask it immediately? If you don't mind, of course. We'll see what the Minister says. Because it could be contained in the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u94	Oh, okay. You're welcome, Minister. Minister Grzegorz Witkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u95	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you very much for this question and for raising this issue, because it is extremely important. Indeed, many social environments, the local emphasis on the Ministry, on the Polish Waters, make some demands and some investments so much needed from the point of view of security. Before I go to a specific answer concerning the municipality of Maciejowice, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that in general the responsible government takes care of the security of Poland and Poles to a large extent covering many aspects. Flood safety is one example of such activities, especially as such phenomena occur in a sudden, violent manner, which does not mean that it is impossible to prepare for this or predict it, especially since floods in Poland occur cyclically in the same areas, so these areas are checked and thanks to investment plans we can indeed prepare for this. I would like to talk about the last three years and what our government managed to do in the Oder and Vistula basins, as we are talking about the Vistula, to do. As a result of our investment activity in the last 3 years, 31 constructions were built and upgraded, five new flood tanks, 152 km of flood shaft sections, including over 65 km of new shafts. In 2021, i.e. it is already happening, it is planned to build and modernise another 78 km of sections, because despite high erosion, large damage or structural defects, some of the objects can be modernised and rebuilt, 13 mucus, three new pumping stations, 20 new regulatory structures. The most important investments made by the Polish Waters in recent years include investments related to the protection of Sandomierz, Tarnobrzeg and the construction of icebreakers for Warsaw in order to protect against ice in areas located north of Warsaw and four icebreakers for RZGW in Gdańsk. Let's get back to the Garvolin County issue. The purpose of the task, whose first stage has been completed and the second stage is realized, is the right-banked Vistula valley on the section of Bączki - Antoniówka Świerzowska in the municipality of Maciejowice. The project includes the execution of e.g. earthwork related to the reconstruction of the shaft body and landing bench, sealing of the shaft body with a bentonite mat, reconstruction of the shaft culvert, execution of the reinforcement of the service road. In April this year, the contractor was selected, as the Member spoke of. Ladies and gentlemen, work on a section of 4 km shafts, for the amount of more than 13 million PLN, will be carried out by November next year. It's pretty complicated in environmental terms. Environmental documentation is extremely rigorous. In order not to challenge these decisions to the Regional Environment Directorate or other environmental services, this had to be prepared in advance, which is why these preparations have been in place for so long. To answer the question, to anticipate whether this will work - yes, because I would still like to say about the third stage we are preparing for. It applies to a distance of almost 4 km. The final cost will be provided when the tender procedure is completed, but the amount of approx. 28 million PLN is foreseen for such investments, so that the inhabitants of the municipality of Maciejowice are safe. And we are planning a third stage, i.e. the completion of the entire investment, at the end of 2023. So it can be said that in 2 years the entire municipality, the right part of the Vistula will be secured. Indeed, for the purpose of carrying out the task, the necessary administrative decisions have been obtained for this third stage, which will expire in the event of failure to perform the task. That is why it is so important that thanks to the saved money that you have been talking about... And thank you very much to the parliamentarians from Garwolin, from Mazowsze, from that part for the strong pressure, lobbying at the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Infrastructure. As far as the municipality of Wilga is concerned, there is also a much larger scope of investment, but also more money. And most importantly, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Marshal, for this task, environmental decisions have been obtained. So, in fact, if we can expand this, this money saved safely shifts to this task, then we can start this investment in Wilg's municipality. It is impossible to start an investment in the municipality of Wilga without completing the investment in the municipality of Maciejowice. There, the investment (The Bell) consists primarily of the construction of the following structures. Then perhaps you, Mr Marshal, will see to it. I don't know how...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u96	It's in the second part. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u97	Yes. Thank you for this first part, Minister, and I'll ask for further information about Wilg's municipality. And on behalf of myself, Mr Tchórzewski and Mr Maciej Górski, I will thank the Minister for this very good information for the people. We'll know what to tell the residents. And I'm gonna need some more information about Wilga.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u98	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u99	Yeah, the Wilga River... It's not the river. It's the town of Wilga. As far as Wilga is concerned, I would very much ask for patience, I will be back to that in a moment, but there is also very important information for the inhabitants of the municipality of Maciejowice. There we were able to initiate a tendering procedure to protect the Vistula shore from erosion in a section of 1 km. There will be made a stone tile along with a steel grid covering the shore. This is so important that on this section, as they checked the Polish Waters - and personally I already feel invited to the place of the investment, we will see it together with the residents, with the local government - there is a corner which concerns the biggest erosion. That's why this stone cover will be, I think, 100% He's been securing this shore for years. Information for Members is particularly important: government money has managed to provide PLN 10 million for this security. It's the town of Wilga. Right and left... The Wilga River and the Vistula River. Elevation of the embankment, increase of the shaft by the construction of the boulevard. It's about the steel wall from the water side. Construction, manufacture of an anti-filtering iris with a depth of 8 and 9 m, depending on which kilometer these investments are carried out. Generally, construction of a wall of resistance, elevation, execution of shaft crossings, planting of wickers, shore reinforcements, construction of an operating road. This is a very wide range of investment activities, so that, first of all, residents are safe, second, ladies and gentlemen, in order to stay in line with environmental conditions, with all the things that often restrict us in such investments. We have such a split personality: on the one hand, there is the safety of Poland and Poles, the safety of the inhabitants of the rivers, and on the other hand there is concern, sometimes excessive, about the environment. We stand in the position that these two things can be reconciled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our point on asking questions with a story about the emergence of shafts and the difficult work involved. We're moving on to the next point. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that, at this meeting of the Sejm, information on the poverty of society will be considered as a result of the surge in prices and the lack of a balanced income increase, in particular those employed in the budgetary sphere, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Club by the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens. I would also like to remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by Members of the representatives of the applicants, and there will be two of them, may not last more than 5 minutes, and that the reply by the representatives of the Council of Ministers, and there will be two of them, for more than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Before I cast my vote and ask the floor of Mr Sławomir Nitras, I will ask the Parliamentary Club the Civic Coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 51 questions, and there are two options. The first option is that we set two minutes for the question, and some of you will not ask, and there is a second option, which I suggest you fit in in one minute. This way, you ask questions, and if it's an extremely complicated question, we'll put in a few seconds, okay? [[Voice from the room: 1.5 minutes.]] [[Voice from the room: 2 minutes.]] But look, it's in your best interest, which is why I don't care. [[Marshal, one minute, please.]] Thank you very much. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. I ask Mr Sławomir Nitras to ask the question in the first part, and then I will ask Mrs Isabella Leszczyna. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u101	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! As far as I can tell, Minister Patkowski from the Ministry of Finance will answer us. We are talking about an extremely serious matter, in which I think there should be some agreement in this House, about salaries in the budgetary sphere, about how much Polish officials earn, how much Polish teachers earn, how much health workers earn. I'm replacing the biggest groups. We're gonna talk about how much they're making and how much you're planning for them. That's why, Minister, I'll start with one statement. Minister, I'd like to ask you what kind of raise you've been getting lately. How much more do you make? Because according to my information, you've received over $4,000 in the last few months. net increase. That's more than 70%. , maybe up to 80% health care professionals. Your raise, only a raise, is higher than the salary that is paid to officials who work for Poland, teachers who teach our children. We're asking this question for a simple reason. We hear almost every day of Prime Minister Morawiecki and other government officials who say: ladies and gentlemen, your salaries are growing faster. than inflation. So what, according to Mr Morawiecki, that inflation is already rising at a rate of almost 8% on a yearly basis - it will be so - since salaries are rising faster? Let's review this, ladies and gentlemen. I think there's also an agreement between PiS politicians to think about it calmly. When it was announced a few weeks ago that next year the minimum wage would increase in Poland to 3,000. gross, i.e. approx. Twenty-two hundred net, do you know what health professionals, many administrative staff, prosecutors, courts, joint administration, state administration, mostly district or voivodship level thought? They thought, minimum wage increases, there's a chance we'll get a raise because our wages are below minimum wage. So what if you guys are bragging about rising wages in the business sector, in the economy? It's not up to you, and if it's up to you, you're raising people's taxes. You, the rulers in Poland, apart from inflation, which depends on you, really depend on the salaries in administration, in the public sphere, in schools, in hospitals. These wages are growing much slower than inflation. They didn't grow fast. But dramatic inflation at the moment is eating away at that salary. So what if you raise the minimum wage to people working in schools when inflation is rising twice as fast? 100 PLN or 150 PLN raise will be eaten by inflation. Let's reach out to the Chief of Civil Service's report for a moment. It states that in 901 entities of the state administration, i.e. more than half of the entities, wages are below the national average. The largest group are the District Police Commands and the District Fire Department Commands. Those who fight like you say today... Look, every unit of the fire department has been visited by some member of the PiS, some cardboard checks you've been carrying for six years. They earn the least in Poland. The least - police officers, prosecutors, courts. You're all filming. You're reshaping that chips are flying. The courts and prosecutors have been so reformed over the last six years that the stone on the stone has not been left. And people make 2400 zlotys. After 2,400 PLN. You know this isn't about minimum existence anymore. This isn't about people being able to hold on anymore. It is about elementary dignity, that someone who works for the Polish state, who teaches our children, someone who works in court, someone who works in the prosecutor's office, earns a minimum wage. Minister Niedzielski had the courage to tell the paramedics not to worry. Their wages must rise next year because minimum wages are rising and they cannot remain below the minimum wage. That's what the discussion's about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal, 10 seconds, please. The question is whether you are ready to sit down and seriously think about how to solve this problem. Like this big gap between the economy that's developing and the state administration that you've brought to the brink of ruin in terms of staff... Are you ready for a serious debate? We are ready for a serious debate. You often call us to a serious debate. Here we are. Today's goal is to save the existence of Polish administration, Polish school, so that anyone wants to teach our children so that public health care, public health care is real, because today it becomes fiction. Today, all benefit from private health care. We are curious whether you are ready for this debate. We are ready for it for all those employees and people who share their hopes with the public sphere. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u102	Thank you, sir. That was the longest 10 seconds I've ever seen in my life. [[Time is a relative thing.]] [[Voice from the hall: What is this against eternity?]] Time is... [[Time is a relative thing.]] Exactly. A man throws a pearl and just flies diamonds from this room equally. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy by Minister Anna Schmidt. [[And they said Patkowski.]] Everything's changing, sir. 10 seconds takes 40, one minister changes to another minister. Okay, but the minister isn't here yet, so maybe I'm not... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay, but I can say something at the time. Isn't that too much? [[You're always a marshal.]] There you go, there you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u103	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Poland, like many other countries around the world, is struggling with price increases. According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, the global food price index increased again in September 2021, this time to the highest level in 10 years. What is worth paying attention to is the fact that our country is struggling with the problem of lack of hands to work. According to the ManpowerGroup report, in terms of global talent shortages in 2021, this problem was felt by 69% employers, and the result for Poland was even higher, as 81% reported difficulties in acquiring qualified workers companies. Among the five most desirable specializations were logistics staff, production and machinery operators, IT staff, administration and office staff and direct customer service staff. This was one of the reasons why employers, despite the pandemic of Coronavirus, carefully made HR decisions and, using the support they received from the crisis shield, kept their jobs. This did not result in a drastic increase in unemployment, although such announcements appeared in the first months after the outbreak of the pandemic. This year the situation on the labour market was improving from month to month. Since March this year. the number of unemployed and registered unemployment rates continued to fall. In June this year. for the first time in over a year, the level of registered unemployment has fallen below 1 million people. According to preliminary data at the end of October 2021, 912 thousand were registered at the labour offices. the unemployed, i.e. compared to the end of September 2021, the figure decreased by more than 22 000. The rate of decline was five times higher than in October 2020. As regards October ub. The level of unemployment decreased by more than 106 000 years. people, that's over 10%. We estimate that the unemployment rate recorded at the end of October 2021 was 5.5% , i.e. was 0,1 percentage points lower than the month before and 0.6 percentage points lower than the year before. Poland has been one of the lowest unemployment rates in the European Union for several months. In September 2021, Eurostat's unemployment rate was 3.4% , while the EU average is 6.7%. Poland therefore took the fourth place with Germany in terms of the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. This shows that the rapid and well-planned actions of the government contained in the anti-crisis shield helped overcome the financial difficulties and enabled many companies to continue their business and that the workers had kept their jobs. As regards the instruments proposed by the labour resort, county and voivodship labour offices granted support for about 8.3 million jobs for the amount of over 35 billion PLN. Taking care of jobs is also conducive to ensuring the safety of Poles' and their families' income, although it must be said that we also took care of those who lost their jobs, because in 2020 we raised unemployment benefits to the amount of 1200 PLN and since June this year. it amounts to PLN 1240.80. It should also be pointed out that in 2021 there was another verification of income criteria and amounts of social assistance cash benefits, which was carried out on the basis of an examination of the social intervention threshold carried out by the Institute of Labour and Social Affairs. The higher criteria will apply from January 2022. These changes will allow not only a higher cash benefit, but also more people and families to be supported. This applies in particular to permanent, periodic and targeted allowances. The new income criteria for social assistance benefits are PLN 776 for a single person, i.e. an increase of 11%, and PLN 600 for a family member, an increase of 14%. It should be emphasized that family policy is one of the most important areas of action of the Polish government, and therefore new initiatives are constantly being taken to increase support for families. The instruments of family policy are... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Marshal, the Member is bothering me. Mr President, do you want to hear what I have to say? [[Honestly, you're saying no.]] Wonderful. But listen, listen... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anna Schmidt: Why don't you listen to the rest? Ladies and gentlemen... [[They wrote you a paper, but not about it.]] Mr... [[You're talking about social services.]] But listen, can we finish this stage? You're welcome. Mr, I ask for a distance, really, a little bit. There you go, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anna Schmidt: Thank you very much. The result of government action in the field of family policy is the introduction of significant financial assistance to families. It seems that we are talking about putting society on the table, so pro-family policy in my opinion, Mr, I do not know if it is part of your question. [[Yeah, there's a reason to be outraged.]] This support includes a number of actions. One of the flagship government programmes is the introduction of the 500+ government programme on 1 April 2016, which is the foundation of support for Polish families. [[Yeah, 500+.]] It is a proof of the government's concern for Polish families and is the largest transfer of money since 1989. From 1 July 2019 the educational provision is universal and is entitled to PLN 500 per month for each child aged up to the age of 18, regardless of the income of the family. This programme turned out to be the biggest social program after systemic transformation in Poland. He changed the lives of many families. They have become wealthier, better prospects for their development. This support contributes to providing children with a solid education, proper nutrition and treatment, and allows families to increase their spending, among others. for education and recreation. The 500+ family programme has ensured better conditions for starting families and raising children and is therefore considered one of the best ways to support families in almost all social groups. From the beginning of the programme until the end of September 2021, 164.5 billion PLN was spent on its implementation without operating costs. In July this year. There were 6.5 million children entitled to receive benefits under the scheme. Another programme that I would like to mention is the government's good start programme introduced in 2018, which aims to support families with children of school age. It is another component of the government's comprehensive and long-term family policy aimed at all families raising children. The aim of the programme is to equalise educational opportunities irrespective of the family's cultural, social and material capital. On the basis of a schooling programme for children aged 7 to 20 years - for children with disabilities the upper age limit is 24 years - a one-off benefit of PLN 300 per child for the starting school year is granted. A total of PLN 5.3 billion was spent on the implementation of the programme with no service costs in the years 2018 and 2021. In 2020, 4.5 million pupils were entitled to receive benefits. At the same time, the government, aiming at even wider support for Polish families, presented the latest programme declaration of Polski Ład. This is another document providing broad support for Polish families. It includes a number of solutions, among others. in the field of housing, taxation or labour market policy. It also provides for much greater expenditure on the development of the network of care institutions for the youngest children. One of the solutions envisaged in the Polish Łady is the introduction of a new financial support instrument, which will be family care capital. In addition, as part of the Polish Deal, it is planned to introduce a subsidy for the reduction of the fee for the stay of a child in a nursery, a children's club or a daily carer in the case of children who will not be covered by family care capital. Family care capital will be provided to parents to cover the costs of caring for their second child between 12 and 36 months of age. In total, it's as much as 12,000. zł support. Parents will choose for themselves the formula in which they will receive this money - 1 000. PLN per month for a year or 500 PLN for two years. The benefit will be paid on a scheduled basis from January 2022. The projected expenditure in the first year is PLN 3.1 billion and in the following years - PLN 2.5 billion. billions. The grant of a reduction in the child's stay fee in daycare, children's club or day care provider is to be 400 PLN per month and will be transferred directly to the care provider. The Law on Family Care Capital amending the Children's Welfare Act under the age of 3 assumes that the provisions on the financing of the child's residence fee will enter into force from 1 April 2022. Another important element of Polish pro-family policy is the Large Family Charter. It is an instrument of support for families of many children. The Charter creates a system of statutory and commercial discounts offered by entities from various industries. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Currently, the discount offers 9 thousand. partners. Over 1 million families benefit from the card. Dear Marshal, I couldn't finish my speech, so maybe I'll fill them in later. Programmes that support Polish families and reduce poverty are unfortunately much, so I ran out of time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But that's not what we're asking.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u104	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. I'm waiting for a list of people to appear. Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir. I'm setting the time - one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u105	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I listened attentively to Mr Nitras' speech, which was extremely calm. Thank you for this tone of conversation, but your doves' heart does not go hand in hand with what the Civic Platform and PSL have done as coalitionists in the years 2011 and 2015. The fiscal remuneration valorisation rate in 2011 was zero, in 2012 - zero, in 2013 - zero, in 2014 - zero, in 2015 - zero. So do you have a card to solve problems today when it comes to salary increases? I'm having second thoughts. I don't think so. The minimum salary was PLN 1750. Now it's 2800 zł, it's 3000 zł. The minimum hourly rate for salaries under the Platform was PLN 4. For our governments, the minimum wage is almost 20 PLN. [[What 4 zlotys? What are you talking about?]] Ladies and gentlemen, inflation is not a domain. Only this latitude. It's not just in Poland. This is a phenomenon that today concerns those countries that are the fastest to emerge from the recession that occurred as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u106	Thank you very much. I understand that this question was actually addressed to Mr Nitras. [[I'd be happy to answer that.]] Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u107	We are asking about the wages of those working in the budgetary sphere, those dependent on the state, and the state is talking about 500+. We're asking for inflation, you're talking about 500+. Absolutely not on the subject. The trainer who is to come to the profession, who usually does not have children yet, so does not charge 500+, receives a minimum salary of 2949 PLN. Fortunately, the minimum salary next year is to be PLN 3010, so maybe this will also increase his salary. This is the pauperization of the teaching profession. This means that not the best are found in this profession, but those who have no other choice or are amazing enthusiasts. As a result, there are no teachers at all in many places in Poland. Meanwhile, inflation is 6.8% on average. , but in the case of fuel it is 33.9% , poultry - 18.8% , fuel - 18.3%, vegetable fats - 15.5% , sugar - 11,3%, vegetables - 8,3%. 64% Poles said very clearly: in the last year we did not get any raises. The earnings of the budget sphere depend on you. In your day, there's a lot of inflation and a lot of pauperisation, poverty in the budget sphere. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u108	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Despite the propaganda increase in the tax-free amount of the PiS government for 2022, it means a reduction in remuneration for the entire budget sphere instead of an increase. The actual rise in prices and cost of living already far exceeds the amount of symbolic increases. This means that in 2022 not only will poverty increase, but also the standard of living of practically every Polish family and employee will be lowered. Therefore, my dear Minister, two questions. When will the government take anti-inflationary measures that will restore the purchasing power of budget workers? Second question: Does the government intend to protect the borrowers, which the National Bank of Poland has funded the surge in mortgage rates? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u111	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, The Minister's speech reminded me of an event or a famous saying. It was the end of the '60s. It seems that Gomulka was responding in the face of price increases: Although the bread was worn out, the locomotives stood. So enjoy, citizens of the Polish People's Republic. We have dealt with such a departure on this platform in the performance of a representative of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki. Minister! Get down on the ground. Are you aware of how rent increases, how energy costs increase when it comes to Polish residents? How do product prices increase? Butter costs almost 10 zlotys already. Kujawski Oil - 100% raises. Are you aware of what Poles are up against when they go to the store - without salary increases, pensions, pensions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I was at a meeting of the Public Finance Committee and I know that the President's Office and the Prime Minister's Office have secured a salary increase. Urban also said he'd feed himself. And he's done just as you're done. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u112	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u113	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The yeast is one word that describes the achievements of the PiS government in recent years. Rapid inflation, rising prices in stores, rising service prices. Due to inflation, the real income of Poles decreased by almost 7% last year. This is the result of the government of President Duda, Prime Minister Morawiecki and President of Glapiński. Bad decisions, tax increases, money printing, murky fiscal policies and loss of market confidence. There's no way to defend it. That's why today we call on the government to stop this spiral. Poland 2050 proposes a specific anti-inflationary programme: five Hołowni. We propose a reduction of VAT to 20% and to 7%, suspension of the levy, allocation of revenues from emissions trading to the energy bill, allocation of PLN 6 billion of gas arbitrage to the reduction of gas prices and suspension of the Polish Load for at least one year, because this is another inflationary boost. These are concrete solutions and only the government (the bell) depends on whether this will be done. A question for the Minister. What is more important to the PiS government: caring for people or continuing to be mindless in power? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u114	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u115	Thank you. Minister! Is it true that at the time of the rule of law and justice, from 2017 onwards, the price level is around 2% So it's consistent with the medium-term inflation target? In 2020 it grew slightly, but it was still within these limits. The situation was similar in the first half of 2021. Is it true that price increases in the second half of 2021 are due to factors independent of the government and economic policy, often outside our economy? I am talking about supply factors, rising fuel prices as a result of rising oil prices and reducing oil supply. The demand for energy raw materials was growing because economies were starting to rebuild, while oil supply was limited. It pushed the prices up. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Similarly, electricity prices, which are, as you should know, forced by the European Union's climate policy. Troublesome supply networks. They are the main cause of rising prices, inflation, not economic policy mistakes... Thank you very much. ...of Matthew Moravian government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last year 485 thousand died in Poland. People. This was the highest result since World War II, the highest number of excess deaths. I want to claim those for whom Prime Minister Morawiecki hasn't had time since September, since the beginning of the white town. I mean nurses and midwives. I'm just going to give you three numbers that are very good at describing the situation we're in. Nearly 10,000 quit the profession in 2020. Nurses. The education ended in 5,000, which is half as low. But 3700 nurses took the right to pursue their profession, of which only 2,800 went to public health. I just want to say one thing. Four nurses are gone, and one of them is in public health. We're in such a tragic situation. In addition, when we look at nurses, it turns out that they live on average 62 years - and average women live about 81 years - because they are overworked because they often work for two or three jobs. This shows what situation Poland is in today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The money is, we've even shown where they're going and why they're not back in the money and in the budget. I just want to say one last thing. Hospitals will not function without nurses and midwives, and people will die if you do not present a real increase in pay for nurses and midwives. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're talking about setting up a society because of price increases. We are not talking loudly about the energy poverty of Poles and Poles. Within 1 year, coal was used by more than 80%. Fuels - more than 10% , gas - more than 5%, in some cases it's a dozen percent more, electricity has gone down by 20% over the last two years. Where are they said in 2019 to ensure that the price of electricity does not change? But a concrete and unambiguous question: Will the excise duty and VAT be reduced in the end, which can help improve the life and comfort of Poles and Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u121	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! According to GUS data, the so-called level. extreme poverty for 2020 amounted to 5.2% in Poland, which means that almost 2 million people lived below the existential minimum in Poland. This means an increase of 1% compared to 2019, which, in absolute terms, is 377 thousand. more people living in extreme poverty. According to experts, this was due to the weakening of the economy as a result of the COVID pandemic. This year, on the other hand, we have an additional problem: inflation, a drastic price increase, especially for first-needed articles. This affects the least earners. And the question to the government, in particular to the Minister, who presented here a wide range of actions, which the government is planning in this connection, is that the Ministry is planning not to make this (the bell) a huge number of people even more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u122	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In extreme poverty there are already 2 million Poles and Poles in Poland. Let me repeat: 2 million citizens live in extreme poverty. Within the UA. This group increased by 378 thousand years. persons. First pandemic, now expensive. The growing cost of living will be pushed into this group by more people - working, less earning, but also pensioners, including children. You're saying inflation is all over Europe. Not like this. Poland has one of the highest inflation rates and you have led to this economic policy over the past years. That's, among other things. weakening the gold, printing on a massive scale of empty money, but also introducing a number of new taxes and levies into the tax system. You say we have one of the lowest rates of unemployment, but it's just part of the truth (the bell), because you forget to add that the activity rate is also one of the lowest in Europe. [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] What's the government gonna do about it? Because in the budget bill for next year, Minister, there is no answer at all to the fundamental challenge of increasing cost and increasing poverty among Poles and Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u124	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Cymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My question to the Minister is simple: What is the importance of Poland's Load for reducing the impact of inflation for the broad social groups? Briefly. In 2020, the pandemic year had an unexpected impact. With regard to the group of best paid Poles, there was a real increase of more than 7%. However, at the same time, the weakest groups lost more than 6%. And the response of every government, not only from inflation, but at all, must be action aimed at improving the situation of huge social groups. Diffuse is still a fact despite the enormous, very effective actions of the current government. Minister! Please elaborate, because I don't have a modest time. I wish I could, but I can't right now, and you can. That's my question. [[Applause]] [[Could you, Taddy, couldn't you?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u126	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Budget workers, including prosecutors and courts, ask: If it is so good, why do we have to fight for dignity? If it's so good, why did he go through the biggest protest of the prosecution's employees and courts in the streets of Warsaw for 30 years? If it's so good, why do we have a red town and people who have been sitting in tents in the cold for days at the expense of their family at the expense of their jobs? If it's so good, then why can't the Minister of Justice carry out the promised value of 12%? ? If it's so good, where's the money? The Ministry of Justice tripled its budget in 6 years: from over 200 million to over 600 million. That's where the money is, if they don't go to the employees, the prosecutors and the courts, who are desperately saving their institutions from the sick deformities that Minister Ziobro is giving them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They sit at night surrounded by tons of files and save the Poles from having at least an elementary right to the prosecution and the court. Where's the money they deserve, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski from the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The tax due on inflation, the lack of concrete government action eats up in particular wages, social benefits, pensions and pensions every day. Today, many people, especially the lonely ones, who are in a difficult situation because of poor health, are wondering whether they will keep their home or their livelihood. And the government isn't doing anything about it. I would therefore like to ask: What concrete actions of the government will be presented to Parliament in the near future when it comes to the issue of electricity? Or just selected holdings, or aid for all holdings? Will there be a reduction in excise duty on fuel? Will there be actions related to the improvement of the salary of KRUS employees, social aid centres (the bell) and Polish Post? That's where people make 40%. I pay the minimum. I'm asking for specific answers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u130	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Stefan Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u131	Dear Marshal, Minister! Minister! High Izbo! So that you don't say later that this is an opposition attack, I'm going to read a short letter that I just got sent to my office. Please help people who can't afford to put on gas and still smoke in the furnaces with coal. There's no coal on the stacks at all. I'm supposed to find out about Grandma's coal in mid-November. Grandma has a pension of PLN 2100, and a ton of coal already costs PLN 1800. Where's the rest of it: fees, lives, medications? The mines only spend 5 t each, and in a moment there will be a problem with availability. I understand everything, but you can't live like this. I can't afford, even with payments, to replace the stove with the granny who lives next door to me, alone. How do I live? We're gonna chase the sheets to the woods? It's as good as it is now, it's never been. Of course, you write with a snack. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what it looks like. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u132	Thank you very much, sir. Now, please take the floor of Mr Michael Grammar. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: In the next round, he'll be right there.]] In that case, Mr Robert Gontarz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u133	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, inflation is not a desirable phenomenon. It is a dangerous phenomenon and we are aware of it. But the basic point is that we understand what inflation is about. Inflation, at least baseline, is based on two main issues: the rate of circulation of money and the amount of money in the economy. The year 2020 was a particularly difficult year in our economy and thanks to the determined and immediate activity of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki into the Polish economy to save millions of jobs in the economy, even more than PLN 200 billion have been injected into the economy. At the time of economic reflection, this money began to circulate, and this unfortunately led to an increase in inflation. To this are the prices of energy raw materials, as well as the interruption of supply chains. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a question, perhaps even a fundamental question. What would happen if in 2020 we behaved as we did in 2008 and 2009, when the Civic Platform government transferred just PLN 9 billion? After all, such a crisis, which was comparable to the crisis of World War II, could lead to job losses (the Bell) not by an additional 1 million, but by even 2 million people. [[Five million.]] That could triple unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, if we made such an irresponsible decision as you are now, we could be in a really tragic situation with regard to the labour market. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Your prime minister already said you saved $5 million.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u134	I would like to ask the floor of Barbara Nowacka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I don't know what you just did. We ask about the budgetary zone, why workers who work for public institutions, for the benefit of the Republic of Poland on state jobs, are getting poorer. You're leading to the pauperization of people who save institutions that you blow up, who act as probation officers, teachers, nurses, often office workers. Very often they live very poorly, very modestly, saving the state and looking at how you are acting badly. If state officials earn a minimum wage or a little bit above, budget workers often live together with their families on the poverty line, and you tell them it's great, it's just unworthy. You must remember that you as rulers have a special responsibility to take care of the state. Don't tell stories about how private entrepreneurs help people, just helping people (the bell), making sure the teacher wants to be a teacher and the employee of the court, and the curator could do this job decently. You're leading people who work in the budget to a loss of dignity. This is very bad for you and has tragic consequences. Take care of it. And you, Minister, finally answer questions about the budget, not programmes that reach very differently, e.g. to your families. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Porzucek will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is significant that the proposal of the Civic Coalition was not presented by people who deal with public finances on a daily basis, by Minister Leszczyna, by the president of Skowronska. [[I'll do the talking.]] You have chosen this Mr Nitras. Why? Because you want to make a political hucpa. You have no idea how to solve inflation. [[What are you saying?]] Just like Donald Tusk didn't have that idea asked a decade ago what he could do. He said, "I don't have a magic button. The situation is under control by our government. The situation in the world is serious. That's right. [[Voice from the hall: But you do nothing.]] Inflation has been the highest in Poland for years, but look at what is happening in Germany, where Chancellor Merkel manages it. It's the highest in almost 30 years. [[Voice from the hall: But we are in Poland.]] Let's take a look at the fuel prices that you're dealing with so often. In 2004, the Council Poland entered the European Union together with nine other countries, mainly from our region. In none of these countries (the bell) fuel prices are lower than ours. Why? Perhaps just the government of Mateusz Morawiecki manages Poland well? Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, I ask you very much to know whether it is true that the level of unemployment, i.e. what is most important for the Government of Law and Justice, is one of the lowest in the European Union. [[Your name is adequate.]] [[So they're gonna work for a bowl of rice, right?]] [[Poland is growing in strength.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u138	Thank you. Please take the floor of Marshal Caesar Grabarczyk. You're both interrupting the marshal's speech right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The result of inflation and expensive inflation, as Stefan Kisielewski said, is the result of the rule of law and justice. The yeast went crazy, but I wanted to pay attention. also for the agricultural sector. The prices of fertilizer went crazy. Several titles: The prices on the fertiliser market have gone crazy, they will raise the cost of food, farmers in shock, the prices of fertilisers have gone crazy, and the prices of fertilisers have increased significantly since January. What will be the result? It's gonna cost us food. Fertilizer prices have increased by 200.250%. In the same ratio, the price of food will increase. Meanwhile, we have professional groups that receive minimum remuneration. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A whole group of civil police personnel earning a salary of 3,000. zł. This mainly applies to non-multipliers, who are employed as a non-multiplier. And one more question: Is it true that you want to deprive a large proportion of the civilian police workers of the incentive bonus? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u140	Please take the floor of Mr Adam Gawada.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The increase in inflation not only in Poland, but also worldwide is indeed a concern of many experts. Many economists are considering the consequences of this situation. Against Other Countries - In the United States 6.2% , in Germany 4,5% inflation - for 28 years Poland has been ranked highest, I would say this: in a good place, in the middle of this table. [[And are we eight, four, and we're okay?]] The rise in prices has a genesis in the unprecedented scale of impact on the economy, because the pandemic we have collided with, the instruments we have applied, has indeed saved Poland from very serious consequences. I also do not hide the importance of the European Union's climate policy leading to the cost-effective price of energy and energy products. A few facts. Poland has improved the deficit by 17 percentage points against other countries in the European Union. This is the best result for all countries of the European Union. Between 2008 and 2015 inflation was record high - no instruments were used. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, and a few sets, literally 10 seconds. In 2011, the price of energy, the average fuel price of 5.5 PLN gave the opportunity to purchase for the lowest earners - 260 l. Now - 480 l. For average earners - 618 l, currently - 917 l. Minister, what further steps will be taken to protect Poles from costs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u142	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Janusz Cichoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u143	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Tonight, we will be voting on increases for cybersecurity workers. It's a lex Dworczyk by Janusz Cieszyński. He will be created, Cybersecurity Fund. Stick, 350 million PLN was found yesterday, 1000 people will benefit, the maximum salary - 21 times the base amount... [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] ...that's over 40,000 because you have to fight and ensure security, cybersecurity. [[Voice from the room: Need or need not? Yes, you do.]] I'm sure it is. But in this context, I insist on the tax administration. How much work is worth, e.g. Customs and treasure inspectors? Without them, there will really be no revenue for the state budget. [[Applause]] From them. They depend. There's a shortage of qualified personnel. The best leave because of their wages, they go to the dark side of power. This is a threat (the bell) to the security of state finances. Meanwhile, since 2017, the fiscal administration has had visions of modernization, increases, and they get scraps. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u144	The floor will be taken by Mrs Catherine Czochar.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister: Does the Ministry have data, current data on the situation of multi-child families after the programmes introduced, such as Mum 4+, 500+, 500+ for the dependents, an increase in pensions and pensions, 13., 14. How is this compared to the situation of these social groups before 2015? Today I have heard many words of criticism here again. We already know... The Civic Coalition, the Platform can only do one thing: criticize. But I also remember exactly borscht and mirabelles. You probably remember, too, don't you? [[I think it's from when I was a kid.]] Donald Tusk's solution (The Bell), the solution of the Civic Platform and PSL government. [[The one with the childhood...]] Please? [[Game in the hall, applause]] [[We remember a bowl of rice, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u146	I now ask the floor of Mr Richard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u147	Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! You're experts on how much we can buy on average salary. Then let's try coal. Why carbon? After all, Poland stands with coal. Your president, your prime minister, the ministers, they did, didn't they? The coal mines are under your management, under your shoe. So? Is he willing to convert? Raise your hand. I can't see. Why don't you raise your hand and count it? So let's start with the lowest pension, or the lowest pension from the ZUS or the KRUS, not enough for a ton. We can't count to tons. Now you buy your bags. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You buy bags. And it's like this... Can you ask him not to disturb you? [[Voice from the room: There's no...]] ...people come to the point of sale, shake their heads and buy a couple of bags. We're going back to the '50s, '60s. If you're in charge, people are gonna be on track. My grandparents told me what it was like. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Those are the fuel prices right now. You do nothing about it, you have no idea how to manage it, you have no idea how to help people. So it's not enough for a ton of coal? 33% of people in Poland smoke, heat up with coal. You're helpless, powerless, hopeless. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: But Tusk...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u148	The question will be asked by Marek Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u149	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! All indications are that today's inflation is a side effect of pandemic measures aimed at rescuing entrepreneurs from bankruptcy and protecting jobs. This applies not only to Poland, but also to other highly developed countries with a strong and stable economy, both in Europe and in the world, especially those that have best coped with the pandemic economic crisis. These are e.g. Czech Republic, Germany, Romania and even the United States. The level of inflation in these countries is comparable to ours, and this has not been the case for decades. As far as I know, the government is finishing up the anti-inflationary package. We do not know him yet, but I would like to ask if the solutions contained in him are consistent with the actions carried out by the governments of other countries affected by inflation (the Bell) and what are the nearest forecasts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u150	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Monika Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm here today to claim medics who, with the fourth wave of pandemics, are on the front line of the fight against COVID. The government doesn't listen to them. White town's been running for 67 days. Medics have been hitting the alarm for months. Public health is dying, we all see it. Doctors and nurses leave because of low salaries and government ignorance. The medics don't want your applause anymore, they want a decent salary for their hard work. Where's the Prime Minister? Where's the Minister of Health? Maybe they're fighting COVID. No, it's not. Today we have over 24,000. New cases and 463 deaths. All they do is count deaths, and they give these sad statistics. Finally, some facts. In 2007 the minimum wage was 926 PLN, in 2015 - 1850 PLN, an increase, ladies and gentlemen, by 95% (The bell); between 2016 and 2021 the minimum wage was 3 000. zł, this increase by more than 70% - with deflation in the times of Platform and PSL governments and galloping inflation, today the highest in Europe, under the rule of PiS. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u152	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr John Warecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u153	High Izbo! The opposition has been accused of doing nothing about inflation. Because the National Bank of Poland reacted to the rise in inflation, increasing the reference rates. [[...coins.]] At the beginning of November, he increased it to 1,25%. The government also does not underestimate this phenomenon and is currently working intensively on the anti-inflationary package. I would like to remind you that 5% inflation was also recorded for PO-PSL teams in May 2011. Currently, inflation is also high in the US at 6.2% year-to-year, and in Germany it reaches 5%. With regard to the concerns of the opposition, Mr Nitras, about the remuneration in the budget, it should be recalled that no one other than Donald Tusk's crew frozen salaries in 2011 for many years in this sector. But it's only part of the disgusting activities of the PO-PSL team. At the beginning of its rule, the old pension period was not extended (the bell) for a long period of work, then the funeral allowance was reduced, VAT was increased, the retirement age was extended, the funds from the Demographic Reserve Fund, which was intended for future pensions, and 150 billion PLN was collected from the OFE. [[Applause]] [[Lie!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u154	Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of civilian employees of the Police District Commands and the Police City Commands not covered by the multiplier remuneration system should be addressed. Ladies and gentlemen, they work with uniformed police officers in a desk, often carrying out similar tasks. I do not know if you know that in Poland it is a group of nearly 25 thousand. employees. And you know what happened? These people have been completely ignored in terms of the area of remuneration. These people are in the final position on the scale of all budget staff, on the scale of all uniform staff. That's $25,000. persons, of which nearly 60% He's got the lowest salary. Ladies and gentlemen! There's no way we're missing out on that part of the budget staff, that part of the uniform staff. I am already announcing (the bell) that the Civic Coalition is making an amendment to the budget, which will compensate the civil police and police officers for this, granting them adequate financial gratification and raising their salaries. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u156	Thank you very much. I do not see Mrs Barbara Bartus. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Przemyśl border internship, trade unions, writes a letter. Staff of the Civil Service Corps, salary - PLN 3427. Employees not included in the multiplier system - PLN 2997 gross. When you thank them from this stand, you don't think about their wages, you don't think about the police, you don't think about the army, you don't think about the Border Guard, and now you think about the farmers. The costs of fertilisers increased, e.g. saltpeters. It was 1,200,300 PLN per tonne, now it is 2,800,3200 PLN. We all know how expensive fuel is. Shopping machines. Today, the 150-horse tractor costs 300.400 thousand. zł. How are people in the country, farmers supposed to live? [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are no shopping groups you're talking about. There's no way to buy cheaper fuel. And don't tell me... Every percentage of the cost is about 40 billion PLN drawn out of our pockets. That 40 billion zlotys should be in your throat. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u158	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the High House that your Marshal of the Sejm has called for an hour. 12.45 the Bureau of the Sejm and the Convention, to which I will have to go, so somewhere around an hour. 12.40, I'll announce a few minutes' break. I'll try to get there as soon as I can. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I hear dramatic appeals on the left side of the room here. However, when statistics are read, the average wage in the first half of the year was 8% higher in the national economy. than the pay in relation to the six months before, it's really 4.2. In August, in the business sector, the difference is 9.5%... [[And we're talking about the budget.]] ...really it's 3.8%. I don't really understand why these dramatic appeals... [[That's a brilliant statement.]] ... because - and I ask for confirmation here - despite inflation, real wages are growing all the time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Voice from the Chamber: The economy is growing.]] [[It's not about that.]] [[Detached specifically.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u160	High Izbo, I just got word that at about an hour. There is a Bureau meeting at 12.30, so I am now declaring a break. I'll try to get back as soon as I can. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 28 hours 12 min 41]] I tried to get back here as soon as I could. I therefore resume the proceedings. We continue to consider item 17 of the agenda: Current information. I now ask the floor of Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u161	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In order to actually show the scale of the raging increase, catastrophic prices in Poland and the helplessness of the Government of Law and Justice, it would be necessary to lean on what is happening in energy, what is happening in the fuel market in 2020 and 2021, because this is precisely the range that is worth mentioning. The annual contract for energy supply for the next year was used - listen - from 225 PLN to 460 PLN for 1 MWh. This is the information from yesterday. That's a price increase of almost 150%. In Poland's history there have never been such contracts, there have never been such prices, and we are told that we have energy coming from Polish coal (Dawn), cheap Polish coal and from Polish power plants. I won't mention the gas anymore, because there the price went up quarterly, from quarter to quarter by 140%. But we all know that. The basic question is: What has the government been doing in the last year, in the last months, when we talked about the need to reduce VAT, to protect 2 million Poles living in extreme poverty? What did the government do? This was mentioned by the Platform and also by the European Commission. The lack and helplessness of the Polish government in protecting Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u162	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek. If there isn't, then Mr Tomasz Kostus. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[I'm here, I'm here, but you're the marshal who's speeding up.]] But I'm not rushing an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u163	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There are currently 25 thousand employees in police structures. civil servants, of which 26% receives a salary below the lowest national salary, which is - I remind you - 2800 PLN. As of January 1, the officers will receive the increases they fought for, which they have negotiated for a long time, in the amount of PLN 677, but the employees... [[Applause]] Bravo, yes, bravo, I join these applause too, but don't forget that civil servants received only PLN 167 raise. In the context of galloping prices and inflation, which drains the pockets of Poles, it is incomprehensible, it is unacceptable, it is crazy, Mr President. Remember that when you applaud like that. I also remind you that in October this year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The agreement between the Police Workers' Union Organizations has taken place on this issue with 14 requests. They haven't received an answer until today. To conclude, Mr. Marshal, two things. I appeal to the Minister - I see whether he is - to take urgent and comprehensive action to improve the situation of civil police workers. That's one thing. Secondly, I ask you, Minister, to provide comprehensive information on the planned changes in salaries for civilian workers. This appeal also refers to the judicial staff and the prosecution's office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u164	Thank you very much. As you can see, I am not restricting anyone's vote, but the list of Members of the Committee is very long and I ask you to be brief. [[Yeah, yeah.]] Now I would very much like to ask Mrs Anna April to speak and then Mr Czesław Siekierski will speak. [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no Member.]] Mr? [[And that's not what it says.]] It was a special situation. The professor has asked for this and any Member who asks for it would be treated the same way. [[Absolutely.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Other responsibilities call on me, and I wanted to address a very important issue relating to the income situation in agriculture. The increase in production costs is so huge in terms of inputs and fertilisers and fuel, energy, that this threatens to maintain and open production in the following years. So this will have consequences in reducing production levels next year. Of course, you can say a little jokingly that it will contribute to the green order, but not about such order. What we're talking about is a reduction in production and a threat to food security. That's one thread. The second thread is the problem of the income level of a large proportion of the low population. This income (the Bell) is so low that it threatens poverty. It's about pensioners, it's about unemployed people. What will be the benefits that counteract this situation, increasing poverty and poverty among a large part of society? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u166	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Czesław Mroczek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a result of shockingly wrong decisions, the PiS government has caused enormous damage to energy. This is Ostrołęka, Turów and many other examples. Losses, damage is multi-billion-dollar. As a result of these decisions, as well as the misguided economic and financial policy in other sectors, we have unprecedented high inflation, which is shown by a great price. The PiS government has for a long time not taken measures that would stop inflation because it has benefited from this inflation. Bigger taxes were coming in. This money, of course, was directed towards achieving the goals of the party. The government forgot about the budgetary sphere on which the smooth functioning of the state is based. I would like to mention teachers, because the situation, the material condition of teachers is so dramatic that the profession lacks new people (the bell) at the moment, lacks teachers. There is no good future for a country without a good education system, ladies and gentlemen. Urgent action is needed in this matter. But the government doesn't think about the state, the PiS government doesn't think about the budgetary sphere. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] The PiS government is thinking about their own electoral interests. You guys are campaign propaganda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u168	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Paul Rychlik. If there isn't, then Mrs Krystyna Sibińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Job offers: inspector in the department - PLN 3106, senior referee of the management office team - PLN 2861, gross basic salary, senior accountant for social services in the financial and budget department - PLN 3670, officer for law firms and archives in the department for the protection of classified information - PLN 3050. These are police offers for civilian workers. Are these decent working conditions? Are these decent pay conditions? No, because civilian workers write to us. They say that they are the lowest earning group not only in the home affairs department, but also in the entire budget area. They don't have the same powers or salaries as officers. The remuneration of a police staff member shall constitute the basis for remuneration and the service allowance of years. And nothing else. The current situation of the police staff is dramatic, so they write to us: "Please help the Members of the Republic of Poland. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] We, Members of the Republic of Poland, are asking for civil police personnel. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u170	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Grammar.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Poland is not at risk of inflation, it is rather the spectrum of deflation that is what you used to say, the President of the National Bank of Poland and the Prime Minister just over a year ago. Then, of course, the NBP president changed his mind, because in July this year. it has already announced 4% of inflation with a downward trend over the years. However, reality is ruthless - the price increase reported in October this year reaches 7% , and month to month prices rise by 1 percentage point. Your famous basket. Dude today costs more than 1/3 more than it cost in 2015. With short-term planning, President Glapiński also has some problems. The increase in interest rates would be a school mistake," said the President in October, which was less than a month before he made one of the biggest interest rate increases in recent years. I very much appreciate the role of President Glapiński in the development of Polish numismatics (Dzinek), but I would expect responsible statements and equally responsible actions from the president of the central bank. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u172	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Kryj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u173	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, High Izbo! There have been numerous talks in this Chamber about the rise in electricity prices and the impact of this on inflation. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, electricity prices are rising and the rise in CO2 emission allowances is very important. These rights prices began to rise when the green order was declared. This was due to the fact that prices from twenty-six Euros exceeded 50 Euros, which took place in June 2021 and already exceeded 60 Euros after two months. It is said that they will reach up to 100 euros. 15% electricity prices are the prices of CO2 emission allowances. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question: Are there work at the level of the European Commission and the European Parliament that will lead to these ridiculously high prices of CO2 allowances being reduced, and will they be stopped? Without this, the price of electricity will continue to rise, and we will bear the consequences. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u174	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Rząsa.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to PiS politicians, the economic crisis, galloping inflation, expensive, high fuel prices, a drastic increase in gas and electricity charges, looting Polish entrepreneurs, which you have for smart guys, are just dry numbers, and basically this is something positive, because here are the increases in revenue to the Polish budget. You will have more money for your foundations, associations, megalomaniac projects from the Polish People's Republic, TVP and its hideous propaganda. But I ask myself, " Where is an ordinary person in all this? And did the workers so-called. budget is a worse sort of thing? I ask this on behalf of the subcarpathian civilian police staff, the Bieszczady staff and many other Border Guard units. I ask on behalf of my fellow teachers, on behalf of nurses, and on behalf of all employees of the broadly understood budgetary sphere, without which the functioning of the state is in principle impossible. These people freeze the valorisation of wages (the bell), because in the opinion of the current rulers they have less needs. But contrary to what Prime Minister Morawiecki said, Poles will not allow their aspirations to be extinguished, especially those working in the budgetary sphere. Therefore, by their authority, I call for them to be restored immediately not only to the dignity of work but also to a decent wage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a question about the price of coal and the situation on the coal market. Prices from hours 12: Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa - 200 zł to 400 zł, ecogroszek Mine Janina - 615 zł, sale to coal power plant - 220 zł net. China's prices have increased by 26 years in September. According to Bloomberg, this drives the national energy crisis, rapidly rising coal prices. While we have a purely speculative situation in Poland, in the European and global markets we have a situation related to po-COVID, which is driving the economy with increased demand, but also the Russian state policy and the creation of gas thread, which will hiccup in the energy markets. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u178	Thank you very much. Is Mr Dariusz Rosati in the Chamber? There isn't. So, Mrs Ewa Szymańska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u179	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! The concern of today's opposition about people at risk of poverty, especially in the budgetary sphere, is admirable. I have a question: What have you done to make the budget pay higher? It was your government that made the wages frozen. It was during your rule that people shopped for a notebook. It was during your reign that the children were hungry. And today I read an article on one of the portals that even analysts from Business Insider are amazed that the prices of groceries from the basic basket did not increase at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I have a question for the government: What government has prepared measures to prevent people from experiencing an increase in energy prices? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[...100%.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u180	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to draw the attention of the High House and ask for the staff of the Civil Border Guard. It is in the hands of the PiS, if you speak the language that you have just spoken, that there has been a gross division between the officers and the civil servants of the Border Guard. There's over 3,000 people working at the Border Guard. civil servants who perform most of the same tasks as officers, meanwhile the lowest salary of an officer working in the position: the specialist is 4200 and the civil servant at the same position - 2100. The remuneration of employees who perform the same tasks cannot be spread out in this way. What's going to happen here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask that these discrepancies, this injustice, be included in the budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u182	Thank you very much, Member. Is Mr Marcin Souszek in the room? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u183	Dear Marshal, Ministers! Mr Warzech summarized the extremely tragic Polish governments of the Civic Platform and PSL, so we will no longer go back to what has been said. However, I would also like to draw your opposition Members' attention to the fact that inflation trends are observed worldwide, including in most countries of the European Union, regardless of national policy pursued here in the Republic of Poland. As we have heard, inflation in Germany is currently at the highest record level in 28 years with our western neighbour: 4.5%. [[Seven of us.]] Today we are all inhabitants of the global village. I would like to ask the honourable ministers whether, in view of this situation, the government is planning to take joint action to tackle this phenomenon, which is particularly increasing during the pandemic, within the framework not only of national actions (the Bell), but also of the EU, in connection with the implementation of the common anti-inflationary policy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u184	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Carrot. If there isn't, Mr Tadeusz Wozniak. There isn't any either. Then I would like to ask Mrs Mirosława Nykiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Inflation is the middle name of the PiS, and it is expensive - the Prime Minister of Morawiecki. He was the one who said in 2013 that people should lower their expectations and work, I say nicely, for a proverbial bowl of rice. I ask you, Prime Minister, is this the moment to make 25,000. Police civil servants worked for a proverbial bowl of rice? Because they can't afford anything else, because you've been planning a raise for them since the new year: 160 PLN. Many of them will not even reach the minimum wage level, and it is thanks to them in many cases that district posts and commands function. You say you don't have any money. Get a statement. Because once you say you have an immeasurable amount of money and the whole world admires you and stands in line, and if you have to raise the budget, you can't afford it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or is it enough not to steal? That's what your Beata Szydło said. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u186	Ms Anna Ewa Cicholska will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u187	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! State of parliamentarians of the opposition! You know very well that we have a difficult situation at the Polish-Belarusian border and a fourth wave of pandemics. You're constantly misleading public opinion, disorganizing public life. Inflation applies to all countries of the European Union, all over the world. You know exactly what's causing it. Maybe it's worth sitting down together, talking substantively, to minimize the problem? Dear Minister, I have a question: What measures are being taken by individual ministries (the Bell), the government to minimise the effects of inflation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u188	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd also like to make a request for civilian uniforms. On 27 October, a modernisation plan was announced at the press conference, including for uniformed services. I therefore ask: What will be the participation of civil workers whose salaries are already so low and flattened? The remuneration tables go well below the lowest national level, so almost everyone gets the lowest one evenly. I want to claim this on behalf of, among other things. employees of the Silesian Border Guard Division in Raciborz, but not only. I would like to remind you, in connection with the cost, of the situation of social guardians who no longer receive remuneration (the bell) but only the compensation of their expenses, which are growing at an alarming rate and are not compensated for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u191	The cumulative increase in prices of goods and services in 2008 and 2015 is more than 18% under the Civic Platform and PSL. With the governments of the United Right from 2016 to last year, this was within 9%. But when you guys were in charge, I didn't hear any of those speeches. [[That's not true.]] I didn't hear you. Count it out. That's GUS data. [[Applause]] I haven't heard you say that you need to do this, these 18%s. , the citizens returned, it wasn't there. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2018, when inflation for goods and services prices was at 1.5% , in Łódź, the authorities of Łódź from the Civic Platform and the SLD have publicly announced that... [[♪ The bell ♪]] They announced that they had to increase the prices of water and sewage disposal services five times, because it is the government that owes it - with inflation of 1.5%. And right now, ladies and gentlemen... I'll show you because it's very interesting. The prices of goods... Prices related to theatres and museums... Mr President, we are moving to conclusions. Service prices are expected to rise by 30% because there is inflation. You're crazy, aren't you? This is your information policy, disinformation policy. Please take the floor of Mr Witold Zembaczyński. This country has caused price increases resulting from the fatal energy security policy that you have been practicing. [[Applause]] [[You've been in charge for six years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u192	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u193	Dear Marshal, Dear Messengers and Members! I have a question for the Minister. Do you know what kind of country it is in which young, ambitious people go to five-year studies, end up with a master's degree in administration, go to work in a regional audit office and get PLN 2360? Or they go to work in the State Trade Inspection, where 1/4 of the employees earn 3240 PLN gross. I'll tell the Minister what country this is. This is a country where elites of young people who want to be officials, unfortunately, become miserable because these salaries are dramatically too low, not allowing for a decent life, not allowing for self-development and de facto slashing the wings of all these ambitious people. How? You want this country to be effectively managed? How? is it supposed to function well if you do not care about your own official elites, about your own employees in the trade inspection (the bell) or the regional accounting chambers? Instead of civil servants, you create wretches in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u194	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u195	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Poland is not the red island on the map of Europe or the world, and not only is inflation in Poland, and not only in Poland we have an increase in prices. [[It's the highest.]] Price increases and inflation are all over Europe, all over the world. Many factors influence this and we are not going to analyse these factors now. But, ladies and gentlemen, you can stand next to it, but you can also do something about it. The Polish government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is not standing with his hands on it, he is leaning on it. There are already announced increases in budget areas, in uniform services, in education. These are the tangible actions of the government in this matter to support the people in a difficult situation. I would like to ask the Minister what other consumer protection measures (the bell) for Poles are envisaged by the government in the near future. Let me remind you that the 13th and 14th pensions have already been paid at this point. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u196	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Czesław Hoc.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u197	Dear Marshal, Minister! Minister! High Seym! To opponents: Do you remember children taken from a biological family only because of poverty? Or hungry kids in schools? Do you remember making basic purchases... [[Don't lie to me.]] Excuse me. My fellow Member, please do this... [[But how can you?]] Okay, but you can't talk to me like that. Do you remember making basic purchases in shops in villages and small towns on the so-called. A notebook or a line? Do you remember the dramatic moments that every third patient, mostly seniors, walked away from the pharmacy window because he couldn't afford to buy drugs? Do you remember the scandalous redemption of Polish land by the so-called. poles and foreign capital? Or do you just remember the slave hourly rate and the high unemployment rate? Dear opposition, do you have the courage and the audacity to accuse the current government of a policy of depleting society? After all, in your governments there was a strategy: there is no money and there will be no money. [[But you've been in charge for six years.]] And we are gradually strengthening the family's potential, restoring the dignity of the employee, investing in children and pursuing a specific senior policy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is about introducing sustainable development so that no municipality can function far from the road, etc., etc. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Read the budget bill. There won't be any meds for seniors at all.]] [[Voice from the room:]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u198	The question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u199	Dear Marshal, Ministers! High Izbo! The subject of inflation is an important topic for us, we do not run away from such a discussion as parliamentarians of the Law and Justice, but we want to speak honestly here about the facts, and the facts are that in the last 5 years always wage increases have exceeded inflation levels. In 2019 inflation was 2.3% and wage growth was more than 3 times higher, 7.2%. If we are talking about facts, then, of course, if not for an ambitious social policy and a responsible fiscal policy of the Government of Law and Justice, undoubtedly this year, there would be a much bigger problem in 2021. If the Platform had been in charge and there were no such great family policy programmes, the 500+ family, the good start expedition or the issue of increased social benefits, or the issue of the minimum wage increase... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Clerk's salary.]] ...from PLN 1750 to PLN 2,800, what would the situation of Poles be today? I have a question for the Minister and the Minister: I would like you to inform us when the government will present an anti-inflationary shield project and whether the Minister has such information that in local governments, e.g. in the richest local government in Poland in Warsaw, any anti-inflationary package is being prepared... [[100 years from now.]] ...because in Warsaw we have high prices of water, sewage... Proceed to conclusions, sir. ...costs of public transport tickets, parking prices. [[You know you can't add up.]] If we have Rafał Trzaskowski, Vice-President of the Civic Platform, he could present at least one country an anti-inflationary proposal in the Warsaw government. That's what the people of Warsaw ask me, and this is important for the Warsaw people. [[He can't.]] You have a problem with that. I understand. I'm leaving you with this problem. Mr. President, I see... First of all, I don't like hypocrisy in this room and I protest against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Your time is up and you're talking nonsense.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u200	Mr President, if you don't mind... Thank you, sir, but I have the impression, Mr Trzaskowski, that a day without Rafał Trzaskowski is a day lost. [[You're obsessed with Mr. Trzaskowski.]] In this list, the list of persons enrolled in the questions was exhausted. You're welcome now... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Are you still talking about Rafal Trzaskowski? [[But President Trzaskowski can't do it because the rules don't allow it.]] Has Mrs Leszczyn authorised Mrs Skowronska to speak? [[Mr. Marshal, you're in charge.]] So here you are, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna. [[Voice from the Chamber: But the Member upset me...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: The Member has been here for so many years...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! I must remind you of the current information requested by the Civic Coalition. Well, we were going to discuss inflation, that is, expensively, and the salaries in the budget area, the salaries of teachers, nurses, civil servants of the police, officials, court officials, prosecutors, and you spoke completely of things and not about them. [[Applause]] The speech by the Minister and Members of the PiS did indeed correlate dangerously with the words of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who once said that people should work for a bowl of rice. I will ignore with silence the vulgarity that the Prime Minister used to use. [[Applause]] Moravian words proved prophetic. And that's probably why the Minister's speech was devoted to benefits, not rewards. It is true that during the reign of the PiS [[Applause]] Officials, public administration workers have become economic parias, and it is true that the social policy of PiS, because the minister spoke about it, can be combined with inflation, because all the advantages that were intended to make Poland a country of milk and honey flowing, living+, 500+, even a cow+, accumulated in one great advantage - this is expensive+. Yoga in shops, gas stations. This is the only project of the PiS government you've ever done. It went well for the government, because you will have several billion more in the budget this year, and probably a few tens more in the future, but unfortunately this is a failure for all taxpayers, consumers, this is the racket you have been downloading from Poles for several years. I'll say it again: for a few years. [[Applause]] So, as you ask, is it true that the causes of inflation are external, whether it is true that the central bank's policy to loosen quantitatively caused inflation, whether it is true that the energy crisis is to blame, then I will tell you: no, it is the irresponsible, violent government of PiS and the incredible president of the National Bank of Poland is to blame, [[Applause]] who ruined his reputation and the reputation of the central bank. And you have no right to talk about us freezing our wages for at least three reasons. Why? First of all, when we froze our wages in the budget, we didn't raise our wages. [[Applause]] And the only prizes for eight years were awards for four ministers, and that's after one reward. So you have no right to talk about how we froze. [[Applause]] Secondly, it is less painful to freeze wages, as we are dealing with very low inflation or even deflation, and so it was in our time. Otherwise, it hurts to freeze when we have galloping costs. Last thing: During our governments, we had two major crises, and unemployment, Mr President, as we had 14%, was 28% in Spain. So don't be silly around here. You, on the other hand, had four years of great economics. And you're comparing salaries in the budget area with those of our time? Shame on you. [[Applause]] So listen carefully to who owes inflation in Poland and the crazy price. First of all, the government. Why? Because you have led to the collapse in investments of the largest in 25 years, pumped economic growth with consumption, not investments, financed social transfers with public debt, lied that it was tax sealing, raised 40 taxes and danin or introduced new ones, because during the pandemic you introduced a new order, which means you are raising taxes for producers, so prices will go up again, and for 6 years you have done nothing to improve the energy mix, on the contrary you have done everything to make the energy mix worse, finally your adventurousness, complexes, the desire to take the courts to cover your own crimes, you have led to such a conflict with the European Union that we have no money from KPOs and this year neither patients nor students will benefit from them... [[Game in the O.R.]] Can Mr Krajewski speak a little quieter? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...no self-government, no entrepreneur. This, on the other hand, is the cause of the weak gold. And finally, why President Glapiński? Because he pursued a party business rather than a state one, ruined the independence of the central bank, ignored inflation and introduced chaos in communication, the Monetary Policy Council reacted too late to inflation, weakened the golden speculation on the market, to which he admitted, finally destroyed the reputation of the central bank and made it a Byzantium for the PiS activists and for the PiS activists, and finally tried to trick Poles that inflation would not affect the wealth of their wallets. Then I propose - the last sentence, Mr. Marshal - that he say that inflation does not affect the wealth of wallets, teachers, civil servants, nurses, officials, all those that make you work, and you think they're going to work for a bowl of rice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u202	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Patkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After this long, as well as the hot debate, it is worth to defy a few things, but also to speak clearly about them. The opposition presents the current inflation, which, as the Members of the Law and Justice have also said here, we see, we understand what I will talk about further in my speech. We will present concrete proposals for its mitigation to Poles. On the other hand, when you present this inflation as an exceptional act of God, the disastrous effect of government policy, I would like to remind you that your experience in this area is far worse. First of all, in 2011, your government's inflation was 5%. That's not much less than it is now. Secondly, inflation was then completely different from today's. The financial crisis in 2009, in 2010 and 2011 was a demand crisis, currently a supply crisis. Broken supply chains, geopoliticalism in terms of Russian policy on halting gas supply for Europe as well as ideology - a green return that has stopped oil extraction in the United States - are also causing supply crises in the oil market. These international factors affect the whole world - Members have given concrete examples of specific countries - they also affect Poland. I'm going to say something very important right now. I'm talking about it in the middle of a speech, but this is a very important matter. Within a week, the government, Prime Minister Morawiecki, will present specific demands on the inflation shield, the shield package for Poles... [[It's like the PRL.]] ...both those energy poor and millions of Polish families, aimed at shielding... [[It's like the PRL.]] Mr. President, in the Polish People's Republic? Care for Polish families means Polish People's Republic? It's patriotic to me. If your concern for Polish families is PRL... [[After that, it's just lines and cards.]] ...then I sympathize with you and your constituents. [[Applause]] I feel sorry for your constituents. Every time you create government packages, you take advantage of historical experiences, it's normal. I also reached out to the 2011 experience of how the Platform was doing historically. Do you know how? You didn't have any cover package for Polish companies at the time of the financial crisis... [[Don't lie to me.]] ...you didn't create anything, you didn't offer anything. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[That's the answer to our questions? We didn't ask what we were doing in 2011.]] You didn't cover up Polish families. Unemployment in the country's passive attitude was 14% in January 2013 and 14.3% in March 2013 [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That was your response to inflation, and that was your proposal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, we're asking for a response.]] Not much, ladies and gentlemen. The next steps of the government Platform to protect Poles from inflation: the VAT increase in 2011. [[Could the Minister talk about it?]] Yes, this is your response to inflation: the VAT increase in 2011. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And one more thing: you have not achieved consolidation of public finances once - not once - since 2009. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal would have responded.]] Each year, the government deficit exceeded 3% And in your governments, despite the record unemployment when it comes to comparing crises when it comes to the absence of shields for entrepreneurs, you have had record unemployment and record deficits. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Would you please talk to the point?]] That's your response to inflation. [[Applause]] Minister, perhaps after you have issued this political manifesto, would you like to answer the questions you have asked? Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Yes, I am going to answer the question of remuneration in the state budget area. Let me remind you that inflation was also one of the elements. So I'm going to respond specifically to the charge that we're not raising salaries in the state budget area. In the 2015 budget law, the remuneration fund was 28 016 479 000. zł. In the 2016 budget law - already 29 917 million PLN. In 2017, 31 631 million PLN, in 2018, 32 808 million PLN, in 201935 291 million PLN, in 2020 before the amendment - 40 598 million PLN, after the amendment - 40 601 million PLN, in 2021 before the amendment - 40 913 million PLN, after the amendment - 43 27 million PLN. That's by the way. the alleged lack of raises. [[Applause]] Percent increase? Compared to 2012,60% growth in the case of the remuneration fund. [[Are you bald?]] And now, the year 2022... [[You've got the wrong table.]] 2022 - amendment of the budget law. Restoration of the national budget fund with the possibility to use 6% next year as well. [[Voice from the room: But discretionaryly.]] 2022 - raising the wage fund - 4,4% And again, a salary fund of 3%. I will also remind you that this is what frostbite is about when it comes to the amount of the social benefit fund. It's also worth saying... You are very fond of the European Commission's forecasts, and I will quote them. I will say again that we, the government and the whole camp of Law and Justice are aware of the problems arising from inflation. Therefore, through the inflation shield, on the one hand, we will carry out actions that will protect Poles from the consequences of really high inflation at this moment, we do not question this, but on the other hand we will also carry out actions to ensure that inflation is decreasing in the coming years. And if we look at the European Commission's autumn projections for 2021, the European Commission envisages an inflation rate of 5% for 2021 and 2022, respectively. and 5.2% But as early as 2023 - 2.6%. These are the forecasts of the European Commission, which I do not think of any special favor with the Polish government. And now there's one more thing I have to say. Here the NBP and President Glapiński were called. As Minister of Finance, it is not appropriate for me to refer in any way to the NBP's policy and review it, but one must say from this speaker, because I think that this opinion is lacking in the public debate. When last year we launched an aid shield for entrepreneurs, NBP used a quantitative relaxation mechanism for the first time in its history. He used it like a number of other countries. At the time of the previous crisis and the NBP president was President Belka, the NBP took a completely passive stance in response to this crisis. Absolutely passive. As a result, unemployment, which I mentioned earlier, was not significantly lower than it is now and the result was record levels of public deficits. [[The Union's policy was different, that's what we need to know.]] I have a request to the High House. If you judge NBP and President Glapiński, compare the activity of the current NBP Board with the activity of the Board of Directors of Mr Belka. It's a giant difference. The result was a record deficit, not clearly lower inflation and very high unemployment. Thanks to the work of President Glapiński, we can say, as dry as possible, that we have had a crisis caused by the COVID pandemic that has not yet ended. That's what we need to remember. And finally, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to say one thing and quote you here. It was sad to hear - it was a pity that Mr Nitras left, because that is to him - rude comments to Minister Schmidt during her speech. It was regrettable to hear ironic, often satirical speeches about the speeches of the parliamentarians. So for Mr. Nitras, but also for some of you, I'll quote Ignacy Krasicki's phrase: "Stop it, gentlemen, because you're having a bad time. For you, it's a game, it's about life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u204	And this phrase concludes the examination of this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The increase in inflation in recent months in Poland is not a local phenomenon, but it has a global, European and global dimension. This is undoubtedly the price of emerging economies from the biggest global pandemic crisis since World War II. In October this year inflation in the euro area rose to 4.1% year to year. In August, inflation was 3%. The inflation readings in many countries have now been at the highest level since 2008. By comparison, inflation was 8.2% in Lithuania year-to-year in October. , in Latvia - 6% , Estonia - 7,4% , in Spain - 5.5% , Ireland - 5.1% , in Germany - 4,6%. For symmetry, indicate how Poles' wages and purchasing power have changed in recent years. The Law and Justice Government has ensured that the increase in minimum wage remains higher than inflation. In 2014, the minimum wage was PLN 1680 gross, the average wage - PLN 3783 gross and the lowest hourly rate - PLN 9. This year's minimum wage is PLN 2,800 gross, the average wage of August 2021 is PLN 5843 and the minimum hourly rate is PLN 18,3. The government has already proposed aid for households that suffer from energy price increases in the form of a voucher, and the total aid is expected to cost PLN 3 billion. This aid is intended to cover 1 million households. At the moment, the Pole can buy more than 500 litres of petrol for his average salary than in 2012. What other forms of aid does the government provide for reducing the effects of inflation felt by Poles?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u206	We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2022 of the Year of Polish Romanticism (prints no. 1347 and 1578). I ask Mrs Joanna Lichocka to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2022 of the Year of Polish Romanticism. This resolution was created, among others. through grassroots, civic initiatives addressed to the Sejm from many different backgrounds. One who was probably the first or first to propose the establishment of the year 2022 of Polish Romanticism, was Professor Andrzej Fabianowski from the Faculty of Polish Studies at the University of Warsaw. This prominent Romanticist scholar has taken the initiative to petition Parliament on this matter. This petition was signed by 51 professors from universities from all over Poland and the Institute of Literary Research. These are representatives of academic centres such as Jagiellonian University, Warsaw University, Silesian University, Opole University, Warmińsko-Mazurski University, Adam Mickiewicz University, Gdańsk University and Rzeszowski University. It is indeed a great representation of outstanding representatives of Polish science, Polish humanities, who asked Parliament to establish this year. They also expressed their support for this initiative - in separate writings to Marshal Elizabeth Witek - the director of the Museum of Romanticism in Opinogóra, the director of the Museum of Literature. Adam Mickiewicz in Warsaw and director of the National Museum in Poznań. In a special letter to the Marshals of the Sejm of Elizabeth Witek, President Andrzej Duda addressed the announcement of the year 2022 by the parliament of Polish Romanticism. The president wrote: The central issue for romantics was freedom - the freedom of individuals and the nation among other people and against fate and history. Their works, the work of romantics grew organically from the heritage of the first, multi-national Republic of Poland. The year 2022 should be an opportunity to re-read the most outstanding works of that epoch and, above all, to ask questions about their actuality and importance for us now. The petition committee worked on the petition I was talking about, which was created on the initiative of Professor Andrzej Fabianowski, and sent this material to the cultural committee. This was one of the basics of the draft text of the resolution. I will tell you that the work on this project in the cultural committee was not controversial and it was actually a pleasure. I would like to read the text of this resolution because the Committee of Culture, after first reading and considering this proposal at its meeting on 17 September 2021, asks the High Sejm to adopt this draft. Here's his lyrics. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the establishment of the year 2022 by the Year of Romanticism of Poland. In 1822 Adam Mickiewicz's 'Ballads and Romance' appeared in Vilnius, contained in a poetic tome that marked the beginning of Polish romance. This was the first time that they saw the light of 'Romance', 'Dad's return, 'Świtezianka', 'Mrs. Twardowska', without which it is difficult to imagine the last two hundred years of Polish culture. What followed was unprecedented in Polish history. An era was born in which brilliant artists, thinkers and political activists formed the country of spiritual freedom in a situation of national bondage, developed programmes of independence, and brought Polish literature, music and painting to the rank of the leading achievements of European culture. Romanticism brought brilliant achievements in the literature of Adam Mickiewicz, Juliusz Słowacki, Zygmunt Krasiński and Cyprian Norwid, in the music of Fryderyk Chopin and Stanisław Moniuszko, in the paintings of Piotr Michałowski and Jan Matejka. These artists were Polish artists, and at the same time world artists, showing Polish values in their universal context. Without their works and Maurycy Mochnacki, Aleksandra Fredra, Antoni Malczewski, Seweryn Goszczyński, Wincenty Pol, Józef Ignacy Kraszewski, Theofil Lenartowicz, Kornel Ujejski, Artur Grottger, Maria Szymanowska and Narcyza Żmichowska we would not be who we are today. The literature and culture of Polish Romanticism have shaped the dimension and spiritual profile of Poles. The most important qualities that enable us to survive even the most dramatic attempts to destroy the nation have been developed and established. Honor, valor, patriotism, attachment to tradition, empathy to the fate of others and willingness to sacrifice, openness to other cultures and attachment to freedom - this canon of the value of the national community Romanticism transferred from the former Republic and defined again. Without Maurycy Mochnacki and his writings about free Poles, without Mickiewicz and Słowacki's Wieszcz, buried in royal crypts, because Poles recognized that the kings of Poland are equal, there would be no Pilsudski legions or Warsaw Uprisings. The modern messarianism of John Paul II and the unique 'Solidarity' movement in the history of worlds grew out of Romanticism. The memory of Polish Romanticism is therefore the memory of the most important signs defining the national identity. In 2022, the two hundredth birthdays of this epoch come and this is a good reason to remind us of the spiritual deposit left for us by romantic heroes, artists, and thinkers. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland - responding to the petition 51 researchers of romanticism representing the Polish Academy of Sciences and all academic centers in the country and fulfilling the appeal of circles gathered in the Academic Civil Clubs. President Lech Kaczyński - announces the year 2022 as the Year of Romanticism of Poland. It seems to me that there is full agreement of all groups and this resolution can be adopted unanimously. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u208	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Joanna Lichocka will be the first to speak again - so not the first, but the first of the catalogue on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would of course like to say that we support this resolution. It is very necessary. We all need a year of romance to remind ourselves of those characters that created our modern language and our modern, modern thinking about Poland, about freedom, about reality. But the point is that, as Maurice Mochnacki wrote, we should establish ourselves a little in our own way. Maurycy Mochnacki, politician, publicist, soldier, literary critic, wrote among others. Yes: Not enough that we are, you need to know that. The more we know, the more we expand, the stronger we are. Whoever is and doesn't have recognition of himself, or who is, doesn't know, it's as if he isn't at all. It is this epoch of romanticism, these great, brilliant creators, artists, politicians, painters, philosophers, politicians who have established us in our being for decades and centuries to come. It is worth to remember them, it is worth discussing them, and rethinking our identity, culture, roots can be the task of the Year of Romanticism of Poland to acknowledge itself in being once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u210	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski to speak and present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Civic Coalition Club will, of course, support this resolution, because it is very much needed for us to be able to verify today through the ideas of romantics, through their human condition, through their politicality. I would like to say one thing in a very clear, unambiguous way. I have no doubt that refugees and emigration of Polish artists, Mickiewicz, Krasiński, Szopena, Słowacki, Norwid entered the bloodstream of Polish culture. It's kind of the paradigm of our value system. And today, it's hard to imagine otherwise. It is worth recalling that Adam Mickiewicz III part of the "Dziadów" so they will rise to reflect on what happened in Poland, he wrote in Dresden, today we would say that in Germany. Juliusz Slovakski,.Kordiana, wrote in Geneva, published it in Paris, and thus also in exile. The non-Divine comedy was founded in 1833 in Paris, which was published in 1834 in France. You can multiply examples of all these great works that today shape our consciousness and our imagination. I will quote a passage from Alina Witkowska's book Hi and scandals about the migration experience of Poles. This is an extremely important book, which may be somewhat forgotten, but in the context of today's events, especially in the context of events at the Polish-Belarusian border, it may be worth recalling a fragment of this book. Witkowska writes: Well, the road that was going towards France, because it was the original destination country of emigrants, played an important role in the formation of the awareness of refugees and their inner well-being, because a large part of the former insurgents had a triumphant journey through Germany. Nearly everywhere they found enthusiastic people, often greeted their triumphal gates, and organizational committees on the marching route ran out in banquets to honor heroes, provide money and provide comfortable rest. The triumphal march through Germany had far-reaching and multiple effects on the formation of Polish emigration. In the sphere of political ideas, he established the conviction of solidarity of the peoples of Europe, the rapidness of the revolutionary explosion and the readiness of the Germans - excluding Prussia - to shed blood for freedom. In the mental and mental sphere, the enthusiasm of the Germans effectively prevented the formation of the complex of uninvited guests, intrusive wanderers, who came to some peaceful homes, asking for support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u212	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the parliamentary club Left will be presented to Mrs Paulina Matysiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of Parliament's Left Club, I have the honour to present my position on the establishment of 2022 as the Year of Polish Romanticism. Romanticism is a particularly important trend for Poland in history, which has not only shaped our national culture, but has also made a huge impression on the widely understood political thought. Romanticism arrives in Poland in an exceptional period when there is no Polish state, and Polish lands are under the rule of three invaders. A whirlwind, which puts in the centre the domination of feelings over reason, which exposes individualism and the difference of the individual through its resistance to the present reality and a tight corset of restraining standards, is placed on the very susceptible ground of the young intelligence of the enslaved nation. Passion, affection, rebellion against enlightened order, mysticism and messianicism intertwine into an inseparable thread which becomes the language of expression not only of personal emotions and experiences of individuals, a romantic hero, an artist, but also becomes the language of expression of aspirations and aspirations for national freedom, self-determination of the political community, longing for lost homeland and willingness to sacrifice oneself for a greater purpose. Romanticism shaped the canon of our literature and had a huge impact on the national freedom of thought. Just mention the writing work of Adam Mickiewicz or Juliusz Słowacki, Jan Matejka's paintings and Fryderyk Szopen's music. Polish romance also brought the announcement of the future struggle for women's freedom and equality in social, political and economic life, even in the person of Narcisza Żmichowska and the Enthusiast Circle, which rooted on Polish ground feminist thought. The idea that in the future blooms in the emancipation movement and leads women to gain political rights at the beginning of the 20th century. The year of Polish Romanticism, however, would be an empty gesture, only a shot at cheer if it were limited only to peaning in honor of the past, and not a cause for discussion of a romantic legacy that also sounds today in Polish culture and today's political thought. I would like the year 2022 to be a chance to have an honest, also critical look at the past epoch along with its achievements, but not to put out the heat in the breasts of romantics, but to encourage them to the challenges of the 21st century. So instead of blindly celebrating losing messianicism or altruistic suicide, let the romantic idea rekindle the Polish soul in the pursuit of a world based on love, freedom, equality and solidarity between people. May this romantic heat also ignite the flame of hope for a change in this House. Together, young friends!... In the happiness of everything there are all goals. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u214	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Rzepa will now present the position of the Parliamentary Club in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u215	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The achievements of Polish Romanticism are the treasury of masterpieces of literature and culture of the Polish people. Such poets as Adam Mickiewicz, poet, playwright, publicist, author of Dziadów, Konrada Wallenroda, Pana Tadeusz, or Juliusz Słowacki, author of Kordiana, Balladyny, Beniowski - from the 1960s to the end of the 19th century. - recognized as national tidings, creators of inspired, brilliant, prophetic, greatest artists of the Polish nation. This epoch is widely recognized in Poland as one of the most interesting and most important because of its deep connection with human life. These relationships were present in all periods and ages, but in Romantic times they have special value, and we can see them reflected throughout the centuries to come. The most important element of the culture over which romanticism prevailed was literature, but it cannot be claimed that the work of romantics is merely literature. Romanticism was considered so important because it is most closely connected with life, with a story that is so important for Poles. The age of Mr. Tadeusz has created a lifestyle, a perception of beauty, a relationship with metaphysical elements. It is also a huge emphasis on the value of the soul of man, as well as specific personalities, individualities possessing qualities that reflected on the whole vision of the world in romanticism. This is demonstrated by the ability to control the mind, not just by the various fields of culture. This fact tells us that romanticism has been able to impose a certain type of behavior Not just the unit, but the whole community. With such great importance, it is impossible to forget the works of the epoch in different areas of life. And here we can talk about the great legacy and national will that left romanticism. In retrospect, the point of contact between the pen and historical events is interesting for contemporary literary and historical experts. We also know that they were groundbreaking in the history of Poland. This literary-historical coherence should be highlighted here. It also seems interesting to receive and interpret the work of romantics by later writers and thinkers. During the development of capitalism, there was no place for love and spiritual aggressions, patriotism, and concepts such as "mesianism" or "prometheism" have been forgotten. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives Marek Biernacki I would like to inform you that of course our club will vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u216	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Arthur Dziambor to present the position of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u217	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A beautiful journey into the past. You can think about the times in which romance was discussed at school, and remember those works and how we considered them, what we thought about them, how our perception of it changed over the years of adulthood, because, remembering those times, we are able to present today those feelings that accompanied us, a certain laurel. Romanticism is primarily the strength of feelings, showing them in the extreme form, in the strongest form. So like love, it's to die, like hate, it's to die. Those feelings were put beyond reason, unfortunately very often. These were the patterns shown at the time to teach us to show us that our feelings should be as strong as possible. Patriotism--lost, crazy, deadly. Fighting for yours, of course, what should now in some way accompany you always. The beautiful role of poetry, the complexity of characters, the dramatic characters, which were both good and bad, which did good and bad things, which each time showed us that there were no heroes always crystal, that there would always be some mistake somewhere. Indeed, the attachment of romanticism to this emotional sphere, to dreams, to mysticism, to fantasy, was something that touched us. Although I personally am a bigger fan of positivism than romanticism and definitely instead of the cult of the individual who was present in romanticism, the will to worship science, the philosophy of knowledge, the idea of work and reform by this knowledge acquired, and I hope that this positivism will be what will dominate our society, however I understand the heritage and appreciate the huge impact. Privately, all I can say is that in a large part of romanticism I had the opportunity to base my senior work, which I wrote in the form of a huge criticism of this epoch, suggesting that these attitudes that were promoted at the time were totally negative attitudes and should be considered in this way. Out of respect, of course, we will vote (the bell) in favour, and I leave my opinion to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u218	Thank you very much, sir. Such a digression, however, that the worship of the individual was accompanied by perhaps more different epochs than romanticism. [[Also.]] I would like to ask Mr Michał Grammar to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u219	Dear Marshal, High Seym! How much strength is there in the achievements of Polish Romanticism, I strongly learned in October this year in the Hall of the National Philharmonic. This was the second stage of the 18th Chopin Competition. On stage, Bruce Liu, Canadian, piano genius, prestigitator and wizard of this instrument. We didn't know yet that he was going to win this edition of the competition. In the finale of your recital game Andante spianato et Grande Polonaise Es major Fryderyk Chopin, because it is the only competition in the world where only one composer plays. It is a musical journey through the opening work of nocturne for bravado notes of Polish folk dance. Everything is given in the virtuoso style of brillante. The silent delight of the audience from all over the world, which absorbs every sound, and the thrilling pride that it is ours, that it is Polish, that all these people came from all over the world to Warsaw to hear the works of a Pole whose music has become a determinant of what is perfectly beautiful, a specialty of elegance, the definition of polotium, synonymous with momentum. This excellent Polish music written in France, on exile, played by the Canadian on the Italian piano and reflection that in the mid-19th century at the concert in the Paris Conservatory hall, the same piece played by the author caused similar admiration, similar excitement, aroused Polish pride, moved deep hidden strings and did not allow to forget the Polish matter, which so effectively and so heartlessly suppressed the contemporary politics. And this awareness that it is in these sounds that the Polish note sounds for 200 years that these sounds, this music is one of our business cards, a card of the highest possible quality, the highest possible class. This music arouses emotions and reflections. That is why we should adopt this resolution. As the applicant said, we should take it unanimously and use every moment to promote the great achievements of our romantics at any length and latitude. Circle of Members Poland 2050 with great pleasure and with great pride will vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u220	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? If not, I close the list of Members of the Committee for Questions. I've set the time to ask you a question - one minute. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to express my deepest surprise at the initiative presented. I would also like to express even more hope from this place, because an excellent group of Members who have responded to this project, and the rapporteur herself, Joanna Lichocka, must know that the era of romanticism is not only a period in which feelings and intuition have been put before reason and science, but also a period of protests against dictatorship, love for freedom and radical opposition to segregation on grounds of sexual orientation, sex or race. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the initiative therefore an indication that changes will take place in Poland in 2022? Will Poles regain full freedom, freedom of assembly, freedom of speech and civil liberties in the year of Romance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u222	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about a parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 of Polish Romanticism. The fact that 2022 is to be the Year of Polish Romanticism, which, as we all know, was a time of protest against dictatorship and division, a time of love for freedom and equality. As this is another resolution on the patronage of 2022, it is a joy that everyone supports this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u224	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u225	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I think that for each Pole the period of romance is somehow important. In each of us there is a very strong part of this era, therefore this resolution, this initiative seems to be as correct as possible, I think it should look forward to a certain continuation in the form of practical actions. Therefore, I would very much ask that the government answer in writing to the question: What action is it going to take to honour the representatives of this era properly and to strengthen the presence of their achievements in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u226	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u227	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today we are in the middle of a migration crisis at the border. Tens of thousands of innocent people are used cynically by Alexander Lukashenka so that he can strengthen his power. He uses these people and treats them like pawns on a chessboard. How do you, Members of the Law and Justice, understand the message of Part III of the Acts? The fact that you deeply believe in Polish messianics is noticeable. You love reminiscing about the past. You often lie to her for your own good. You love to go back to the time of the greatness of the Polish state, without seeing completely unpleasant historical experiences. In the third part of "Dziadów" Mickiewicz emphasizes the pain of the loss of statehood by Poles. Are humanitarianism and good international relations foreign to law and justice? The state that we are building today must be based on traditions and customs, but from the past we must draw the right conclusions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because the future is built on the foundations of the past. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u228	Thank you very much. I don't think Mr Francis Sterczewski is in the room. Then I would like to ask the floor of Mr Thomas Olichwer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Commemorative resolutions, such as those that are being processed today, should not raise any negative doubts or emotions among Members, because their intention is to celebrate important and important events or characters that matter to our Polish history or tradition. Unfortunately, however, it is different. Very often, the draft resolutions prepared by the PiS Members contain information, to be precise, not entirely consistent with historical truth or political correctness. I will not go into detail, the state, and in particular the members of the cultural committee know exactly what I mean. But on this occasion I would like to express my opposition to the politicisation of such resolutions. Don't change history, because even if you vote it out, our smart nation isn't gonna buy it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u230	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Claudia Jachira.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u231	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When establishing 2022 the Year of Polish Romanticism, let us not forget that Mickiewicz, Slovak, Norwid or Chopin were also refugees, they also had to flee, seek refuge, suffer poverty. And yet almost 200 years ago, in the era of great powers and not of democratic states, someone gave them shelter, allowed them to stay. I haven't heard one of them create in the cold in the woods. If they were treated as if two centuries later we were treating people from the East, would there be famous Chopin mazurkas that we are proud of the whole world? Would Mickiewicz create Mr. Tadeusz, or could his Conrad be in conflict with God? Let's remember that they're out there in the cold, who knows if there's less capable poetry from Syria, Kurdistan and Iraq. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's give them a chance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Porzucek will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u233	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It seemed that it was difficult to find a project that should be combined more than the one we are talking about right now. And yet it turned out that for a large part of Members of the opposition - the Civic Coalition and the Left - this is another baton that you can put together by the Polish government. This is absolutely outrageous. It was obvious that this would be the speech by Mrs Jachira, but what Mr Szopiński, Mrs Kozłowska is doing... How can you not be ashamed even in such a context to attack the Polish government? And one more thing. And remember, unfortunately, people of culture... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: But we are talking about romanticism.]] ...in Poland they also do not know what we have witnessed in the last days - Frederick Chopin was not a refugee. Stop lying, stop telling people things that are absolutely untrue. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u234	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u235	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Because Chopin was in exile and worked there for the rest of his life and created. I would like to remind you that in 2016 the director of the Polish Theatre in Wroclaw asked President Duda for an honorary patronage over the entire exhibition of Grandpas in our theatre. Today, President Duda is a great supporter and advocate of the Jubilee, if you can use such words in relation to this fantastic, great epoch. Then President Duda refused us this patronage, and I wonder why it actually happened. It is worth remembering, however, and it is worth recalling a few minor facts accompanying the great work of our outstanding artists. The lesson of 14th Adam Mickiewicz (The Bell) on the Catholic Index... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u236	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u237	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Romanticism was a beautiful era, but also difficult. The romantic thought, the artistic achievements were very important not only in the 19th century, but they projected on the next decades, in subsequent decades on art and historical events in Poland. Romanticism in Poland did not end in the 19th century, and the messianic and Martyristic attitude is still present in the social consciousness. A great literary historian, Prof. Maria Janion, wrote about the twilight of a romantic paradigm in the 1990s. Perhaps it is worth asking ourselves whether, while respecting the artistic and political achievements of romanticism, we should not seek to change the romantic-symbol paradigm and replace it with a critical paradigm, because only a critical individual (the Bell) is the foundation of democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u238	Thank you very much. And Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition, will ask the last question in this series.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u239	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! For the inhabitants of Wielkopolska, it would certainly be a closer era to positivism and the idea of organic work, as a result of a pragmatic approach to life, to work. However, there is no doubt that romance also plays a huge role in the life of every Pole, including the Greater Pole. You cannot imagine life without music and poetry, without culture, without art, therefore reminding people such as Adam Mickiewicz, Juliusz Słowacki, Cyprian Kamil Norwid, Jan Matejko, Stanisław Moniuszko or many others is extremely important, important and can affect our internal enrichment. I would therefore like to ask what actions the government is planning to take to promote these ideas of romance and the values they bring with them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u240	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition, is still late. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u241	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would very much like another year to become the Year of Polish Romanticism, so that we remember what our society looked like then. Do you know what connects Mickiewicz, Słowacki, Norwid, Krasiński, Chopin, Lelewel? They were all migrants. They left for various reasons: political, economic. Some would be banished from their homeland, others looking for a better place to live. They went to different places in the world: France, Italy, the United States or the Ottoman Empire. The artists moved to these countries, and the Polish population moved there. Great Emigration is one of the biggest movements of this type in the history of the world. Poland survived thanks to the help of other nations. Now's our chance to return the favor. Therefore, let us remember all this also during the Year of Polish Romanticism. Let us remember the experiences of Polish romantics. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u242	Thank you very much. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Joanna Lichocka. Madam, I allow, but I ask for a brief statement, because we are 45 minutes late.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u243	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! They say paper can handle anything. It seems to me that this tribune can handle anything, any foolishness. I would like to ask, in particular, Members from the rear benches who have said all kinds of foolishness to read a little bit about this era. I will gladly make available draft resolutions - or the committee can do so - which have been sent to the Parliamentary Committee. They were directed by the academic community, by outstanding Polish professors, experts of this era. Their work is the basis for the text of this resolution. I will also refer to the allegations of the alleged politicisation of this resolution. It's completely untrue, misses the facts. I'm a little surprised that the biggest opposition party wants to be represented by so little smart voices that came out here... [[Mr Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska: Member of the Commission.]] ...but that's your problem. [[Madam, you always say stupid things.]] Ma'am... Member, really. I'm sending it back to basic romantic textbooks. There are many backgrounds behind this resolution, regardless of political divisions. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: But no one...]] [[But we have the right to vote.]] Both professors from the Institute of Literary Research and professors from academic civic clubs are involved. Lech Kaczyński. Try not to mess it up at least. I know you're trying to ruin everything. Member... please. I'll say it again. This is a resolution that is not politicized, which reflects the essence of this era and which will, I hope, lead us to discuss what is relevant to us from the Romantic era and how we can talk about it again. This is also a reason to launch various government initiatives to celebrate this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u244	Thank you, Member. Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska, formal motion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u245	I just wanted to say, Madame, that you were the rapporteur. I listened to the discussion in this room and no one denied the legitimacy of this resolution. [[Nobody.]] Everyone thought it was a resolution that should be... [[There were charges of her...]] Ladies and gentlemen, please... Let's get to the end of this discussion. Can I finish? Everyone accepted it, only showed various aspects, which should be emphasized when we speak and prepare... [[It's worth it.]] ...the celebrations, events or publications of a given year. And the only words that spoke about politicising this resolution were from your side. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Right.]] [[Don't lie to me!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u246	The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on Parliamentary draft resolutions on solidarity on the protection of Polish borders and on the political and humanitarian crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border (prints No. 1758, 1759 and 1774). I kindly ask Mr Jarosław Zieliński to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u247	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Yesterday, the Committee on Culture and Media - meeting of the committee ended late at night - discussed the draft resolution on solidarity on the protection of Polish borders, print No. 1758, and the draft resolution on the political and humanitarian crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border, print No. 1759. During a very turbulent and long meeting, the committee discussed these projects, accompanying the context, and voted for the proposal that the project leading in further work should be a print project No.1774 submitted by a group of Members of the Parliamentary Club Legal and Justice about solidarity on the protection of Polish borders. The request to appoint a sub-committee composed of individual representatives of individual clubs was rejected in the vote. After this settlement, unfortunately - which I regret - Members of the opposition from the Civic Coalition and Left Clubs have left the meeting room of the committee and have not taken part in any further deliberations. The other Members worked on the document and tabled a number of amendments and proposals for a new wording of some parts of the draft resolution. Let me, Mrs Marshal, read this text jointly drawn up by the committee, of course, by those who have remained in the Chamber, without the opposition Members mentioned just now. It's fresh, so I think it'd be good to make it sound all the way from the Seym tribune. Resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on solidarity on the protection of Polish borders. The regime of Aleksandra Lukashenka attacked Poland using thousands of migrants brought by him to attack the borders of the Republic of Poland. For many years our country has not faced such a great threat to its security and integrity of borders. At the time of the rehearsal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, he expresses solidarity with the Polish government, together with all the institutions of the Polish state and those involved in defending Poland and Poles. The generations of our ancestors fought for free and independent Poland. Remembering their dedication today, it is our duty to stand side by side with border guards and police officers, soldiers of the Polish Army, including the Territorial Defence Army, and representatives of other services proudly wearing Polish uniforms and guarding the borders of the state and the sovereignty of our Homeland. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland also expresses its gratitude to the local community and to all those who provide support for our services on the Polish border and provide humanitarian aid to the victims of the crisis for which the Belarusian government is fully responsible. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland strongly condemns disinformation actions and other actions leading to the destabilisation of Poland. Ensuring the security of citizens against an external attack and guaranteeing the integrity of borders is the responsibility of the Polish state, which is directly due to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The primary task of all citizens of the Republic of Poland, and in particular representatives of the Polish people - regardless of political views - is to support the institutions of the state and its services. The Republic of Poland is a strong country of its institutions and its citizens. If we are united, together we will effectively face the attack on our country. This solidarity is sought by the Polish Sejm today by all Poles. As a representative of the group of Members who have tabled this draft resolution, and the rapporteur of the committee, I ask the High Sejm to support this draft resolution as widely as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u248	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jarosław Zieliński will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u249	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I would like, now speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, to say that in our opinion it is a great pity that in the Polish Sejm, even in a situation of such a serious threat to the security of our country, the attack on the Polish border, there is no solidarity or agreement, so much desirable to strengthen our strength and resilience to the Belarusian regime, supported by the reborn Russian imperialism, attempts to force the border of the Republic of Poland, in a situation of attempts to disintegrate the Polish border and the Polish territory. Mr Mateusz Morawiecki called for a reduction in the level of aggression and bad emotions during the last session of the Sejm convened in an extraordinary manner in this matter. We have seen this decline in opposition aggression, but the reduction of these bad developments during the last session of the Sejm has proved very short-lived. Aggression has already returned after a few days, both in media speeches and during the work of the committee yesterday, and not only in our committee, the Committee on Culture and Media, which dealt with the draft resolution, but also in the work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the revision of the Law on the Protection of the State Border. I'm a member. I also witnessed all these embarrassing, very harmful speeches for Poland. [[You're...]] They are noted with joy in Minsk and in the Kremlin, but they certainly do not serve Poland well. Ladies and gentlemen! The calls made by the Members of the Law and Justice for the opposition to start thinking in Polish at last did not produce any results during these meetings. Instead of working... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr, don't embarrass yourself with such statements.]] [[Talk about a resolution...]] Ladies and gentlemen... I'm acting on behalf of the club right now. Those are gentle words. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[We're paying attention to you not saying things like that.]] The border of the state of shouting has also been exceeded. Ladies and gentlemen! Compared to your stunts yesterday, those are very gentle words. I'm trying to keep my emotions trapped. Those are very gentle words. You can and probably need to speak a lot more harshly, but I'll spare you that. Instead of working on a common, consistent and full concern for Polish security position, which would be an important signal for Polish opponents, that in internal affairs we can fight even very fierce disputes, but in the face of external threats we will face solidarity, side by side in defence of Poland, Members of the opposition have just left the room and given expression to what they really stand for. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: For two hours you have shown how you want to work with us.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is much to be said about this, but Poles observed these speeches yesterday and, I think, they will make an opinion on it and evaluate it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To conclude this speech, I would like to submit a proposal for the third reading of the draft resolution on solidarity on the protection of Polish borders, seym prints No. 1758, 1759 and 1774... Thank you, sir. ...without referring him to the committee to consider the amendments and proposals tabled to this draft resolution... Thank you very much, sir. ...and after serving them to the Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Grupiński will speak on behalf of the Civic Coalition. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, that the expression: you yourself are harmful, shouted out by you in the course of Mr Zieliński's speech is really unworthy of a parliamentarian. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Zieliński shed tears here for the crocodiles about the lack of cooperation by the opposition Members, but it seems that it seems that the rulers did not want to hear our arguments or our proposals at all. Therefore, I will present our summary somewhat due to the timing of the proposal for a resolution on the political and humanitarian crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border. The European Union, in response to the fraud of elections, the brutal suppression of peaceful demonstrations, the imprisonment and persecution of thousands of Belarusians, imposed sanctions on the regime of Aleksandra Lukashenka. In the revenge of Lukashenka, he decided to create a crisis at the border with the European Union, including its Polish section, while trying to violate our sovereignty. In a particularly cynical and calculating way, he used people of many nationalities, fleeing persecution or lack of life prospects. Thousands of people who are deceived by the Lukashenka regime roam on the Belarusian side in conditions threatening their lives and health. By blocking migrants and refugees from returning to the country from which they came, Alexander Lukashenka led to a humanitarian crisis for which he is fully responsible. The Sejm expresses solidarity with Border Guard officers, police officers and soldiers of the Polish Army protecting the borders of Poland and the Union, who, while serving in a responsible service, should at the same time respect human rights and be guided by humanitarianism and the principles of the Convention on the Status of Refugees. The Sejm also expresses solidarity with grassroots initiatives to provide humanitarian aid to the victims of the Lukashenka regime by local residents and social organisations. At the same time, the Sejm calls on the government to: allow independent media to report on events at the border in a direct and unhindered way, to provide humanitarian aid, including medical aid, to all these migrants, and especially to women and children who have been detained in Poland who need such assistance, to present an urgent package of concrete proposals to strengthen sanctions against the Lukashenka regime to the European Commission. In addition, the Polish Parliament considers it advisable for the government and the President of the Republic of Poland to cooperate permanently and effectively with the relevant bodies of the European Union responsible for border protection and migration. The Sejm of the Republic is convinced that acting jointly and jointly with the members of the European Union and NATO, the crisis caused by Lukashenka will be overcome and resolved. The only thing you've taken over for your resolution is a piece on humanitarian aid, and it's full of loud words to make you feel like you're the only patriots. You think that if you use the words a thousand times: nation, Poland, patriotism, you will become patriots from the vending machine. No, it's not. Because not words, but deeds testify to patriotism. [[Applause]] And your actions bear witness to you as bad as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u252	Mr Maciej Necessary on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's committee meeting, two proposals for resolutions on the border, about the crisis, were discussed. One by Law and Justice, the other by Civic Platform. Unfortunately, among them was not the proposal made by the Left, but it was a pity. The proposal of the PiS, in practice with unconditional support for the government, was chosen to proceed with the process - all the more so. So I will take this opportunity to recall what was most important in our proposal. This may make it easier to understand why we cannot support what the government is proposing. First of all, the resolution of the Sejm should make it clear who is the aggressor in this situation and who is the victim. It must be clear that the humanitarian crisis and the attempt to destabilise our part of Europe are the responsibility of Belarusian dictator Alexander Lukashenka. It must be clear that refugees, immigrants cynically deceived and brutally exploited by Belarus are here a victim. It cannot be our agreement to mark equality between the Belarusian dictatorship and the democratic Poland and Europe, exactly as our agreement cannot be to scare Poles with refugees and create an artificial threat on their part. On this second point, the resolution proposed by the Law and Justice unfortunately fails. Similarly to the entire policy of the governing camp, aimed at fueling the fear of Poles and threatening refugees. That's why we're going to vote against. You cannot talk about the crisis on the Polish-Belarusian border, not to mention the dramatic humanitarian situation of people. The merits of the inhabitants of Podlasie, medical personnel, activists and activists who provide assistance to those in need cannot be ignored. They just need to be thanked. Respect and appreciation for military police officers, Border Guards serving Poland in this difficult situation are important. It is important that this respect is not idle talk, but real support and the provision of decent working conditions. Respect is a good equipment that comes from the state, not from public collections. It is really embarrassing that after a few weeks of crisis, the Polish state is unable to equip its people with basic equipment and organise public collections. Respect is psychological support for officers dealing with extremely difficult situations. Respect is finally not forcing people to follow inhuman and illegal orders. The applause can't replace real support. The use of uniforms for party games is even more incriminating. The point of the ruling is to be able to say either you declare unconditional support for the government or do not respect the uniforms. This really isn't a nice play in this situation. It's not okay to go after these little blackmails and manipulations in the light of a serious threat, really. The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland should first of all clearly show that the border between Poland and Belarus is the border between democracy and concern for the other person and brutal dictatorship and contempt for his neighbor. I'm just afraid the resolution itself might not be enough here. In order to resolve any doubts about this issue, the government must finally allow the media, doctors (the bell) and humanitarian aid organisations to reach the border, take care of all persons who are in our country, stop celebrating the constitution and restrict the rights of Poles and Poles by means of statutory prostheses of the state of emergency. It would really help, much more than any resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u254	Thank you, sir. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. Please present your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u255	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Solidarity and responsibility. These words should guide us today regardless of political colors, because it is the most important thing. It is about the security of our country and our citizens. The border doesn't have political colors. The border is white and red, as the president of the Polish People's Party Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz said from this speaker. The coalition of Poland and Polish People's Party since the beginning of this conflict, which takes place on the Polish border, call for cooperation and cooperation. We were not opposed to the solutions proposed by the ruling party. We did not interfere with the introduction of the state of emergency, but we called for our journalists to be admitted to the border, because the media at the border are so that we are not deprived of information so that we can win the war against the disinformation of Belarus. In this war, we have a chance to win if we have reliable information from our journalists. We voted in favour of the law in defence of the Polish border, offering of course new telemetry solutions and installation of modern devices. Because the right state and the good of the state are the most important to us, because where it comes to the interests of Poland, there ends politics and it is necessary to cooperate. But this cooperation and willingness to cooperate cannot be seen from the government, can not be seen from the ruling party. Why hasn't the National Security Council been convened? Why don't you want to share your knowledge, sit at the table and look for solutions together? For our part, we offer excellent experts: experienced Minister Marek Biernacki, experienced diplomat Władysław Theofil Bartoszewski. Why don't you take advantage of their knowledge and experience? As far as possible, this problem must be internationalised, as we have been calling for from the beginning. Yesterday, as Members responsible for the security of our country and open to cooperation, we also bowed to the content of this resolution. Unfortunately, on your part, the compromise is still very difficult. Let us remember that this crisis is an international crisis and let us take advantage of the European Union's assistance in order to eliminate it as soon as possible. We expect more government activity on the diplomatic and political stage, because this is the task and responsibility of the Polish government. On the Polish border with Belarus, which, I stress, is also the border of the European Union, has been working tirelessly for several months and has been guarded by our soldiers, WOT soldiers, firefighters from the State Fire Department and as usual... Marshal, one more minute, please, okay? I'm almost done. Not a minute. Don't be silly. ...ready to help your fellow volunteer firefighters, for which we thank them wholeheartedly. They've been working at the border for months. Thank you, Member. ...police officers and foresters. On this border there are also residents of border towns every day... Last sentence, Member. ...our citizens, whose fate of another man is not indifferent, who personally every day, bring help to these people. As a coalition... Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. Mr... I just wanted to file a motion. As Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party we will vote in favour of this resolution. However, I am proposing an amendment that I am handing over to your marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u256	Okay, thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation. Member, this is not the way to do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Very far away is the Confederation to PiS in many cases. Let's take a look at how we deal with the issue of fighting COVID-19. The PiS are totalists, and the Left and the Civic Coalition refer to them. It is important to remember that all activities that undermine freedom of speech This is your joint coalition. But there are situations in which we should all stand and support, above all, the institutions of the Polish state, regardless of what government we have. This is precisely the situation of external aggression at our borders. What an anti-state patricophob it is necessary to be in such a crisis inspired from the outside, where the Polish state is the victim of aggression, and the institutions of the Polish state are being destabilized, boycotting the work of Polish institutions, officers or even the Polish parliament. We are not anarchists or mental subjects of leftist activists who do their theaters at the border today. We're not gonna scream or empathize with pictures. We're not gonna agree to anarchy right now. This is why we worked together on this particular issue, because the most important thing for us is the interest of the Polish state. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, it is there in the East that they are very happy when we in the Polish Seym, here, in this building, are divided when we are demagogued and when we are subjected to emotional blackmail. There can't be room for that. We must remember about the Polish state and the safety of Poles. I feel like part of the room just forgets about it. And that's a great shame. The Confederation also took part in yesterday's committee work and developed a model, some proposal that was announced today, because for us there are more important things than party interests, and this is the national interest and security of Poles. On this one issue we can speak with one voice, we can jointly support the Polish state, not only the officers, but all the institutions of the Polish state, because the Border Guard, the army, police or firefighters are operating at the border today, acting there in the name of our security and the Polish Sejm must solidarity with them. The Polish Sejm must also make it clear who is responsible for the humanitarian crisis, which is there at the border, and it is a Belarusian country. This resolution we're talking about today is just a gesture. Naturally, concrete actions must follow the gesture, i.e. a wall that we do not have anymore, as well as sanctions imposed on Belarus in terms of transit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us remember that every such gesture is also concrete information for the world, that the Polish state is determined to protect its citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u258	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u259	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The previous session of the Sejm was devoted to a balanced discussion about the situation at the border, exceptionally. We wanted to conclude this discussion by a joint resolution of the Sejm expressing solidarity with the uniformed people guarding the integrity of the Republic of Poland today, without forgetting thanks to those who are helping those in the humanitarian crisis today. An amendment in this spirit was made yesterday to the Committee on Culture, looking for the smallest common denominator under which we would be able to sign today regardless of political divisions, because we believe that today, in the hour of trial, such a common voice is very necessary to show support for guards, soldiers, policemen, residents, volunteers, doctors, all who today are directly involved in defending Polish borders and helping their neighbor. Although we welcome the addition to the resolution of the paragraph appreciating humanitarian aid, unfortunately we cannot agree with the provision which puts the Polish government among the heroes of the Polish border in one row. The government already has its media and enough glory at conferences and could tactfully withdraw its presence from the content of this resolution so that we can take a common position as the Sejm. The Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 with real regret will not support the resolution in this shape, but we hope that in the future we will not waste a similar chance, and as for the actions we are doing at the border, I thank all volunteers and activists of the Movement Poland 2050, who are currently conducting collections, buying rescue packages. We've delivered 300 of these packages to the border. Each of them contains necessary to save life and health accessories. I would also like to thank all the organizations, all the volunteers and all the uniforms who are now guarding our borders and who are showing human reflexes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u260	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] As always, sir. And the traffic on the way.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u261	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a question, which is a representative of the high committee. However, it is surprising that you want to solidarity with a government that cannot provide soldiers, officers, with adequate equipment at the border. We find out that there are gatherings of various kinds of equipment, food collections among the inhabitants. Of course, it's a good thing that residents support officers and soldiers, but these things should be provided by the government. Meanwhile, you want to solidarity, state, committee wants to solidarity with the government that sent soldiers to the border and just left them there. Similarly, when it comes to food matters. So that the government wants to destroy de facto those people who bring selfless help to those... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. ...who are in such a difficult, life-threatening situation. I ask you to answer why you want to be sympathetic with the government that does this... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u262	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a long delay and 20 people to ask questions, and I ask you to stick to your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the border with Belarus we have a conflict of a European character, not only but also a global one. Therefore, the question is: Why has the government not managed to get any real support from the countries of the European Union by now? Why is the government afraid of letting journalists into the border area? Why does the government hide its head from public opinion by not letting journalists in? Did Prime Minister Morawiecki surrender to President Lukashenka in the propaganda war, who was not afraid of letting CNN and other foreign journalists in? Why wouldn't you finally want to talk to everyone on the National Security Council? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u264	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u265	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! If this is such a serious crisis, why didn't we call the National Security Council? Why wasn't President Andrzej Duda in this room in each of the debates on this subject, about the state of emergency, about the wall, etc.? Why can you go to the Polish-Hungary game at the same time? Does that mean you care about ending this crisis? I don't think so. It is in the interests of this country to defend both borders and humanity, and therefore these things are not completely excluded. We should all do everything from right to left to end this humanitarian crisis. As soon as possible. The measure of patriotism is not the vain words that we hear in the text of this resolution, but actions. If you are patriots, then you should call on Frontex to help, help organizations, allow journalists to reach the border. This is the only way we can deal with this situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u266	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In your governments, we have long lost our subjectivity in international politics, and the crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border, which is a diplomatic and image disaster of our country, only confirms that. You have led to the fact that Poland is being discussed without the participation of Poland. Only through the Union will Turkish airlines no longer board aircraft to Minsk citizens of Iraq, Syria and Yemen. It was necessary to talk to the head of the European Commission and the President of the United States to make a decision on sanctions against Belarus because you could not even start a debate on this subject. And for not allowing the media to enter the border, you pay for the fact that the world's television stations represent relations not from a Polish perspective, but from a Belarusian perspective. Why didn't you call for the help of Frontex (the bell), Interpol or NATO observers to internationalize this conflict? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u268	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u269	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The push-back method, the method of pushing refugees back from Polish territory abroad, is an ineffective, inhumane and incompatible method. It's consent to human abuse and consent to systemic death. Unfortunately, these people after several times, after several times, have less and less chance of surviving. I blame the government for this, and I also blame the parliamentarians who voted in favour of this law. I don't blame the border guards. My question is, when will you withdraw from this disgraceful bill? We have to stop this madness. The question is also: How many of these Push-backs was there? How many actually were there and also how many repeat push-backs were there? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Kaminski, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that some people in this room who believe that a safe border is safe Poland will support this draft resolution today is a good sign. But in fact, the people who are on the border, the military, the Border Guard, the police need a visible sign, a wall, a fence, a barrier, or whatever we call it. The Prime Minister said it wouldn't be until next summer. It's definitely too late. We need it faster because these people need to feel safe. They need our good word, but first of all they need to feel safe. Without building this fence faster, this dam, it's not gonna happen. I therefore call for this to be speeded up and for us to ensure the security of our border services as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u272	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u273	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! From this place, I would like to once again, even though in the resolution we thank the people, the inhabitants of those areas, for what they do every day, as they support all those who nevertheless cross the border. This is their great work, also for the service, support for the service. At the same time, I have two specific appeals to the rulers. Unfortunately, the entrepreneurs there are still talking about the support, the compensation that was promised... Somehow these compensations are difficult, so I ask you to speed up this topic, because they really lose and lose each day. Second thing. Let us finally let journalists in there so that we can all work together in the future on such a resolution that we are discussing today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u274	Thank you. Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At a time when national security is at stake, it is the duty of the rulers to seek and build national unity. This also means seeking support from the opposition and its voters. Such actions require at least symbolic gestures, and you have not done such gestures. You decided to use a well-known sejm roller to force your project and reject our draft resolution. What's wrong with our draft resolution? Don't you like condemning Alexander Lukashenka for causing a political and humanitarian crisis and exploiting desperate people? Do you not like the statement that the Polish and global public deserve a media coverage not only from the Belarusian side? Do you not like emphasising the role of support and solidarity between the European Union and NATO in resolving this crisis? Stop being a petty bell, and for once in such an important matter, show that you want to cooperate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u276	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address only one point in my speech, namely the debate that took place yesterday at the committee meeting. In fact, it was long because it lasted an hour and a half. In this discussion there were many words, words of agreement, agreement, support for this resolution. And then when it came to what, and it was necessary to vote on the motion for a subcommittee to draw up a common text of the resolution, it turned out that the Members of the Law and Justice were against it. Ladies and gentlemen, actions, not words. If you come and say that this resolution should be supported by everyone, that we should all agree to it, it also means that it should be worked out jointly by representatives of all clubs. These words, sir, about national unity (the bell) are hypocrisy that falls out of your mouth, and it really hurts Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u278	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! There is a great deal to be achieved by diplomacy. Unfortunately, the PiS government couldn't do that. I wanted to bring up a historical example. Namely, in the work of Poliajnosa the war raids are described a hundred battles of ancient and various war raids, but there is one characteristic passage about the Macedonian Phillip. Philip achieved no less by talking than by using a weapon, and by Zeus, he was more proud of what he gained by pronunciation than by his armed gain. It was the basis of the power on which Alexander Macedonian built his empire. But with you, there are many delicious Alexanders, and this one Philip for a good diplomatic work has unfortunately run out. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u280	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Because everyone here says this is the limit. not only Poland, but also the European Union, and because 95% refugees say they want to get to Germany, and I ask why not only this wall costs, but everything is not covered by the European Union, in particular Germany. Why should Poland bear the cost of something that we do not need to care about if these people went to Germany? Secondly, I wanted to ask because the Confederation has loyally voted in favour of one state of emergency and another state of emergency, whether the government realises that our patience will end. You've been given enormous tools to fight the threat that you've caused by fighting Mr. Lukashenka. We will have no more patience - if you do not use these tools, then (the bell) you will see that you may not have a majority in the Seym. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u282	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Why are the representatives of the ruling formation in the Sejm talking about the need for cooperation in the face of the crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border, rather than cooperating with the opposition? Why, given that the Polish border is the border between the European Union and NATO, the government does not, de facto, co-operate with international organisations such as: Frontex does not initiate the Article. 4 North Atlantic Treaty? And what are the results of the lack of effective Polish diplomacy? It is such that the situation on the Polish border is discussed by Mr Putin, Mr Lukashenko, Mrs Merkel, President Biden, and the Polish side is not treated as a reliable partner. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u284	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u285	Mrs. Marshalkini... [[Voice from the room: Who?]] High Izbo! At the Polish-Belarusian border there are about 5 thousand. refugees. I have to ask you: Are refugees at the border a threat to Polish society? Do we lack potatoes, bread, butter, tomatoes, sugar, salt, vegetables? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u286	Maybe: Do we value our safety? Mr Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u287	Dear Marshal! Mr Rafał Grupiński said that actions, not words, decide who wishes Poland well. That's the way it is. So what are the opposition's actions today? You were, ladies and gentlemen, against the construction of the barrier, against the construction of the wall, against the border law. Previously you were against the Territorial Defence Forces and thus against the strengthening of the Polish Army. If we did what the opposition really wanted us to do, today the border would be defenseless. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: Not really.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, who wants Poland better today?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u288	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u289	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing a draft resolution on solidarity on what is happening at the Polish-Belarusian border. Indeed, this solidarity is extremely important, important. We have the right to differ in the assessment and prescription of this crisis, but we should also respect each other and seek a common language on such important issues. In this context, I must sadly conclude that, while we are still hearing declarations of willingness to cooperate from the opposition - I am very pleased that the Minister has appreciated these actions of the opposition recently - unfortunately, I do not see such a will from the government. Polish-Belarusian relations are extremely important. If it weren't for the fact that the elections in Belarus were falsified, we would probably have a completely different situation today, but it is all the more forcing us to work together to solve these problems. I would like to ask for some reflection from you as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u290	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, club Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just as with applause it is impossible to heal health care, such a hashtag: the wall behind the uniform will not strengthen Polish officers serving on the Polish border. [[A wall behind a Polish uniform.]] PR plays will not replace decent treatment, equipment, psychological care and, above all, freedom from coercing inhuman orders, such as the order of illegal child export to the forest. Today, the Polish uniform needs a defense, but the defense against tainting the orders of power, after which the uniform will be difficult to look in the mirror. When will you finally provide them with this defence instead of empty and false words about solidarity? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u292	Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking a lot about symbolism and we are quoting many symbolic words. I would like to quote a few sentences written by the people of Białowieża, who founded the Białowieża Humanitarian Action: We are people of different views, but we have a deep conviction that providing humanitarian aid to people in an extremely difficult situation of life is our right and our civic duty. Living in an emergency zone, we can't count on outside help. We don't have medical or media support. We were left alone with a situation beyond our imaginations. Still, we want to bring help to those in need. We are open to cooperation with local authorities, uniformed services, workplaces, organisations and private individuals. The granting of humanitarian aid, understood as safeguarding basic life needs, is in no way in breach of the rules in force in the emergency zone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have to work together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u294	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the left-wing club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u295	Ladies and gentlemen, it is no secret that many and many of us are assessing the government's policy against the crisis at the border. To touch us with the resolution of the Sejm, which expresses unconditional solidarity with this policy, forcefully imposing it and pushing it in committee and calling it cooperation, I find it a unique hypocrisy. The National Security Council was not convened, there was no other body, no meeting with the Prime Minister, there was no room for discussion that would actually allow this common position to be reached. I will not mention the vote against the formation of a subcommittee for this purpose, so that, in the case of this resolution, at least try to come up with a common version. Instead, on the same breath on which you call us to this cooperation, you insult not only us, but above all those who are helping at the border. You're not only avoiding them in this draft resolution, you're not only avoiding them in your communication, you're insulting them directly by replicating lies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is outrageous. Thank you very much. This is not the way to conduct politics. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u296	Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u297	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It's really amazing that some of the opposition works so hard against the interests of Poland. I would like to ask why you voted against the introduction of a state of emergency in Poland, why you voted against the extension of this state. [[Because he didn't give anything, it's worse than it was.]] Why did you vote against the Wall Construction Act at the border? Why did you file a motion yesterday to reject the State Border Defense Act? Why - once again - do you act against the interests of Poland? Today, respect for the Polish uniform is so important. Yesterday 12 police officers and Border Guards were injured, and one soldier of the Polish Army. You guys really need to come to your senses. [[Applause]] [[Nearly half a thousand died of COVID.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u298	Thank you. Mr President, you had your time on the floor. Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska. You're welcome. [[Losers.]] Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of this resolution was to support all of us, parliamentarians, for defending Polish borders, for people who defend these borders. And you wanted to make this a government card. A government that must take such action, a government that accuses the opposition for all its failures, is a weak government. Because you have the responsibility and you have the tools to defend the Polish borders. And you're making it look like you're not telling the truth that lying is a public domain. Yesterday at the committee meeting we heard lies, disrespect for us, the greatest insults that Members could have heard. You took away our right to patriotism, dignity and decision-making. If that's the way it's supposed to be, if that's how we're gonna work together, you're gonna be very lonely. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland needs cooperation, but it requires respect, truth and cannot be lied to. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u300	And one last question. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Our gratitude to Border Guard officers, soldiers, police officers and other uniforms is obvious. But there is also a strong humanitarian crisis at the border. I think that we should be grateful and to medical services, and especially to individual volunteers, organized, also aid organisations, including organized, individual, people of great heart, many border residents who spend their own money, time and try to help poor people at the border in this humanitarian sense. 'Cause one day we'll be accounted for, too, and we'll look each other in the eye. And in the world, we'll be accounted for with... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u302	Thank you very much, sir. The committee rapporteur, Mr Jarosław Zieliński, asked for the floor. I kindly ask the Member to answer his questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u303	Ladies and gentlemen! The draft resolution tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice concerned - I would like to remind you - expressions of solidarity on the protection of the Polish border. And the state and the committee, and here you bring up a whole series of cases, a whole spectrum of cases that unfortunately do not have much to do with this draft resolution. That's one thing. Secondly, you show your attitude to the point clearly. Indeed, we differ very much, in the assessment of the situation at the Polish-Belarusian border and its sources. You could do a lot. speak, recall many of you. Perhaps Mr Mieszkowski is not a representative of all of you, but since you consider him your colleague in these statements, perhaps he was the best person to say what should be done. The state in various statements, maybe in less expressive ways, is suggesting that too. He asked if we lacked potatoes, bread, salt, etc., to invite all these illegal immigrants to Poland. That's your point of view. Mr Mieszkowski has expressed this very well. If you think that it is necessary to let all those who brutally and illegally push through Alexander Lukashenka's regime, Polish borders, into Poland, lead to the wounded being Polish officers, police officers, soldiers, border guards, congratulations. If we're gonna see this case like this, let all those who carry aggression, illegal activities, violence, and pity them into the country... Because you wanted a resolution - even the title of your resolution was expressing it - concerning charity, you can even say: a charitable activity towards them, not concerning the protection of the Polish border. And it bothers you very much when in one of the phrases of this resolution there is also a wording concerning the Polish government. Yes, it is the Polish government, the Government of Law and Justice today - we have not even written that the Government of Law and Justice, but it is obvious - protects Polish borders. Thanks to the fact that the policy of the Polish government, of course implemented by state services, is very effective, we do not have destabilisation in Poland, we do not have the disintegration of the border and we do not have all the misfortunes that would have happened if you had ruled, if you had let those immigrants into Poland who paid salt money and are not persecuted or poor in their countries. We'd be delicious, really. Just as we would have been delicious if you had been in charge longer in 2015 and 2016, because then from the south of Europe you invited, like Angela Merkel, a mass of immigrants to Poland. You said then, including your Prime Minister, that Poland would accept all these amounts and should not defend itself against it. Today we read, we hear the same thing: there is no shortage of potatoes, bread and salt in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, how far is this misunderstanding going? Yesterday at the committee meeting, you talked about a compromise, about the need to look for it. I also referred to this, saying that yes, a compromise is a value, but it is not a value above all, it is not a value at all costs. Because if the compromise is to be based on the fact that we depart from solidarity in Poland with regard to the protection, defence of the Polish border, that we let immigrants in and expose ourselves to all the problems and processes that this entails, then there can simply be no compromise here. If on the one hand you say that you express your respect for Polish officers, and on the other hand you want to make it difficult for them to work... Because what else is it to demand that there be journalists everywhere? We would also like them to be, only you saw what was happening at the beginning of this crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border. Most journalists are responsible, most politicians are responsible too, but we have seen these behaviors, these performances at the borders. You're trying to make this dangerous place difficult. The operation of our officers? We see what is happening now under the pressure of these large groups, which are being pushed by the Lukashenka regime and its services to the Polish border and to Poland. Besides, journalists themselves need to be safe. That's what needs to be taken care of, remember that. In addition, you say that no words of the resolution will provide security. And it is certainly not safe for journalists running across the border in front of officers to question them every step of the way, what they do. Ladies and gentlemen, consider this. I don't know if it's like there's a lack of elementary knowledge and realism here, or if there's something much worse than what I don't want to guess in your attitude. But we're not gonna build a compromise on something like this, we're not gonna build one. You say that it is the government's responsibility to ensure security. Yes, and that is what the government is doing with the services of the Polish state. But when it comes to saying that the Polish government has this role as part of this solidarity, you say: no, list the institutions, but without the government. Just listen to yourself, because this is something dramaticly false that you're doing in this discussion. And today you're recalling everything again: and the National Security Council that it wasn't called... [[Because she didn't.]] ...and the Frontex case, which has been explained many times, and all other issues related to the European Union, with assistance. We are talking about a resolution on solidarity, and you are looking for all possible and impossible arguments so that this solidarity does not exist. That's your attitude. This attitude, ladies and gentlemen, has historical references. She's got references... I'm not gonna talk about it because you're gonna be making a big noise here right now, but you know what the reference is, you don't even have to bring it up. It is a pity that you fit into this very bad tradition, a very harmful tradition for Poland, but also - don't be offended - disgraceful and disgraceful. Ladies and gentlemen! I do now. If anyone has doubts as to whether the Polish government and institutions of the Polish state are doing the right thing, uniformed services, Border Guard, Police, State Fire Department, because they are also involved, voluntary firefighters, Polish Army, including the Army of Oborna Territorial, other services and institutions, if you have doubts, please go to the border, not even on this 3-km border strip, but a little further to... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, where you can go, 4 km, 5 km, even 10 km away. I'm gonna point out places, I know this area, because this is my voivodeship, from which I've been holding a parliamentary mandate for over 18 years. I know how to pocket this whole area and I can tell you where you're going to hear... But you go so there's no such feeling of control. Ask the residents, they'll tell you. They'll tell you you're wrong. Yesterday, I was probably getting, like many of us, a lot of text messages, different phones, e-mails, just with the words of outrage at all that you said yesterday at the committee meeting. Is this how you're looking for your support in the election? You don't get it that way, that's the wrong way. You could say that politically it's your business, that's your problem, right? But that's a Polish problem. We're looking for consent, we're looking for a common position as far as possible... [[You're not looking at all.]] ...to defend ourselves against an external security threat. This is not a threat from the inside, it is an external threat, Belarusian, Russian, and migrants are involved. Do not make them, ladies and gentlemen, such people who need to be leaned over with great care, over each of them, because they forcefully and illegally push Polish borders. And how do you want to help these people? It's impossible in Belarus. We wanted to send humanitarian aid, but it wasn't accepted, Belarus didn't accept it. To help in Poland, you have to let them in, which means you have to accept illegal mass migration. That's your philosophy, that's what you're trying to get us to do. No, we're not going this way. [[The provisions of the international convention must be respected.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is good that we do not listen to your advice in everything, it is good that the Poles did not listen to your advice and judged you, your actions a few years ago. I'll remind you of a symbolic matter. Today, all Border Guard facilities are very much needed and perform extremely important functions at the Polish-Belarusian border. You guys wanted to liquidate the facility. The Border Guard facility in Krynki, one of the facilities on the Polish-Belarusian border, was to be liquidated by you. We defended, I defended, then as a member of the opposition, the self-governments defended this facility. We, as part of the modernisation program, as the government of Law and Justice, built new facilities there, built observation towers. How it is needed today! And if you had eliminated it, it wouldn't have been. And you also wanted to eliminate... [[Mr Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska: But we did not eliminate it, Mr Kidawa-Błońska.]] Because we stopped you from doing this. That's when you got scared of the media. There were announcements of the liquidation of fingertips in the Sejny, in Rutka-Tartak or in the Krynki. You've wiped out the entire Carpathian Border Guard unit. We've recreated this unit. He's functioning. Elimination of everything, e.g. Police stations, those were your actions. They also play a very important role both on the Polish-Belarusian border and throughout the country. Ladies and gentlemen! It would be difficult to answer all the questions. In fact, they weren't questions. Those were charges. They were some kind of invectives. One would think that you think that Poland, not Belarus, is responsible for what is happening, even though in formal declarations you say of course that it is the Lukashenka regime. For what is happening at the border with Belarus, you are actually blaming the Polish government, not the Lukashenka regime and illegal migrants, who are increasingly, increasingly violently attacking with various tools of Polish officers and Polish troops. [[So there are no refugees in Poland?]] I would like to address Mr Mirosław Suchon. You accused that Polish soldiers, officers, did not have the right conditions at the border to perform their duty, to carry out their mission. They do. They've got everything they need. This is ensured. On the other hand, I know cases - I do not think that this is a bad thing, on the contrary - to organize various forms of assistance for soldiers and officers. I think it's an expression. the gratitude of the inhabitants of this area. If a village hostess brings them candy bars, is that a bad thing? Does that mean they're hungry? [[So they're in Poland?]] Is that why the wheel does it? No. It's an expression of gratitude. All these gatherings are the result of the noble attitude of the inhabitants of this land and their gratitude. This is an expression of gratitude and patriotism. All these people want to be involved in making it safe, which is why I really want to thank them very sincerely right now. I would like to thank the local government, the firefighters from the State Fire and the voluntary firefighters, the village hostels, the foresters, the hunters, all of them. There really is a wall behind the Polish uniform. I'm sure it's nothing false. Therefore, please do not accuse us that something is unprepared because such actions take place. These are very noble shares, very valuable, very necessary. The fact that the officers, the soldiers, feel the support of society, that's a huge value. They know they serve everyone. They serve us all, all Poles. First of all, they serve Poles who live near the border because their safety is the most at risk. Ladies and gentlemen, if we listened to you, there would be no state of emergency, there would be no Border Guard facilities, there would be no programme to modernise uniformed services. There'd be less officers. The Border Guard wouldn't have long weapons. You took the gun away from the long officers of the Border Guard. We brought it back to them. You can go on. Ladies and gentlemen! Your policy was misfortune, and today you have the courage to attack the government for what is being done. Thanks to the actions of the Polish government, the Government of Law and Justice, thanks to state institutions, thanks to uniformed services, thanks to the army Poland is effectively protected from this threat. We protect the Polish borders. We did not allow the stability of the eastern part of the territory of the Republic of Poland to be destabilized. [[So there are no refugees in Poland? Yes or no?]] Ladies and gentlemen, all these fairy tales, what you're telling, it doesn't matter anymore. It's the facts that matter. We were hoping you'd reflect a little. We wanted to give you a chance. Let's go out together. I'm sure it would be historically well rated. It would be good for you to vote, too. You didn't take advantage of it. It's a shame, but I repeat, politically speaking, I'm not worried because that's your problem. I worry as a Pole, as a citizen of Poland. This is the kind of thing we should be together on. This tone, which we all saw here a week ago, should have been maintained and strengthened. I had the impression that on the one hand you listened to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, which would be good, and on the other hand that you realized the seriousness of the situation when it comes to the threat to the Polish-Belarusian border. Turns out neither. That's too bad. The Poles will judge you, history will judge you. I'll go back to the source of our conversation... [[Game in the O.R.]] Don't shout stupidity because you're just giving a witness about yourself. I would like to appeal to you again because there is still a chance that, in the vote that will be held today, we will support this resolution. She will probably be voted out because the majority of Members are responsible and will vote for her, but the wider the support for her, the better. I hope that today we will also vote on the law amending the Law on Border Protection. You're demanding the presence of journalists. Thank you very much, sir. There is a formula for journalists to be able to be present in places where there are threats. Therefore, your attack, your statement that we do not allow journalists, is missed. We want to regulate, organize and allow journalists according to the rules that are written in the bill, invite them to these places, so that, we hope, objectively report events. Finally, if you are so concerned about the Belarusian message, if the Belarusian message is credible to you, congratulations. For this reason, you can only feel sorry for yourselves. We see what the truth is. If you can't see, go to the Podlaskie Voivodeship and ask the locals who I thank once again for their attitude. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u304	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. An amendment and a request not to send the draft law to the committee was tabled in the discussion in order to submit a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Treaty on Eurocorpus and the status of its Command concluded between the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, published in Brussels on 22 November 2004 (prints Nos 1706 and 1755). I kindly ask Mr Michał Jacha to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Joint Commission: National Defence and Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Treaty on Eurocorpus and the status of its Command concluded between the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, published in Brussels on 22 November 2004, print No 1706. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 28 October 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading. High Izbo! The interest of Poland in increasing safety is active participation with an important voice in the most important structures that determine safety - not only our regional, but much wider. One such element was Eurocorpus, which was set up by the French-German Council. Defence and Security on 22 May 1992 In the following years, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg joined and the corps reached full operational readiness in 1995. Poland, as an aspiring country to have an important voice in any security initiatives, joined Eurocorp in 2003 and has since had the status of an associated country. At the 2006 meeting of national defence ministers of the Weimar Triangle, Poland presented an initiative to obtain the status of a framework state, i.e. full membership of Eurocorp. This initiative was endorsed by German and French national defence ministers and negotiations were launched with all the countries of the framework in 2008. In 2016, these actions were halted against the vague tasks of Eurocorp in NATO structures and the Minister of National Defence decided to withdraw gradually from Eurocorpus. At present, in a situation where the role and objectives of Eurocorp in NATO structures are growing, its importance is very important as a rapid response corps, the Polish side has returned to the plans to become a framework state. It is very important that we will be a member not only in NATO structures, of a decisive element for stability and security, but not just in our region. Poland effectively aspires to play an important role in all Euro-Atlantic security structures. The Joint Committees: National Defence and Foreign Affairs, following their first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 16 November 2021, ask the High Sejm to approve the draft law from print no. 1706 without amendments. And this reflection, ladies and gentlemen. The Commission adopted this opinion unanimously. For this I thanked all the members of the Joint Committee and thank you also now. Ladies and gentlemen, in a situation where so much is going on in terms of security, we are making a lot of decisions, this agreement has been very important to me, because, ladies and gentlemen, I am counting on it and appealing to the whole of this House for further security measures, including, of course, the elimination of the biggest problem, the biggest threat that the situation at the eastern border will finally have a common voice. Because I would like to present to the High House that an hour ago, one of the border commanders called me, asking me to say that the activities of some media providing some unverified information on the arming of migrants by the Belarusians, as well as the public statements of some Members have a very negative impact on soldiers. Ladies and gentlemen, these people who perform the extremely hard service mentioned in the previous speech call for us not to warm up the atmosphere in this regard so that we can support our bordermen, police officers, firemen and soldiers. That is what they and I are asking of the High House in a similar way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u306	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. At the same time, I warn you that I will stick very closely to the time set for speaking, because we have an hour delay already at this moment. Mr Paweł Hreniak will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u307	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Law and Justice Club regarding the draft law on ratification of the Treaty on Eurocorp and the status of its command. The purpose of Eurocorpus is to strengthen the capacity of the North Atlantic Treaty and the European Union to conduct military operations, including humanitarian and rescue missions, peace restoration and maintenance missions and possible tasks in NATO's collective defence. Negotiations with the framework countries of Eurocorp have been conducted for a long time and have been halted by the Polish party in 2016. This decision was the result of the announced changes in the nature of Eurocorp's activities, focusing on participating in the European Union's training and advisory crisis response missions at the expense of NATO defence, which is the part that is the most important and most desirable part for us. Today, the corps has shifted much more towards the North Atlantic Alliance. Changes in its functioning have been made and its role in NATO's structure has been increased, hence Poland's decision to return to activities aimed at full participation in Eurocorp. The status of a full member of Poland in Eurocorp will give us an impact on determining the tasks, structure and development of this unit. After becoming a member of the framework in 2023, the Pole will be the leader of Eurocorpus, and in 2024 we will have a chief of staff. This will allow us to directly influence the directions in which Eurocorp will develop. In the current situation, after the changes in Eurocorp, Poland will be able to effectively influence direction and commitment, hoping that its role in the policy of scaring and defending the eastern flank of NATO and the European Union will increase. In view of the benefits resulting from the ratification of the Treaty, the Club of Law and Justice supports the adoption of a draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u308	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Szewiński will speak on behalf of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law in print No 1706 and in print No 1755 concerning the ratification of the Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Poland to Eurocorpus. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As early as February 2008, Prime Minister Donald Tusk accepted Poland's proposal to achieve the status of the framework state of Eurocorpus and consequently the government took action regarding Poland's accession to the treaty. Unfortunately, in 2016 the then Minister of Defence of the National Government of Law and Justice decided not to join Eurocorpus. Looking at it in retrospect, it was a bad decision. After 2008, the Russian Federation was indirectly involved in the conflict in Georgia, South Ossetia, the conflict in Mountain Karabab, the escalation of the crisis situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Transnistria or Ukraine. Given the radical change in the security environment in Poland, in the Baltic countries, in the eastern NATO flank, it is good that the current government has returned to the 2008 concept. Here I look at Deputy Minister Skurkiewicz. The ratification of this treaty will result in Poland joining the Eurocorpus under the laws of the Framework State. The status of the Framework State will enable co-decision on the direction of Eurocorp's involvement, including in NATO's collective defence. This ratification is part of an increase in the level of defence of the European Union, including an increase in the level of security of the Republic of Poland and a strengthening of the European contribution to the North Atlantic Alliance. Enhancing the European Union's commitment and responsibility in the field of defence contributes to strengthening the capacity of Eurocorpus, which is a strong component of the common defence policy not only of the European countries but also of the Alliance States, NATO. It is one of the responses to challenges and crises, such as proxy actions, hybrid actions such as: The Russian Federation can implement (The Bell) by acting as a substitute actor of Belarus, testing the solidarity of Western countries. Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Szejna, Club Left. Last sentence... No, I told you I'd stick with it. Please, Mr Andrzej Shejna, please. I'll say one thing...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u310	Sorry, we're an hour late. Mr President, you are preventing further proceedings from taking place at the moment. [[Applause]] Excuse me. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The ratification of the Treaty on Eurocorp and the status of its command of 22 November 2004 is also important in launching a European debate on a further procedure to strengthen links between the Member States of the European Union and the parties to the North Atlantic Pact, in this case in the area of security and armed forces. Very well, Minister, you have corrected the mistake of Minister Macierewicz, who wanted to withdraw from this at all, and the concept of the framework state of Poland within the framework of Eurocorp has been abandoned. Eurocorp is part of a limited membership of Poland today as an associated country. On the other hand, the Framework State is releasing its staff of the Eurocorpus Command with military capabilities. Associated - no. It shall only release personnel to the Eurocorpus Command. The leading idea that accompanied the creation of Eurocorpus was to strengthen the capacity of the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty to carry out military operations, including humanitarian and rescue missions, peace restoration and maintenance missions and possible performance of tasks in NATO's collective defence. It is therefore the foundation on which the European Union's armed forces may form in the future. One of the consequences of accession to the Treaty, as I have already mentioned, is obtaining full membership of Eurocorp, which will ensure that the Republic of Poland is involved in the process of deciding on its tasks, structure, development and use in crisis management operations. As a result, the adoption of the status of the framework State will enable the Republic of Poland to have a more effective impact on the direction of Eurocorpus' involvement, including in NATO's collective defence, and to consolidate the involvement of its command in the NATO chain of command with the possibility to participate in the implementation of the policy of deterrent and defence on the eastern flank, which is very important for us today. It is also an opportunity to increase the intensity of the exchange of experience in the modernisation of the Armed Forces and its directions. Polish armed forces are virtually deprived of effective defence of cyberspace, which cannot be said of other European countries. Every time, the Left stresses that the chance for the proper development of the Republic of Poland is to further deepen European integration, which is the most appropriate response to the current economic and political conditions, and to internationalize such conflicts and crises as on the eastern border of Poland with Belarus. I would like to point out that the Left wishes Poland to take an active part in strengthening European integration. So far, the government has pursued a completely different policy. Accession to this treaty is undoubtedly a Polish state right, but it will not cover tense relations with the European Union. The Left Parliamentary Club takes the view that any sign of pro-Europeanity is worth appreciating, so it will support the ratification of the treaty. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u312	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krystian Kaminski, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are to proceed with the military cooperation formula limited to the European Union dominated by the states of the old Union, against which the Government of the PiS has so far distanced itself, justifying this by misunderstanding by France or Germany of our geopolitical conditions and their unwillingness to engage. However, in recent talks between France and Germany directly with Russia over our heads, but about us, I feel that this commitment is too much. At the level of defence cooperation, however, there have been a number of scraps with these countries. I would like to remind you, for example, that negotiations on the purchase of French helicopters have been broken. I don't judge the decision itself here, but the form of it, the execution of the announcement was however, let's call it, not the best. In this context, on the most important level of security, the government's behavior looks like the behavior of a man who bounces from the wall to the wall, who doesn't really know what he wants. The question arises: What has changed, then, that the government has made such a radical correction of its own policies? What concrete proposals for Eurocorp's involvement in our strategic theatre have been made that it is worthwhile to enter into this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u314	Thank you. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Continuing with the thought of the Kaminski colleague, I would like to point out that Eurocorp will not play any role in the war with the United States, Russia or China, but it can be very useful if the European Union wants to make order, for example. with Kaczyński's government, who is badly involved in justice in Poland. For this, Eurocorpus will be of the utmost use. It would be a giggle of history if the PiS voted in favour of this Eurocorp, and I remind you that his Excellency Jarosław Kaczyński He has already demanded three times the creation of a strong European army, which has not been done so far, which has aroused our hopes. Ladies and gentlemen, let us realise that there is a difference between the state of America and the country of the European Union. The United States is not independent, and neither are the countries of the European Union, because we have lost our independence by signing the Treaty of Lisbon. However, the U.S. states don't have their own army, and the federal government does. In Europe, it's the other way around. The Union does not have its own army, and individual countries have their own armies. And as long as we do, as long as we are armed and the Union is not armed, we can enjoy a large amount of autonomy. As soon as it is the other way around, and it is the Union that will have stronger troops, we will have nothing left to say. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u316	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Zalewski on behalf of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u317	Mrs. Marshal! Girls! Hey, guys! We started negotiations in 2008 and then the legislative procedure to include us in Eurocorp as a framework country. In 2016, just after PiS took power, colleagues, you gave it up. You're back to that today. It is as in the lens that shows your competence in the conduct of European policy. You don't understand her. You do not know what the European Union is, you do not know that the European Union offers opportunities and is on the side of solutions and does not create problems. Recently the Prime Minister of the Republic said that the European Union wants to launch World War III with Poland. Recently, your colleagues talked about the need to adopt a referendum on leaving the European Union. Not by any means, but from your benches it was a proposition. Today I wonder why you want to return to this Eurocorp. Maybe a little bit on the principle that, like fear, it is to God that if there is a problem with Russia, with Belarus, you are looking for help where it can actually exist, where you intuitively feel that it can exist. Today I heard an interview with the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, who told me about Poland's wonderful relations with the countries of the European Union. Only the problem is that the European Union is a very complicated mechanism, but it offers huge opportunities, and that we need to be able to use this mechanism. You can't use it. The European Union is such a wonderful mechanism because it solves conflicts between its members in an ideal way, on the basis that everyone wins, it's not like in normal relations between countries that someone wins, so someone has to lose, etc. Today, the European Union is the place that gives Poland the opportunity to put real pressure on Lukashenka. But you don't want to take advantage of this pressure. You don't talk to Germany, the French or the European Commission about creating real, very strong sanctions that could stop Lukashenka. The entire burden of defending the Polish border is imposed on uniformed services which are on it and its weapons. Well, today you can see how not competent you are, how badly your European policy has damaged Poland in recent years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the Circle of Poland 2050, I declare my support for this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u318	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will traditionally be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u319	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to congratulate the government on the fact that during the period of many disputes with the European Union, it has decided to ratify the Treaty on Eurocorp. This is undoubtedly a step that Poles have expected for years. I would like to ask: In connection with the announcements of your Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński concerning the creation of the most numerous and strongest army in the European Union, will Poland be involved in seeking a special status within this organization? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Pathetic.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u320	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum states: Eurocorpus is intended for mission and operation under the auspices of the European Union, NATO and the United Nations. Accession to Eurocorpus on the rights of the framework State will be an expression of the importance that the Republic of Poland attaches to strengthening European security and emphasising the will to military cooperation with the countries of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! The question is, why have we waited so long for such a bill to appear in the Seym? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u322	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u323	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is another decision of Minister Macierewicz, which is reversed by the government. And it is hard not to resist the impression that it was a minister who, as few people have harmed Poland, harmed Polish interests. Also with regard to this decision to stop the work towards Poland becoming a framework state of this agreement, it is clear that it was a bad decision that was damaging Poland, and today the government changes this decision fortunately. And that's a good thing, of course. And my question is this: Which individuals can be those who become part of Eurocorp? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u324	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government project in question is an excellent example of how the government changes its mind and position, making our country a unreliable partner in the eyes of others. In 2017, the then head of the Ministry of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz wanted to limit our involvement in Eurocorpus. In turn, in 2019 the narrative began to change, because this structure began to become increasingly important in the NATO chain of command. Now, in 2021, the same government claims that accession to Eurocorpus has a significant political dimension and will significantly strengthen the level of security. How can we be treated as a serious partner in such activities? After what time it will be possible to sign the Declaration (the Bell) in November 2021... Thank you very much, Member. ...to get full membership? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u326	Thank you. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Eurocorp is an extremely important element of the security of the European Union and NATO countries. He is even more important to Poland. Therefore, Poland decided to join Eurocorp on the rights of the Associated State in 2002 and then in 2008 it decided, and agreed with its partners that we would be a full member of Eurocorp. However, there were political forces and people who hit these efforts and efforts of Poland, who challenged the Polish state's right. They were Minister Antoni Macierewicz and the Government of PiS, who decided to stop Polish efforts to become a member of Eurocorp. This decision, your actions show how much you do not understand Polish interests, how much you cannot care for Polish interests, how unprepared you are to rule. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u328	Thank you. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland is seeking full membership of Eurocorp, i.e. NATO and the European Union's military rapid response forces. Today we agree to ratify this treaty, but full membership also involves providing the right strength and providing the right strength - with the right equipment. I'd like to ask you about this equipment. When you meet the promises made for 6 years to the PZL-Świdnik factory, [[Applause]] which you promise, especially before the next election, to order battle helicopters? In Świdnik there is a ready-made, modern battle chopper AW139W. You promise to order. I'm asking you when you're gonna make it. When will you make the Polish army better equipped, and when will you strengthen the Polish defence industry and the PZL-Świdnik factory? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u330	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that Poland's accession to Eurocorpus under the full rights of the Framework State is extremely important in terms of security not only of Poland, but also of the European Union, our partners and allies. However, the question arises as to why, despite the fact that the government of Prime Minister Donald Tusk gave the green light in 2008 to join Eurocorp - it has been many years - only now we are trying to ratify the treaty. Is it true that in 2016 you blocked Minister Antoni Macierewicz? I would also like to ask about the costs of our membership of the Eurocorp. How much is this going to be a year? Thank you very much and I ask for your reply in writing as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u332	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Shejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I speak in addition to the club performance. The Left has always insisted that such conflicts, such as those at the border of Poland and Belarus, should be internationalised. I think it's very important. This concerns our membership of NATO, it concerns the UN, the European Union, which is why we were very pleased to adopt, as I have already stressed in my club speech, the decision to amend Mr Antoni Macierewicz's decision and ratify the treaty. I have a very short question: Does the Minister already provide, as part of the Eurocorp strategy, for the provision of assistance to Poland at the border with Belarus in a conflict that is both a breach of peace and a humanitarian crisis? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u334	Thank you. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Poland's accession to Eurocorp is a chance for us to establish an alliance of cooperation in order to maintain peace. The current situation is proof that we are alone in our part of Europe. We don't have any allies. And if we have them, we don't want to use their help. Eurocorp opens the door to the experience of other stronger partners in crisis situations. The question is whether the PiS government will want to benefit from the knowledge and experience of experts who already have their strategies under control. Will you continue to pretend that you can cope with problems, e.g. Influx of refugees? Are you going to ignore the backup signals? That proves your powerlessness and your lack of competence. Take advantage of the knowledge and experience of other countries. Defence isn't a fight, it's a strategy. Let this take place as little as possible at the expense (the bell) of our citizens. Thank you. Security and peace are the most important. Thank you, Member. And I'm asking you to tell me how much...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u336	No, my fellow Member, I'm sorry. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. I warned you that I would stick to time, my fellow Member. I'm sorry. We're already one and a half hours late or two hours late.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u337	Our actions towards the European Union are some kind of crazy policy. What are you doing again? On the one hand, you are complaining that the Union is misusing its competences and on the other hand you are giving it further competences. Can't you really think about it for once before you do something stupid? Is it really that hard to predict what might go wrong in this situation? If I'm not convincing you, if you're not convinced by the doubts that the Confederation is reporting, then I think it's enough for you to listen to what the left-wing opposition is saying today. If they are delighted with this idea, if they say that it is deepening integration, if the same people who are always happy when the Union knocks us down, will give an unfair sentence or want to deepen interference in Polish matters... I think that's the best testimony not to do that. Thank you. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: He couldn't have said anything stupid.]] [[Voice from the room: As usual.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u338	Thank you. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u339	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Poland needs closer integration with the European Union. It is in our interest to increase the security of the Republic of Poland. So it is good that today we are debating a law ratifying the full membership of Poland in Eurocorp. But if membership of the Eurocorp increases the security of Poland, it increases our confidence that others will help us carry out our vital interests, then the question arises of the consequences of who has shifted our membership of the Eurocorp by 5 years. When will he bear this responsibility? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How are you gonna account for him? And so... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u340	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice. And you were supposed to share time with someone, and you're running out of time, Mr Grabarczyk. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u341	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President But Kaczyński after taking office spoke about the need to include Poland in Eurocorp. This case has been raised repeatedly by both President Lech Kaczyński and Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. What is now ratified is simply the consequence of these declarations. I wanted to ask you about the relationship between NATO and Eurocorp, because I think it will lead to a much closer NATO relationship. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u342	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Jach, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u343	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about one thing, and we're about to say something completely different. Ladies and gentlemen, let's decide. [[Voice from the room: That's what you do.]] The initiative for accession to Eurocorp started officially and formally in 2006. In 2008, of course, the Civic Platform government had already started formal negotiations. In 2016, Mr Macierewicz made an extremely good decision in my deep conviction, since at that time Eurocorpus from the unit that was to participate in the missions, to ensure security, became actually a training and mission corps, and only in French Africa. The situation has changed, the tasks of Eurocorpus, Law and Justice have changed: we will be in an important corps. Not like we used to -- we were supposed to be in the training corps. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Macierewicz has to be settled.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u344	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wojciech Saluga, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u345	Thank you, Marshal. By expressing, of course, acceptance of this bill, I wanted to ask what specifics, specialization is intended for Polish troops, especially as regards our contribution to arms, to the Polish arms industry. Where are the ships, the tanks, the helicopters that were supposed to be? And when do we plan to meet the conditions that will actually enable full membership? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u346	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz will answer the questions asked. Come in, Minister. If I could ask for a brief statement, because we're very late... Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to thank the various clubs for their support for the ratification initiative. Thank you, because this is important, this is a very important gesture and I hope that the House will adopt this unanimously, as happened yesterday at the joint committee meeting. High Izbo! I would like to highlight a few points in the context of the questions that have been raised. With regard to the costs of functioning, the involvement of Poland as a framework country, we estimate this cost at PLN 58re 60 million and this will come from the budget of the Minister of National Defence. It is also worth remembering that today, when it comes to the involvement in Eurocorpus, our distribution as an associated country is 69 posts. From 1 January, which is when we ratify it, this will increase to 120 posts. In fact, there are a number of positions negotiated, very important leadership positions. Ladies and gentlemen! A few lines. Mr Jach has already talked about this - the discussion about Poland's involvement in Eurocorp's activities is 2006 and later, 2008 is the start of negotiations for Poland to become a permanent representative, a framework state. Ladies and gentlemen, you're blaming us for not wanting to, we've stepped forward. Just remember your effectiveness when the PO-PSL coalition ran. From 2008 until the end of 2015, you have not been able to make Poland a framework state with your connections, agreements, contacts in the European Union. You weren't able to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, if possible, perhaps Minister Siemoniak or earlier Minister Klich would have implemented this and we would have been a framework state since 2014 or 2015. Please bear in mind one very crucial point: the Eurocorp approach to matters relating to the functioning of the North Atlantic Alliance has changed. These dreams of the so-called are over. the army of the European Union, because it was among others. this reason why we made the decision, the Polish Government decided that we would not apply for the status of the Framework State in 2016. [[There'll be a rug at Kaczyński's.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have decided that the commitment of the North Atlantic Alliance, that the resolution of the Newport Summit, but also the summit in Warsaw, NATO-Ws peaks, will be crucial for the security of Poland and Poles. There is a brigade fighting group, strengthening the presence of allied American troops in Poland and Eastern countries of NATO flank, formats in which allied troops are present, ABCT or eFP, are being developed. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also worth paying attention to one point. In 2015, how many American soldiers were present in the territory of the Republic of Poland? 200? Successive growth has taken place since 2017. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] 200, maybe less than 200, so what are we talking about today, ladies and gentlemen? Our distribution, as I mentioned, is 120 posts since 1 January 2023, commander of Eurocorpus, full accession as a framework country on 1 January 2022. I hope that we will no longer differ in security and defence matters and speak with one voice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u348	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u349	High Seym! Mrs. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - PSL, ED, Conservatives, I will present our position on the report of the committee on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Treaty on Eurocorpus and the status of its Command concluded between the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on 22 November 2004. This proposal concerns the consent of the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify the Treaty on Eurocorpus and the status of its Command concluded between the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in Brussels on 22 November 2004. First of all, I will make it clear that the Coalition Poland Club will vote in favour of ratification. The Eurocorp was created following the so-called Eurocorp. Report from La Rochelle, adopted by the French-German Council on Defence and Security on 22 May 1992 The leading idea, which accompanied the creation of Eurocorpus, was to strengthen the capacity of the European Union (EU) and the North Atlantic Treaty (NATO) to conduct military operations, including humanitarian and rescue missions and peacekeeping missions, as well as the capacity to carry out tasks under NATO collective defence. Accession to Eurocorpus on the rights of the framework State will be an expression of the importance that the Republic of Poland attaches to strengthening European security and emphasising the will to military cooperation with the countries of the European Union. The status of full membership of Eurocorp ensures joint decision-making on the tasks, structure and development of Eurocorp and its use in crisis management operations. As a result, the adoption of the status of the framework State will enable the Republic of Poland to have a more effective impact on the direction of Eurocorpus' involvement, including in NATO's collective defence, and to consolidate the involvement of its command in the NATO chain of command with the possibility to participate in the implementation of the policy of deterrent and defence on the eastern flank.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u350	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on the National Bank of Poland (prints no. 1227 and 1685). I kindly ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u351	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to submit a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on the National Bank of Poland, print no 1227. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 28 May 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for first reading. The Public Finance Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 27 October 2021, brings forward: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u352	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. At the same time, I should warn you that I will strictly follow the time of speech. We're 1 hour and 10 minutes late. First of all, the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Wiesław Janczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u353	Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour on behalf of the club Law and Justice to present in second reading the position of the club in the scope of the Act amending the Act on the National Bank of Poland. The first reading is over. The Public Finance Commission has been working on this document. May I just remind you that the law deals with the implementation of provisions which will agree on the current facts of the situation. The situation was such that, after the amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Poland in 1997, the President of the National Bank of Poland did not issue an order concerning the proceedings after adoption of the opinion, to the assessment of counterfeit cash marks. We want to make things right. The Sejm Committee on Petitions has addressed a proposal in this area. Today we are actually finishing work on a new regulation, which will give the Minister of Justice the opportunity, after consulting the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the President of the National Bank of Poland, to issue a regulation on this matter, which will determine the conditions and procedures for dealing with such expertise, for the opinion of the Money Marks as to their storage, as to the possible return in a situation of unlawful suspicion that these are counterfeits. Ladies and gentlemen! The Law and Justice Club makes one more amendment at second reading. Please include it in the final document. And an additional request. I am applying for the third reading of the bill amending the Act on the National Bank of Poland, seymous prints no 1227 and 1685, Mrs Marshal, without referring to the committee of amendments and proposals submitted to this bill and after the service of their Members. Thank you very much, sir. Is it over? So I've got a motion not to send it to the Committee on Public Finance to continue to process and I'm putting in your hands the Marshal of Corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u354	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Wojciech Saluga.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u355	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! It is a pity that, speaking of this amendment, he did not say what it would be about, because the bill is so short and so concise that it might be quite easy, and we simply do not know. High Izbo! The draft law is the response of the Committee on Petitions of our Sejm to a petition by Mr Sebastian Adamowicz, which the committee considered to be legitimate. The main legal effect of the proposed law will be the elimination of a provision contrary to the Constitution. The Act requires the President of the NBP to issue an order setting out the rules and procedures for the retention of the cash marks of suspects as to authenticity and the handling of counterfeit money marks, which, in turn, has not been the right of the President of the NBP since 1998. The bill imposes on the Minister of Justice obligations to issue in agreement with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, after consulting the President of the National Bank of Poland, an appropriate regulation on this matter up to 3 months after its announcement. At least that's the way it is right now. Of course, it will be very important what this regulation will look like. It should, of course, precisely distinguish several stages of the procedure. With regard to the first stage where the suspicious money mark is retained, the Regulation will define a way of securing that mark so that it is not replaced at a later stage, and issuing a confirmation of the detention by drawing up a protocol. It will also determine what entities and circumstances may retain the money mark, as well as what situations it must take with the participation of the police and what its role should be. With regard to the second stage, where the retained mark must be submitted to the expert opinion in order to confirm or exclude counterfeiting, the Regulation shall determine the manner in which it is transmitted, the conditions to be met by the expert body and the manner in which it is documented. The resolution will also specify further procedures: either the return of the retained money mark when the expert opinion confirms its authenticity or detention for the purposes of the proceedings. During the first reading, the discussion mainly raised the date of entry into force of this law. At least for now in the project it is that this law will enter into force after three months. It is important that this regulation be issued for these three months, because if this is not the case, there will be a legal gap again. I think we should keep that in mind and make sure that there is no such legal gap. The Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club will support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u356	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anita Sowińska, on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u357	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left in relation to the Commission's draft law on amending the Act on the National Bank of Poland. The draft law is the response of the Committee on Petitions to a petition addressed to the Sejm by Mr Sebastian Adamowicz, which the committee considered to be legitimate. The purpose of the Act is to adapt the Act on the National Bank of Poland to the requirements resulting from the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, because the order of the President of the NBP as amended cannot be the source of universally applicable law in accordance with the article. 87. 1 and Article 1 93. 2nd Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This project is very short. These are two articles, the first of which gives the competent minister the authority to issue an appropriate regulation laying down the rules and procedures for the detention of suspected cash marks as regards authenticity and the handling of counterfeit money marks. The draft provides that the regulation should be issued by the Minister of Justice in agreement with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and after consulting the President of the NBP. The second article of the project is about vacathio legis. I would like to stress that in the original draft law, i.e. in print No 1227, we had a proposal to enter into force of this law on 1 September 2021. As a justification, the committee explained that so long, I stress: so long, the vacathio legis was proposed because of the need to draw up and issue a regulation. In the next printing, i.e. printing no. 1685, art. 2 changed and proposed a 3-month period of vacathio legis from the date of the announcement. This raises the first question that I am addressing to the Minister of Justice. What is the reason for such a long delay in the process over this bill? Like I said, the bill is short. However, what the regulation will look like is crucial. According to the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, the law will affect not only the Polish currency, but also other currencies, including the euro. Therefore, a number of European Union legal acts, such as, for example, should be taken into account in the preparation of the Regulation. Council Decision on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting, Council Regulation 2001 laying down measures necessary for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting by Member States which have adopted the euro as their currency, but also a regulation for those countries which have not adopted the euro as their only currency, and the 2014 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on criminal measures to protect the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting. The Sejm Analysis Office also indicates the obligation to consult the draft regulation with the European Central Bank on the basis of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. To conclude, I'm asking questions to the Minister of Justice. Is the draft regulation referred to in the Act ready yet? And if not, at what stage of preparation is it? Does the Regulation take into account all these European Union legal documents and at what stage of consultation, if they already take place, have a draft regulation? Was it prepared in agreement with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs? Has the President of the NBP given an opinion on the regulation? Has it been consulted with the European Central Bank? The Left will support the draft law on amending the Act on the National Bank of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u358	Thank you kindly. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u359	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I would like to say in connection with the detailed discussion of the bill by the predecessors that we will support this project as a club as much as possible. We consider it an extremely necessary solution. We express our gratitude both to the person who signaled this to the committee and to the Committee on Petitions itself for making an effort to prepare this project. It has the advantage of ordering irregularities on the issue of orders by the NBP President on the retention of the cash marks of suspects as to authenticity and the handling of counterfeit money marks. From now on, the regulation will be issued by the Minister of Justice after consulting the President of the National Bank of Poland. We believe that this solution should be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u360	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u361	Dear Marshal! High Seym! As a lawyer and a criminal, I have a problem with this bill, because in my opinion, it simply concerns situations that are about to go away. What used to be a plague today, fortunately, is just a margin. Falsifying cash marks, once and over the centuries threatened with extremely severe punishments, because being a huge social problem, today goes to legend. He goes to the legend along with the cash, that is, with the money signs themselves. If we analyze the last five years, we'll see that. In 2015, 4.5 of the counterfeit money mark was disclosed for each million coins and banknotes. And in 2020 it was already statistically slightly over one counterfeit denomination. You just don't do it anymore because cash is no longer relevant in the modern world. I know that the President of the National Bank of Poland loves cash, that he designs new banknotes and coins. Even the special law on cash protection has been pushed through the Sejm, which is worth adding, no one in the current legal state needed. But technology progress simply cannot be stopped. Cash is and will be marginalized because this is the fate of cash in the world of payment terminals, cybervalues or micropayments. Of course, we will vote in favour of this project. His idea until 50 years ago would have been absolutely correct and justified, but today it is simply marginal - and still valid, although archaic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u362	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question, traditionally Mr Jan Szopiński. Come on in. I admire the consequence, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u363	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For six years each delegation of powers, on any matter, to the current Minister of Justice in our country has involved, in a closer or further future, deep crises in the governing coalition, the problems of the citizens of the Republic of Poland and the weakening of our country's position in the international arena. The list of such cases is extremely long. Therefore, I would like to know why the way in which counterfeit means of payment are dealt with requires a resolution issued by Minister Ziobra, and cannot, as so far, be determined by the internal rules of the National Bank of Poland. If the projector assumes that the NBP President is not competent to make such decisions, why did he not propose to solve the problem at the statutory level? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u364	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u365	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Falsifying cash marks is, of course, a serious problem, especially for those who are victims of this crime. Therefore, I would very much ask for information, in writing, Minister, on how many cases there were in which there was suspicion that there was a fake - this year, from January to the end of October. In how many cases where there was such suspicion, did it actually prove true? What's the detection here? And the third question. I would very much ask for information on the period between the retention of the money mark and its return to the owner in case of non-confirmation of suspicion, in other words how long such analysis takes, how long people have to wait for the money mark to be returned to them (the bell). Thank you very much. [[30 days.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u366	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The time for this amendment is intriguing. This coincides with the period when it started to get warm around President Glapiński - the President, who in the international ranking was ranked among the worst governors of central banks in Europe; the President, who mocked the idea of raising interest rates in September and then raised them twice over the month; and finally the President, for whose term we have the highest inflation for 20 years and who has made his decisions, makes his credibility in the eyes of Poles melt at an express rate. Now we hear that the President is to be given a second term in the National Bank of Poland from the president and the majority of the parliament. If you can retire judges at the age of 65, then why would Mr. Glapiński have to follow orders from the president until the age of 78? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u368	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Wojciech Saluga, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. There isn't. In that case, the list of MEPs was exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Michał Wosia to answer the questions. You're welcome, Minister. I'm asking you to be brief because we're over an hour behind schedule.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u369	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This is indeed a very important project, which is needed in terms of system design. The question was, what led to this change. It's not a resolution, sir, it's a regulation. A regulation will be issued because that is Article. 87 constitutions. It's about the sources of the law. The regulation must not be a source of universal law. On the other hand, I notice a slight double voice in Poland 2050. Namely, Mr Grammar spoke about how irrelevant this law is, while Mr Suchoń said how important it is. In any event, the reply will be given in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u370	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to join the third reading of the draft law without referring it back to the committee after the amendments had been notified. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Office (Print No 1742). I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Maciej Wąsik to present the justification for the bill. Minister, you're welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present to you a government bill amending the Police Act and some other laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Bureau. The provisions of the proposed law will respond to the modern challenges for cybersecurity related to the progress of information technology and the universality of access to it. Cyberspace criminal activity is not so much about creating a new type of crime as it provides new methods and means or provides a new place to commit them. It therefore requires a specialised approach to identifying, identifying and responding effectively to the online environment. The emerging new IT solutions are increasingly becoming both a tool used to commit crimes and a target for criminal activity and are increasingly challenging to detect and combat crime. It is also important to note the constantly and dynamically growing scale of this phenomenon. In 2013, the Council The police opened 18 226 preparatory proceedings in cases related to this type of crime, in which a total of 52 291 offences were found. In 2020, however, these figures amounted to 53 687 preparatory proceedings initiated and 107 518 criminal offences detected respectively. Effective response to such threats requires major changes in police structures to significantly reduce response times from cyberspace, allowing for faster and more effective action. It is therefore necessary to establish a national unit for the organisation of the Police, the Central Office for the Control of Cybercrime, responsible for carrying out the task of identifying, preventing and combating crime committed by means of an IT system, an IT system or an electronic network, detecting and prosecuting the perpetrators of this crime and supporting other police agencies in this respect. So far, actions in this area have been carried out by the Offices for Combating Cybercrime of the Police Headquarters and organizational cells of the Police Voivodship Commands. These structures were therefore dispersed and did not provide a uniform approach, as is the case, for example, with regard to crime organised by the Central Police Investigation Office. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Improving the effectiveness of police action to combat cybercrime requires changes not only with regard to the structure of this formation, but also in the context of recruitment for service: effective and professional training and strengthening of the incentive system for the remuneration of officers. It is necessary to justify and adapt to the modern digital world the selection procedure carried out in relation to candidates for admission to the police service as well as those already serving as officers. The aim will be to recruit candidates for posts for which specialized education, skills or qualifications are required due to the staffing needs of the Police in the field of cyber security. In the case of a candidate for admission to the service of the Central Cybercrime Office for a position relating to the direct identification, prevention and fight against crime committed by means of an IT system, an IT system or an electronic network, and the detection and prosecution of the perpetrators of that crime, part of the selection steps, i.e. knowledge tests and physical fitness tests. This person will also not undergo the process of professional adaptation in the police prevention department or the independent police prevention division. In this case, however, an extremely important step has been added in the form of checking knowledge and skills in computer science, the functioning of IT systems, ICT systems, ICT networks and knowledge of a foreign language covering these fields. The special path of recruitment in the case of an officer seeking admission to the service of the Central Cybercrime Office is based on the nature of the tasks placed before that police organisational unit and is intended to assist in the acquisition of candidates for service with special skills which do not require their connection, e.g. with physical fitness or skills typical of the preventive service. In total, 1800 new jobs are planned to be opened to combat cybercrime in the CBZC. High Izbo! The creation of a new police organizational unit also requires adequate financial resources to enable it to be equipped and the introduction of a incentive payment system. In order to be able to carry out these tasks, it is necessary to increase the co-financing of the police in this area. The current system solutions effectively hinder the recruitment of cybercrime specialists to the police. The project therefore envisages the adoption of a modified mechanism to determine the level of salaries of officials directly combating cybercrime. A monthly service in the CBZC of not less than 70% will be introduced and not more than 130% the average salary of police officers, the amount of which will depend on the assessment of the performance of the police officer's duties and the performance of the tasks and duties entrusted to him. With the percentage forks indicated above, it will be no less than 4300 and no more than 8 000 for today. zł. High Izbo! The newly created CBZC will have the full opportunity to carry out operational and research, investigation and administrative and order activities under the existing Police Act on the basis of the principles envisaged so far. Proposed amendment of the Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Police Act, by supplementing the catalogue of offences for which operational control is possible, aims to increase the speed and efficiency of police response in the fight against and prevention of cybercrime and to equip them with the necessary tools for this purpose. It is therefore necessary to enable the police to carry out operational and exploratory activities to the full extent in relation to offences such as making contact with a minor via the Internet for pedophiles, public promotion of pedophilia, deliberate notification of a non-existent threat, so-called. false alarms, destruction of IT data and disruption of their processing, disruption of the functioning of IT systems, computer fraud. With regard to the proposed changes concerning operational control, it should be pointed out with all determination that they do not concern conditions, mode, management control or use. It will continue to be of a subsidiary nature, i.e. may be used when other measures prove ineffective or are not useful and formalised. It is precisely defined, among others. the manner in which the materials obtained are handled. In addition, at each stage of the operational control, the prosecution has guaranteed access to all the materials obtained and the operational control itself is subject to a decision of the court. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to make an assessment of the solutions presented in the draft, given the consideration of the ladies and gentlemen. However, I would like to stress that the proposed bill aims to increase the effectiveness of police action and, consequently, to increase the level of security and public order of Polish residents. The adoption of the law will result in an increase in the state's ability to respond to cybercrime incidents and provide for a uniform system of preparation for such activities throughout the country. With this in mind, I ask the High House to support the Government's draft law amending the Police Act and certain other laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u372	Thank you kindly, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Club Law and Justice, Mr Paweł Hreniak will present his position to the High House. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u373	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, a position on the draft law amending the Police Act and certain other laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Office for Combating Cybercrime. High Izbo! I am convinced that no one in this room needs to be proved that there has been an increasing problem with cybercrime and that it is not just our Polish problem, but it is something that goes far beyond the borders of our country. The problem is, of course, the result of new threats on the Internet, as well as the use by criminals of increasingly new and modern technologies as tools for committing crimes. The world is changing, and we need to keep up with these changes, including in the security dimension, and adapt our services to the emerging new challenges. The answer to these threats is the establishment of a new formation within the police, like the CBI, the Central Cybercrime Bureau. I am convinced that the Central Office for Combating Cybercrime, like the CBI, will succeed in the fight for our security, and that all those who participated in its vocation will have a great reason to be proud in a few years. The key to combating cybercrime will be a modern formation armed with appropriate legal tools, properly equipped and motivated. In accordance with the provisions of the bill, we propose as a political environment the establishment of a national police organizational unit, a new service within it, responsible for identifying, preventing and combating cybercrime and prosecuting the perpetrators of these crimes. What will distinguish this formation from all other types of police service will be the scope of the tasks performed, the system of recruitment and training of officers, as well as the remuneration increasing the attractiveness of the service in relation to the wages available on the labour market. The tasks of the Central Cybercrime Control Office will include: Combating crime related to online fraud, identity theft Or the fight against paedophiles who often search for their victims in Intrenet. The recruitment system for the new formation within the Police is to be adapted to the tasks we want to put before this formation. Resigns in the Act, among others. from fitness tests for the search for persons with specialist knowledge and IT education. That's how we rationalize the recruitment system. In order to increase the financial attractiveness of the service, a benefit of - as the Minister has already said - not less than 70% per month will be introduced. and not more than 130% The average payback of the cops. It is assumed that the Central Cybercrime Office will serve 1800 officers, i.e. in 2022 there will be 300 officers, and then another 500 will arrive every year until 2025. The Act assumes that within 4 years the formation will receive a target number of highly qualified officers. It is worth noting that the proposed amendments to the Police Act are further legal regulations in line with the provisions of the Responsible Development Strategy to increase the effectiveness of the state in preventing and combating crime. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The proposed law, through new professional tools, gives us the chance to take an equal fight against cybercrime. Crimes in the network are a huge challenge facing the Polish Police, and our task as a legislative authority is to give this formation legal regulations that will allow the police to effectively ensure the safety of Poles on the network. The Law and Justice Club believes that the bill submitted to the High House is an effective tool. The Act will allow the establishment of a professional formation, which will be the Central Office Fight Cybercrime. For this reason, while awaiting positive results, our club will support the bill presented in the draft. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u374	Thank you, sir. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u375	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Law and Justice Club Member, but also the Minister spoke a lot about the fact that it would be a new formation. In a moment, I will prove to you that this is not a new formation at all. But for starters, the weak state is multiplying the service, and it can be said that the authoritarian state is multiplying the service. You are convinced that another institution will fight pedophilia online, you will oppose fraud, theft, manipulation of various types of attacks, cyber threats. The problem is, Minister, as you say, it will be a new formation. It's not gonna be a new formation. In the structure of the Police Headquarters, ladies and gentlemen, there is an Office for Combating Cybercrime, and the task of this office is to supervise, coordinate and support the fight against cybercrime activities carried out by the Police; to carry out operational and exploratory activities that remain within the office's competence; to initiate and cooperate with government administrations, courts, prosecutors, state institutions, private entities in the field of tasks that remain within the office's competence; to conduct international cooperation; to conduct 24/7 services to coordinate police activities, etc. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Polish Police already have these tools. It turns out that Minister Kaminski and Minister Wąsik do not know that you already have such tools. The absolute hit, ladies and gentlemen, is that all voivodeship commands have offices like this. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: I was talking about it. I've read about it...]] Whenever the PiS says, ladies and gentlemen, that you are doing something for the citizens, it does something actually against the Poles. The new service is simply meant to be a tool for surveillance of millions of Poles. As part of this, you will be able to simply look at our phones, our computers, and you will monitor Poles as you do with the Central Anti-corruption Office. The appointment of a new service, ladies and gentlemen, coincides in exactly the time with the e-mail leak from Minister Dworczyk's mailbox. Is that a coincidence? Of course not. But is that a reason to create a new institution just to cover the errors in the hygienic behaviour of your representatives? You don't follow the basic security rules, so you figured a new service would do it for you. You want to multiply jobs and expenses just because you can't manage what you already have. Ladies and gentlemen! It's just an announcement of new problems. The CBA has as much to do with anti-corruption today as the IPN has to do with memory and TVP with information. So it can be made clear that your government has as much in common with cybercrime and its fight as the e-mails of Minister Dworczyk. Ladies and gentlemen! What this institution will look like in the hands of the Law and Justice, one can easily describe on the example of the Central Anti-corruption Office. September 26, 2017 - the same name, same name, same town, but another person, the resident of Płock spent several hours detained by the Central Anti-corruption Bureau, because the agents of the Central Bureau confused him with another suspect. 2020 - the famous confession of Agent Tomek, the same one you are fighting today. Agent Tomek says: The operating fund that was pumped into me was unlimited. Luxury cars, expensive jewelry, expensive branded clothes or watches. That's how TVN spoke about the CBA of the then representative. In January, a report by Agent Tomek was broadcast on TVN. At the time, Agent Tomek accused the former head of the CBA of Mariusz Kaminski and former Deputy Chief Maciej Wąsik of exerting pressure on him during the operation concerning the alleged villa of Alexander and Jolanta Kwasniewski. Kaczmarek worked at the Central Anti-corruption Office in 2006 and 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, how can we trust you? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that you are proposing that all police officers be transferred from the D.A.'s office. the fight against crime in the police for a new service and subject them to verification, including a polygraph. But what will happen, ladies and gentlemen, to those cops who won't pass a positive verification in your opinion, and what will this verification be? Dear Minister, You say it will allow for better coordination, but there are other institutions and services (the bell) in our country, military intelligence... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club. Thank you. Time's up. Thank you very much. But, Mr... ... The Civic Coalition requests rejection at first reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u376	Good. You're welcome. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u377	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The beginning of the third decade of the 21st century is, on the one hand, the galloping processes of globalisation, on the other, the civilization experience associated with the pandemic. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the digitalisation process was accelerated and integrated cybersecurity measures should therefore become a key element in ensuring a functioning country. Now we have various types of interference that affect cyberspace. Their effects are often catastrophic, limited efficiency in the functioning of public administration. The lack of adequate cybersecurity may affect both natural and legal persons. The role of the state is therefore to create such conditions to combat cybercrime, which will ensure its level and respond to the challenges of the present. Secure cyberspace is a guarantee of the opportunity to benefit from technological development, rapid response and the fight against incidents. Disrupting the proper functioning of state information and control systems can be critical and we should be able to counter it. Therefore, it seems reasonable to set up a service that will uphold cybersecurity and be a new diversion in the fight against digital criminals. However, the new entity should be well organized and perform tasks very professionally. In the proposed draft amendment to the Police Act and some other laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Office, there are many shortcomings that may hinder the smooth functioning of the service in the future. The government proposes to set up a new type of service within the police structures, which will deal with cybersecurity, and yet some of these tasks are already in place. It is therefore reasonable to ask whether such service should not be an individual institution. The Left has already submitted a draft law which provides for the establishment of a Cybersecurity Agency and the creation of an institution that performs preventive and educational tasks. The intention of the authors was among others. such that the Agency is established under the supervision of the President of the Council of Ministers and cooperates closely with other actors. It would be a key civil institution for protecting the interests of the Republic of Poland. The difference between the institution from this government project and the whole new agency is important. In the government project, more attention is given to response to incidents, and in the Left project, preventive and training activities. In support of the government project, the authors rightly pointed out that the police were not fully prepared to fight modern forms of crime, especially cybercrime. This is due, among other things. of the nature of the activities carried out by the criminal service in which the organisational cells fighting cybercrime function. According to the authors in the explanatory memorandum, in most cases the actions of police officers fighting cybercrime begin when information is obtained, and that is a mistake. The authors further stress that the current police structure, the number of posts and the forces and means available do not allow effective fight against this barrier and that it will be difficult to operate in the area of cybersecurity to an extended extent. The left was particularly attentive to government negligence in the fight against cybercrime. Six years of omissions are the least of the charges that can be charged with power. It is also worth recalling the use of cyberspace for political warfare, in which state services played an important role. I remind you here, among other things. the case of Senator Krzysztof Brejza and many other incidents indicating the politicisation of services to counter cybersecurity threats. Despite many doubts, however, we believe that strengthening state protection in the area of cybersecurity is important and necessary. We want to work on this bill, but we also want to make sure that new units do not become a place to fight against citizens in cyberspace. We will submit amendments concerning, among others. supervising the service and identifying specific tasks that will exclude the political influence of the governing party. The new service must not be a whip on insubordinate citizens expressing their dissatisfaction on the Internet, and secure cyberspace is a Polish state right. Such a law will be claimed by the Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u378	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Biernacki, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u379	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I present my position on the governmental draft law amending the Law on Police and some other laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Office for Combating Cybercrime. In place of the existing offices of the Central Office for Combating Cybercrime, its emancipation and strengthening in structural and financial terms, we consider it a good step. It's a good thing it finally happened. Of course, we think it may have happened sooner, but the direction to follow is good. I would also like us to be able to see how the future office will work throughout the state's security structure, especially in terms of cybersecurity. This, this strategy and this system, we're missing. We also believe, Minister - and this is a very important issue - that during the work of the committee we should address the definition of phenomena that exist, function in cyberspace, define them legally, and define the scope of operational activities that appear in cyberspace. As we well know, today it is practically undefined and sometimes resembles a free American, and not only in our home. This requires a very strict and precise definition, because human rights, citizens' rights must be protected, and therefore any interference of services, even in the right interest, must be well described and supervised. And that's a very important element for us. We also believe that the Department of Information Security, under which CERT operates, should be supported and financed in some way. This should also be inevitable and should go, as we believe, on a two-track basis. However, the draft law establishing the Central Office for Combating Cybercrime should be dealt with comprehensively together with the draft law on specific remuneration rules for persons carrying out cybersecurity tasks. This project provides for the creation of the Cybersecurity Fund and determines the remuneration of persons carrying out these tasks. Separate adoption of these projects... This is done within the various parliamentary committees. It may not be the government's fault, but there has been some misunderstanding in the Sejm, because the joint committees should work on this: the administrative committee and the committee of modern technologies, i.e. IT. I don't know what it's like... Separate adoption of these projects could create a pay gap among experts dealing with cybercrime in the public sector. This may lead to the departure of the best personnel from the Police to other public sector units dealing with cybersecurity. The fact is, in the article. 120b is indicated an allowance related to the service in the CBZC of 70% It's 120%. salaries, but it is doubtful that these are measures comparable to those of the Cybersecurity Fund and the private sector, although such assurances are, of course, justified. It is also assumed that Warsaw will be the seat of the new institution. It is worth considering whether it would be better to move this headquarters to another city, where on the one hand there are qualified staff, but also these staffs are much, let's not hide, cheaper. It's worth thinking about. I also believe that it is necessary to clarify and specify - here I no longer want to go into details - the criteria for admission to the service. First of all, there should be a clear, precise standard for officers. They not only need to be morally clean, but they must also be professionals, they must have a great knowledge of languages, including English, and they must have international certificates to confirm their knowledge. I mean, there's studies in these directions. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're gonna be working on this project. Of course, we ask that he be referred to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. I hope that our work will be fruitful, because it is a sphere that has been slightly planted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u380	Thank you very much, sir. You're still a female marshal. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, on behalf of the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u381	Fighting cybercrime is of course an important issue, but if we really need a formal separation of another new service, such a paper transfer or a new badge for uniforms, I'm not convinced anymore. And the reading of this law does not dispel doubts, because from the law itself we can learn more about who appoints who there, who replaces who, where will be the seat or what will happen, for example. The candidate will download on the test rather than on why we need all of this at all, what it will actually change for us. Unfortunately, the effectiveness of the fight against cybercrime does not depend on the professional relations within the police or on the cut of the badge on the uniform, so I'm afraid that this is a rather apparent action. I'm afraid it's such a bureaucratic struggle that looks good on paper, but in practice, unfortunately, it reveals the symptoms of multiplying existence beyond the need. Interestingly, however, the explanatory memorandum regrets that in most cases - this is a quote - the actions of police officers fighting cybercrime start at the moment of information about the incident, thus the perpetrators of criminal offences are one step ahead of the law enforcement authorities. Well, is the legislator going to get the cops to take action before they know or to find out about the incidents before they do? Both of these ideas sound dangerous. Unfortunately, it seems to me that we must accept the fact that the police react when something happens, when the crime is committed, otherwise we would probably live in a camp of a big brother who would read our minds. We'd rather avoid it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u382	Thank you very much. And Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u383	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I'm gonna start with what's out of the question and what's undoubtedly out of the question. There is no doubt that in the modern digital world the number of threats that arise in this modern digital world will grow and will increase. It is worth quoting the statement of one of my previous speakers who said from this speaker that safe cyberspace is a Polish state right. I fully share this idea, I fully support this slogan, because the progressive modernity, the progressing technology development in a crazy way generates and will certainly generate events that are bordering the legal and illegal world, including events that are just crimes. The increase in the number of these incidents, the increase in their weight - that is also beyond the issue, this must be combated. We are in this good situation that in the Polish country we have outstanding specialists in reporting such computer incidents, ICT incidents. These specialists today are focused rather outside police structures, but they are, they function. Not further than yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Innovation and Digitisation, we debated a legislative act that grants them special salaries. This act is also in our view, of all means worthy of support. I am not convinced by the thinking that the Minister has included in the explanatory memorandum to this bill. You're writing about the new unit being set up, the equipment of this unit, the construction of the headquarters for this new unit. That's not good thinking. Computer incidents are not incidents where explaining, x-raying, obtaining evidence will help new headquarters or equipment. These are incidents that require specialized, unique knowledge, and I fear that redeployment of the number of employees of this new service at the level of 1800 posts will not be equivalent to obtaining from the market 1800 educated specialists for whom the digital world has no secrets. It also frightens me to extend the catalogue of acts, the catalogue of crimes in respect of which you allow the application of operational control. This frightens me not because I believe that such crimes should not be touched, but I believe that the system of reporting such cases of the application of operational control in our country is far imperfect, and the control itself, of course, enters very deeply into the privacy (the bell) of Poles and Poles. We'll be working on this project on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u384	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. We're running late, so I'm gonna turn off the mic after a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act lists a number of key posts on which police officers are to be filled. There are all the commanders of all possible formations here, people who should be a role model, or, as it is termed in the PiS nomenclature, people crystal. This law tells us that these people need not be subject to any verification. The bill says they can be subject, but if they can, it's not mandatory. So I would like to ask a perhaps very unpopular question, but the question is: Isn't it that, according to this law, it is possible to appoint all brothers-in-laws or persons needed in order to fight the opposition? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u386	Thank you. Member Rafał Adamczyk, club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u387	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum states: At present, the Polish Police, as well as the law enforcement authorities of other countries, are not fully prepared to fight modern forms of crime, especially cybercrime. Minister: Do you think that 1800 jobs to be created are enough to fight cybercrime? Should we not increase and speed up the activation of these posts in the coming years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u388	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u389	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the art. 9, which in fact can serve as a de facto cleanhouse in the ranks of officers who are currently dealing with cyber crime. I wanted to ask you why the Ministry and the government decided, in fact, that after five months, all officers could be expelled from the service. Secondly, has there been an analysis of the powers of officers and, if so, how, how it looks, what competences have been carried out? Are these officers here today? And the third question, I would very much ask you to explain: Will the office have its offices also in former voivodship cities such as Bielsko-Biała? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u390	Thank you. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. There isn't. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of cyberattacks is growing and will grow, as more and more of our lives are moving online. The detection of computer crimes is falling dramatically, especially in the electronic banking sector. It's estimated to be less than 10%. The law rightly provides the police with increased funds, i.e. the possibility of attracting experts from the private market when it comes to computers. I have a question. Some banks don't even report attacks, afraid of losing their good name. What will be the cooperation of the new type of police with banks in order to increase detection and reduce the number of cyber attacks (the bell) on individuals... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u392	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u393	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project involves the employment of 1800 employees. This means a sixfold increase in the power available to the police today to fight cybercrime within three years. Where are you going to get this number of qualified staff, mostly IT specialists ready to work, if there are no such specialists in the free market? The project proposes a service allowance ranging from 70% to 130% an average salary, which is not even the half offered to professionals with high qualifications. Isn't it gonna end up in offices, modern equipment, just not gonna have anyone to work or employ weak specialists, filling in the gaps? How is such a scenario planned to be countered? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u394	Thank you. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u395	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Central Bureau of Cybercrime Control. Minister Cieszyński is the government's attorney for cybersecurity. This organizational unit would have at its disposal about PLN 300 million. That was the amount we had last night when we had a discussion. [[Voice from the room: 150.]] Minister, Minister Cieszyński after his recent purchases of ventilators at the arms dealer does not inspire any confidence at all. I wouldn't trust him with a penny to spend on public money. [[That's why he didn't trust you.]] I don't believe you, I don't believe the government that this is really about fighting cybercrime. How can you convince us of this? Maybe it's better to spend that money on treating children with SMA, because it's very expensive. We'd save a dozen kids' lives. Where's the other bottom? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u396	Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u397	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Cybercrime is, of course, a challenge of our time, and it is right that the government has started dealing with this subject, all the more so that the government has the biggest issue of e-mail leakage. Therefore, the questions. Would this new service, of its own motion, be primarily concerned with downloading those persons who have these e-mails, illegally making them available, or by Minister Dworczyk, who used private means of communication to transmit public information, including classified information, or the disclosure of crimes that appeared after disclosure of those e-mails? That's what I'd like to ask the Minister - first of all. And secondly, we are actually dealing with the creation of a new special service. Question: "What will the coordination look like?" Is that gonna be... So far, so good. It's actually gonna be a new special service. Will the Minister for the Interior (The Bell) be involved in this, or will the Special Services Coordinator? Today it's... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u398	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u399	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The issue of government action on cybersecurity is important, so I wanted to ask you a specific question: Have you considered setting up a whole new service, an agency that might not be within the police force that we could disable? This could help us coordinate it better with other services. Anyway, that's what we made. I would ask you, Minister, to answer in writing and to consider this, because it seems that an additional place in the Cybersecurity Police System may limit the capabilities of this service. So I would very much ask that we be able to approach this topic more widely, especially since today is the first reading and we will continue to work on it for weeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u400	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u401	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As we already know, ladies and gentlemen, the new Central Cybercrime Office is to be established from separate offices for the fight against cybercrime located in the Police Headquarters, as well as in voivodship headquarters. Ladies and gentlemen! It is right here that Mr Biernacki pointed out, in order to define, once again, the operational and cognitive activities which will be completely opposite and completely different to those already defined. This is a completely different matter. Cybercrime is characterised by completely different, undefined values today, and this should be the first thing this new office should take care of. My concern, ladies and gentlemen, is the fact that you intend to recruit 500 specialists to this new office within the year. After all, the remuneration and allowances in question are 130% However, they may discourage entry into the ranks of this office, because we know that private companies also have a problem (the bell) on the market... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u402	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u403	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Today we will be voting on the Cybersecurity Fund Act. The Minister responsible for digitalisation indicated that the employee's remuneration would be around 40,000. zł. So the state, by setting up the Central Cybercrime Bureau, is showing modest pay. The possibility of recruiting more staff to this central office also raises doubts. And yesterday we looked at the budget of the Minister of National Defence and there significant amounts of money are devoted to the fight against cybercrime. Don't you think that soon the Minister of Health will request another cybercrime control office or any other minister? You guys didn't get along about the Central Corruption Office when you bought the ventilators... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u404	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. Thank you very much, Member. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, I'm sorry. You're welcome, sir. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And you're acting inappropriately. You're welcome, sir. I'm asking you kindly to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u405	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The security issue in cyberspace will take on meaning. From year to year of these crimes that are being committed in the virtual world, there will be more and more, because we are increasingly using the services offered by the Internet. On the other hand, I would like to express my great appreciation on this occasion for all police officers working in various areas, not only in our localities, also at the border. And I would very much ask you to express your respect for the police, not to politicize this service, to have respect for experienced officers, with knowledge, with commitment, not just to judge them in terms of availability. I would also ask that, when it comes to financial issues, the decent compensation of police officers should not only apply to those in the field of cyberspace, but also to those in all areas. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u406	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u407	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Indeed, cybercrime is a growing problem, which will certainly increase. The proposed law can create a prosthesis that will actually help to combat this problem. On the other hand, I wanted to ask a specific, substantive question. Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! Do you not think that the Department of Information Security of the Internal Security Agency should not be excluded and strengthened so-called. CERT? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u408	Thank you, Member. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u409	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS is talking about cybersecurity, and in fact the last few months, Minister, this is your embarrassment. All of Poland reads Dworczyk's e-mails, so maybe this is an opportunity right now, ladies and gentlemen, to finally stand before the High House and explain this situation. How is it possible that from the private mailbox everyone can find out about tenders, about buying complex military equipment? This is absolutely outrageous, and for the past few months you have shown that cybersecurity does not exist, and those responsible or the most important members of the Council of Ministers have really compromised themselves using private boxes. Maybe it's time, Minister, to explain the situation, who's behind it, and why you can't explain it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u410	Thank you. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u411	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Central Cybercrime Control Office is absolutely necessary and necessary. I merely propose that the Polish Security Printing Works, which has the best specialists in the field of Polish government administration, be able to cooperate with the police in a business way. Besides, the company is subordinate to the Minister. It is important to integrate all these resources that concern cybersecurity in the area of the state. This will be excellent support for the new service. And then there's the second line. They're asking the right questions about the staff. Perhaps it is a good idea to start working with several universities as soon as this office has been established, e.g. with the Opole University of Technology, in terms of providing personnel for this very important service. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u412	Thank you kindly. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u413	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I have a question. When will this one of yours rise? The new fantastic service to combat cybercrime, will it take care of Minister Michał Dworczyk? Will he take care of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and other members of the Polish government who used their private boxes to send information that is sensitive from the point of view of the Polish state? Isn't that also a cyber crime? And will the new service deal with all cybercrime or just those that are convenient for you? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u414	Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u415	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm asking you a specific question. What about those police officers for the fight against cybercrime who won't pass the verification of the Minister who won't, perhaps, be available to the current authority who won't follow political orders? What about those men who are bound by orders, working at the police station? What are you gonna do with them? Where are you gonna move them? Where will they continue their work for Poles and Poles? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u416	Thank you. The last question will be asked by Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition. Politely, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u417	At the end of the reign of the last tsars, one man - Lenin, from whom you draw much, said that a country in which there are more police than teachers, this is an authoritarian and police state. It's not like we're here yet, but you're trying, you're trying. You're funding us another service now, 2,000. well-trained and well-paid people. Why, since there's already a cybersecurity cell in every police department? It's to keep an eye on the whole community. Paradoxically, as an opposition, we should not worry about it, because in such a semi-automatic country as Poland, you will first check your own. So, on your behalf, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, we will be against this law at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u418	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Minister Maciej Wąsik to answer the questions raised. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u419	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for all these speeches, both club and questioning that came out of this speaker. I wanted to answer in this way, to emphasize one thing: it will not be a new service. I say this to all countries who, especially here, on this side of the political scene, have not read this law and asked whether it would be supervised by the coordinator or the Minister of Home Affairs. This is the police, this is a change to the law on the police. It's supposed to be a service that's created like the Central Bureau of Investigation, ladies and gentlemen. I will take this opportunity to see that in this Chamber is the founder of the Central Bureau of Investigation, Marek Biernacki, then Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, who created a service that dealt with Polish organised crime. It was a great project, Mr. President, and it still works today. We would like to model the structure of the office that fights cybercrime, precisely what the Member, then the Minister of Home Affairs, created at the end of the 1990s. It's not gonna be a new service, it's gonna be cops. In order for the police to be able to work in this service, they must be well paid, because the market sucks the professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the supplement comes from. As you have noticed, and this is what Mr Biernacki said, yesterday was the first reading of an urgent government project with specific rules for the remuneration of those carrying out cybersecurity tasks. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 is also added to the police. In addition to the additions provided for by the CBZC Act, it will be possible to draw from this fund, which Minister Janusz Cieszyński spoke about yesterday. I would like to reassure you... perhaps Minister Biernacki, who spoke in his speech about the need for simultaneous proceedings over both laws. We have coordinated these records at government level, and I am convinced that what you have said has already been done. And what we didn't do is we will, Minister, on the committees, because we're open to cooperation. The question is, why do we want to create this specialized pawn? Because police officers in these offices that fight cybercrime, which are at the level of voivodeship commands, primarily earn as much as their colleagues do other tasks. They cannot compete with what the market offers them. There's a drain of professionals. We have to pay them well. And in order to act effectively, there must be an institution specialized within the police, just like the CBI, because that's what we thought. Right now, let me remind you, there are 360 officers who are involved in the fight against cybercrime. It's definitely not enough, and they're underpaid. We want to give them better job opportunities, better equipment, better headquarters, better conditions, better structure. I wanted to stress that those cops who fail to pass the verification will remain in police structures and will perform other work tasks. Nobody gets fired from the police because they didn't get into the cybercrime division at the CBC. That's what I wanted to guarantee you and, of course, those cops. We need cops all the time, we have deficits in this area, the number of vacancies is decreasing, but there's still some left. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gawkowski asked why we would not create a new service. Because it's supposed to be... The Cybersecurity Act divides the entire order of cybersecurity into three parts: the military - it is dealt with by MON, the gov sphere, the government - which is handled by CERT and generally by ABW, and NASK - which deals with other Internet users, the most of whom are. But NASK isn't after him. NASK secures, NASK can educate, but it doesn't pursue. That is why we believe that we need a service that protects not government institutions, not the Sejm, but the grey citizens. That's why it's the police. Every citizen's first reaction to a crime is a call to the police. That's why we wanted it to be in police structures, where of course there's a big beginning. It is over 300 officers who are currently fighting cybercrime. We also made that decision by looking at the experience of the Central Bureau of Investigation. When there was a challenge, there was also a courageous decision of the Minister of Home Affairs of that time. That's a very good result. I hope that the effect will be similar here. There were many different types of questions and comments. On the other hand, I would like to address one speech in a critical way. Mr Frysztak, there is no way in the club speech to propose that military intelligence be prosecuted at the level of the citizen by the prosecution of cybercrime. Ladies, first of all, the intelligence works outside the country. Secondly, the interview does not carry out procedural tasks. How do you see the prosecution of crime through intelligence? It's just funny. I would like to stress that this is not a service against someone. It's not about teasing someone. This is citizen service, which is why we want it to be the police. We see - this is mentioned in the justification of the law - how cybercrime is growing at the level of gray citizens. It's not about the e-mail thing, it's about the citizens. Hacking into bank accounts, various types of fraud whether phishing also affects citizens. We must have a service that will help them. This will be the task of the police cyber-arm. I would very much like to ask all Members who have doubts to report them to the committees. We're open, we'll talk about it. We are convinced that we are able to convince you, possibly accept your comments and amendments to this project, so that it is as good as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u420	Thank you, Minister. [[Your marshal, in corrigendum mode.]] The Member shall be corrected. Half a minute, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u421	Minister! You're confabulating, of course. What you said is a denial of what I said. You said that the appointment of this service would allow for better coordination. That won't allow for coordination, because you have counterintelligence, intelligence, cyber security forces, and you actually have Homeland Security. All these units work independently. It must be made clear that this will not improve coordination in any way. It should also be added that such formation already exists within the police. This is the Cybercrime Bureau. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u422	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 5:30 p.m., when we vote. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 18 hours 17 min 37]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 1771. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - to prevent unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products, - amending the Waste Act and certain other laws, - amending the Law on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes, - amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 1770, 1738, 1750 and 1751 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, - amending the Law on the Protection of Forest and Agricultural Lands, - of family custody capital, - amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law on Specific Support Instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus, - amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the law - Road traffic law. The reports shall be printed in 1757, 1773, 1746, 1749, 1752 and 1735 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We have two formal applications. Here you are, Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition, a formal proposal. Please, one minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u423	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I request a 2-hour break to be prepared by the Minister of Health and Prime Minister Morawiecki on the government's strategy in the fight against COVID. [[Applause]] Poles feel threatened, Poles feel not only expensive, but also huge fear that this wave will become bigger and bigger. What do you guys do? Once again, only with inner castles, how to secure the majority in parliament and leave Poles to themselves. 25,000. Get sick today. Nearly 500 deaths. This is the result of your government's lack of politics. You're not doing anything. [[Applause]] Today you give Poles not only the most expensive holidays, but you give Poles the most restless holidays for years as a result of your incompetence, arrogance and closing your eyes (the bell) for this biggest problem today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u424	Thank you, sir. As a request for interruption has been submitted, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Just a minute.]] Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 195 - for, 236 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u425	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Quote: increases in gas and energy prices are necessary because the Treasury companies can no longer bear the costs. Yesterday's statement - Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of State Assets Jacek Sasin. What's it like, Minister? Could they have taken 70 million zlotys for an envelope election? They could have. 1.5 billion PLN for a lefty in Ostrołęka could they have taken? They could have. For purchase of Polish Press could they take another 100 million PLN? They could have. [[Voice from the room: They could.]] And the expensive one that torments Polish poor pensioners, the Rentists, can't? [[Applause]] Mr. President Kaczyński! You promised the Poles that the times of imposibilism would be over, and here we are dealing with imposibilism in the best form today. Hungarians could have relieved their citizens so that the prices wouldn't go up at gas stations? They could have. Why can't the PiS government take a good example from Hungary once? [[Applause]] Therefore, a formal request for adjournment, your marshal, and inclusion in the procession (the bell) of the draft PSL law reducing VAT on electricity to 8%. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u426	Thank you, sir. As a motion for adjournment has been made, I will put this request to the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House... [[Vice President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of State Assets Jacek Sasin: Marshal, may I?]] Ah, well, Prime Minister Sasin. There you go. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u427	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! [[It'll be expensive.]] Mr President, a very good speech, but not this place. Go to the European Commission. [[Applause]] [[Ostrołęka.]] Go there and ask for Polish citizens who are burdened with the European Union's climate policy today. Because today, the fact that energy is more expensive in Poland is due to the European Union, the European Commission, which is imposing a climate policy on the citizens. Please go to Brussels and encourage Polish citizens there. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u428	Thank you, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to appeal for mutual respect for myself, really. [[Then we have to start with Mr Terletki.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you can't hear what the Prime Minister is saying at all. It's just, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, what someone you're jamming is heard on TV because the microphones collect this voice. You can't hear your screams, but behavior deserves, ladies and gentlemen, but attention. Please, a formal request for adjournment has been made. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[I'm entitled to that. I'm asking you to pay attention...]] We're waiting on the results of the vote. 437 Members voted. 200 for, 231 against, six stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Your marshal, however, I would appeal for mutual respect...]] Mr President, I urge you to listen to what the Marshal says, because this is your primary duty. Here you are, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, the Confederation, with a formal proposal. [[May I?]] No, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation, formal proposal. [[Sit down.]] [[Voice from the room: Wash your ears.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't shout out because it really doesn't do any good. Please, all of you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u429	I would like to request an urgent addition to the agenda about information about what happened at the climate summit, where the Polish delegation agreed on behalf of Poland to prohibit the use of cars. Nothing like this has ever been consulted with Poles. You betrayed Poland's interests, the Germans didn't sign it, the French didn't sign it, and we sillyly signed some idiotic commitment without consulting anyone. Neither this House nor society have ever agreed to this. What right has this obligation been made on behalf of the Republic of Poland? Please explain and withdraw from these commitments as a matter of urgency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u430	Thank you. This is not a formal conclusion, so we have nothing to vote on. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u431	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! [[Voice from the room: Oh, my, quieter.]] You really need to have one. A huge nerve to go out on the stand, to blame for the cost of energy on the European Union and to charge PLN 24 billion for it this year. Because you love to blame the European Union, and you forget to add that money from the sale of CO2 rights affects the Polish budget. You will delete this year, I repeat, PLN 24 billion. What did you do with the money? [[Voice from the room: They drank.]] You burned them instead of investing in new, clean, cheap energy sources that would protect Polish wallets from expensive electricity. Minister, account for PLN 24 billion in front of the nation. With this money, you should pay for electricity and invest in new, clean energy sources. Come on, everybody. Let's get to work. [[Applause]] [[Game in the O.R.]] Member of the Commission, Member of the European Parliament... Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a discussion. We're not discussing. It was supposed to be a formal conclusion. Madame, this was not a formal proposal and you know it very well. Your marshal, however, would recommend a visit to... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u432	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Here you go, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a point at the end of the Sejm meeting like statements. These speeches are suitable for statements, not for formal requests.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u433	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a formal proposal not to allow Members of the opposition to speak who are not telling the truth. Mrs. Hennig-Kloska is lying. Well, we have a deficit of rights this year. We need to buy more than 65 million tons of power. 65 million times 60 euros is 18 billion euros, which will leak out of state borders, so please tell me the truth. On the other hand, I would like to make it clear to Mr PSL. Mr Rzep is the first PSL politician who admitted Mr Sasin right yesterday. It is the European Union that robs us and Mr Rzepa has declared that he is in favour of the reform of the EU ETS. And as far as PSL is concerned, withdraw from your scandalous declaration this week. Waldemar Pawlak attacked LNG gas, saying that Russian gas is the most important. You guys always say what the Russians say. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u434	Ladies and gentlemen, we're done here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the justification of the project, we can read that cybercrime has increased over recent years, which is reflected in, among others, the scale of cybercrime. by: - increase in the number of incidents related to hate speech and so-called. heyt online (cyberbullying), - increase in the number of frauds committed in cyberspace and events involving malware. At the same time, challenges for cybersecurity related to the progress and universality of information technology access and, together with its dependence on the Internet, lead to the need to improve the quality of security and public order services and their operational capacity in terms of statutory tasks. Meanwhile, e-mails from the ruling camp, such as the Prime Minister, ministers, Members, have been circulating in the media and online for several months. I would like to know what the effects of your actions have been, what has been left for the past few months. We've done what's been done to determine if anyone's been detained. [[Your Marshal...]] [[No, ladies and gentlemen, there's no counterclaim because it wasn't a formal motion.]] [[We are returning to the review of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government bill amending the Social Assistance Act.]] [[The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1672.]] [[We'll proceed with the vote.]] [[Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1672, will want to press the button.]] [[There's no vote.]] [[I see he's not here yet. I can see that, ladies and gentlemen.]] [[Who's in favour?]] [[Who's against it?]] [[Who's holding back?]] [[437 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back.]] [[The Sejm passed a law amending the Social Assistance Act.]] [[We are returning to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury.]] [[We proceed to the third reading.]] [[The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1688.]] [[We're voting.]] [[Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1688 will want to raise your hand and press the button.]] [[Who's against it?]] [[Who's holding back?]] [[437 Members voted. 266 - for, 53 - against, with 118 abstentions.]] [[The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury.]] [[We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on compensation for revenues lost by municipalities in 2018 due to the change in the scope of taxation of wind power plants.]] [[We proceed to the third reading.]] [[The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1744.]] [[We're voting.]] [[Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1744, will want to raise your hand and press the button.]] [[Who's against it?]] [[Who's holding back?]] [[436 Members voted. 435 - for, no one was against, no one held back 1.]] [[The Sejm passed a law on compensation for the income lost by the municipalities in 2018 due to the change in the scope of taxation of wind power plants.]] [[We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft resolution on the establishment of 2022 Year of Polish Romanticism.]] [[Let's move on to the vote.]] [[The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1578.]] [[We're voting.]] [[Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1578 would like to raise your hand and press the button.]] [[Who's against it?]] [[Who's holding back?]] [[438 Members voted. 437 - for, 1 - against, no one held back.]] [[The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 as the Year of Romanticism of Poland.]] [[We refer to point 20 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Governmental Draft Law on the ratification of the Treaty on Eurocorpus and the status of its Command concluded between the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on 22 November 2004.]] [[We proceed to the third reading.]] [[The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1706.]] [[We're voting.]] [[Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1706 will want to raise your hand and press the button.]] [[Who's against it?]] [[Who's holding back?]] [[437 Members voted. 432 - for, 5 - against, no one held back.]] [[The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Treaty on Eurocorpus and the status of its Command concluded between the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in Brussels on 22 November 2004.]] [[We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges and on the Senate bill amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges.]] [[The additional committee report shall be in print No 1736-A.]] [[We proceed to the third reading.]] [[I ask Mr Simon Weather to present an additional report to the committee.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u436	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Infrastructure, I present a report on the joint meeting of the High Commissions. On 16 November 2021, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 1736 to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to examine one amendment which was tabled at second reading. The committees, after considering the amendment at the meeting on 17 November, ask the High Sejm to reject the proposed amendment and to approve the entire draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u437	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1736. The committees also present in an additional report an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. Paragraph 7 1 point (1) (a) b second indent of the Act on local taxes and charges. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 155 - for, 281 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print no. 1736, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 427 for, 6 against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on local taxes and charges. We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Public Finance with an urgent government draft law on specific rules for the remuneration of persons carrying out cybersecurity tasks. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1753-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jarosław Gonciusz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u438	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and to the Finance Committee on the urgent government draft law on the special rules for the remuneration of persons carrying out cybersecurity tasks, print No. 1743. The joint committees, after considering the amendments at the meeting today, ask the High Sejm to reject all the amendments and to accept the whole of the draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u439	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1753. In an additional report, the committees present the amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 2 applicants shall propose that paragraph be deleted. 8. Amendments 4, 5 and 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 8. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 4, 5 and 7, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 148 - for, 233 - against, 57 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 11. Amendment 6 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 3. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 201 - for, 230 - against, abstained 5. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 11. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 193 - for, 231 - against, abstained 13. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 27 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[It's not working again.]] Does it work? It's working. [[It works, but with some delay.]] 438 Members voted. 201 - for, against - 232, 5 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law on the special rules for the remuneration of persons performing cybersecurity tasks in print No 1753, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 275 - for, 117 - against, 45 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on special rules for the remuneration of persons carrying out cybersecurity tasks. We are returning to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the urgent government draft law amending the Law on the Protection of the State Border and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1756-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u440	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Additional report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the urgent government draft law amending the Law on the Protection of the State Border and certain other laws. Yesterday's committee dealt with amendments that were received by 14. The committee's recommendation is that the High Sejm reject all 14 amendments and, of course, accept the entire bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u441	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1756. At the same time, the Commission presents minority proposals and amendments on which we will vote first. Minority requests from 1 to 5 and amendments from 1 to 12 have been tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Law on the Protection of the State Border. In the 1st amendment to the inserted article. 12a applicants propose to give a new wording to the paragraph. 1 and 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of minority proposals 1 and 2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 1, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[It's not working.]] Who doesn't it work with? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who doesn't work, put your hands up, please. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Does it work? It works, doesn't it? Good. [[He's late.]] [[Voice from the room: It got scared.]] 437 Members voted. 196 - for, 240 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 1st minority proposal to the added Article. The applicant shall propose an amendment to paragraph 12a. 1. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 196 for, 239 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] What is it, I'm sorry? [[You walk around the entire Seym, and your mask is on your chin.]] Mother, like children in kindergarten. Really, like kids in kindergarten. [[You're like a kindergarten teacher. How are you acting?]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is unbelievable. Let me see your fingers again. Yeah, that one's ugly, that one's screaming. Guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, Grown-up people. You're all grown-up people. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Really, it's something extraordinary. In the second minority proposal, the following Article is added: 12a applicants propose to give a new wording to the paragraph. 2. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask all of you to have your masks properly worn. You're welcome. [[25,000. You're kidding me.]] These behaviors, paying attention really do not suit the Members of the Parliament. [[It's not our fault you're acting like a kindergarten teacher.]] I'd rather be a kindergarten teacher than you, Mr. President. [[Applause]] [[We're not talking about anybody acting like he's a magician, and he's lying to the bone.]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[You're all like a magician, but you're not wiped out.]] Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 199 - for, 230 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 2nd amendment to the inserted article. 12a applicants shall propose the addition of paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 195-- for, 241-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the inserted article. 12a applicants shall propose the addition of paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 198 - for, 235 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the inserted article. 12a applicants shall propose the addition of paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 197 - for, 240 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the inserted article. 12a applicants shall propose the addition of paragraph. 6 and 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 193 - for, 234 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third minority proposal, the following Article is added: 12b. 1 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 199 - for, 233 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th amendment to the inserted article. 12b. 1 applicants propose to add point 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 199 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th minority proposal, the following Article is added: 12b. 1 applicants propose to add points 8 and 9. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 197 - for, 238 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 7th amendment to the inserted article. 12b applicants propose to give a new wording to the paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 5th minority proposal and amendments to the 8th and 11th amendments. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 201 - for, 231 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th minority proposal to the added article. 12b applicants propose to give a new wording to the paragraph. 2. The adoption of this proposal will render amendments 8 and 11 irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 197 for, 236 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 8th amendment to the inserted article. 12b applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph 12. 2. Amendment 11 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 8 and 11 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 196 for, 239 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 9th amendment to the inserted article. 12b applicants propose to add paragraph. 2a-2i. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 10 irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 9, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 201 - for, 234 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the inserted article. 12b applicants propose to add paragraph. 2a-2c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 196 for, 234 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to the inserted article. 18d. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 197 for, 239 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 2 in the draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 13 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 196 for, 238 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 3 in the draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 6th and 7th minority proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 14 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 200 for, 236 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th minority proposal, applicants propose to give a new wording to the Article. 3 in the draft amending act. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 206 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 7th minority proposal to Article. 3 of the draft amending act propose the addition of point 2. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 192 - for, against - 228, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of the State Border and some other laws in print no. 1756, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 245 - for, 167 - against, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the Protection of the State Border and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Law for 2022. The additional committee report shall be printed in 1708-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: Oh, here comes the maglian.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u442	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Law for 2022, print No 1708-A. [[He wants it safe, too.]] 13 amendments were tabled for the draft. Amendments 1 to 4 and 11 received a negative opinion from the committee, the other amendments were accepted. I recommend to the High House that the entire bill be adopted together with the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u443	Thank you. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1708. The Commission is also presenting amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment, applicants propose to delete Article. 14. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 203 - for, 223 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose to delete Article. 15. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen is in favour of the 2nd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 204 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose to delete Article. 34. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 203 - for, 227 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose to delete Article. 35. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 179 - for, against - 230, 26 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 46 applicants shall propose that in paragraph 1. 1 add points 4 and 5, paragraph 1. 9 add points 4 and 5 and add the new wording of paragraph. 11. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 264 - for, against - 55, 118 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 47 applicants propose that the wording of paragraph be reworded. 11. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 314 - for, 8 - against, stopped 116. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 48 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 1 and 4 and to delete paragraphs. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 292 - for, 8 - against, abstained 136. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 51 applicants propose to add paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 230 - for, 13 - against, abstained 192. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose that after Article. 53 add a new article on the possibility of increasing the provision of the educational part of the general subsidy. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 422 - for, 3 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose that after Article. 53 add a new article on the transfer of grants to the Institute of Labour Medicine and Environmental Health in 2022. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 418 - for, 9 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose to delete Article. 61. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Whoever is in favour of the 11th amendment will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 207 - for, against - 222, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment, applicants propose that after Article. 61 add a new article. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 423 for, 4 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment, applicants propose to delete Article. 65. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 287 - for, against - 9, 141 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the Budget Act for 2022, as published in print No 1708, with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 230 for, 205 against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law on specific arrangements for implementing the Budget Law for 2022. We would like to return to the discussion of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and from the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1748-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Dariusz Olszewski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u444	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am delighted to present on behalf of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy an additional report on printing No 1748-A on the Government's draft law supporting the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023, prints No 1727 and 1748. Ladies and gentlemen! During the second reading, 13 amendments to the bill I mentioned were tabled. The joint committees, after considering all the amendments, shall request amendments 1, 2. 3. Six. 7, 8, 11 and 12. Reject, and accept Amendments 4, 5, 9, 10 and 13, bearing in mind that Amendment 9 and Amendment 10 must be voted together, while the adoption of Amendments 9 and 10 will result in the futility of Amendment 11. The Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy request the adoption in full of a government bill supporting the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u445	Thank you very much. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1748. The committees also present amendments on which we will vote first. In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose that the wording of the Article be reworded. 6. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 2nd amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 199 - for, 230 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 2nd amendment, the applicants propose that the wording of the Article be reworded. 6. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 200 for, against - 220, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 7 applicants propose that the wording of paragraph be reworded. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 198 - for, 235 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 7 applicants propose to add paragraph. 7. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 364 - for, 57 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose that after Article. 7 add a new article. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 420 - for, no one was against, 6 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 8 applicants propose to add paragraph. 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 54 for, 274 against, 103 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose that after Article. 28 plus a new article. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of amendments 8 and 12. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 193 - for, 229 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th Amendment, applicants propose that after Article. 29 add a new article. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in an unobjectability of the 12th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 200 - for, 225 - against, abstained 8. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 31 applicants propose that the wording of paragraph be reworded. 1. This amendment is combined with the 10th amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. Their adoption will result in the futility of the 11th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 9 and 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 260 - for, against - 169, 3 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. The 11th amendment has become unobtrusive. In the 12th amendment, applicants propose that after Article. 32 add a new article. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 197 - for, 232 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 33 applicants shall propose that the law enter into force on the day following the date of publication. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 374 - for, against - 52, 6 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in its entirety the bill supporting the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023 in print No. 1748, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 267 for, 160 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm passed a bill supporting the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government draft law amending the Public Health Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1741-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u446	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Health Commission at its meeting on 17 November considered the amendments tabled at the second reading of the Act amending the Public Health Act and certain other laws. 15 amendments were tabled. Following consideration, the Health Committee recommends: 11th and 12th amendment accept, the remaining amendments reject and adopt the whole of the Act. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u447	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1741. The Commission also presents minority proposals, as well as the additional report on amendments, on which we will vote first. In the first amendment and in the same 1st minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose in point 4 in Article. 8k paragraph. 2 add point 2a. This amendment combines the 2nd amendment and the 2nd minority proposal. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1 and 2 and of minority proposals 1 and 2 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 199 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the third amendment and in the same third minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose in point 4 in Article. 8k changes in the paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of these proposals will render the 4th minority proposal and the 4th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment and the 3rd minority proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 199-- for, 235-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose in point 4 in Article. 8k paragraph. 2 (4) add point. i, j and k. The adoption of this minority proposal will result in the nullity of the 4th amendment. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 200 for, uh, 228, six stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose in point 4 in Article. 8k paragraph. 2 give a different wording to point 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 197 - for, against - 226, 6 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th Amendment and in the same 5th Minority Proposal for Article. The applicant shall propose in point 4 in Article. 8n give a different wording to paragraph. 1. The Commission rejects this amendment. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 5th amendment and the 5th minority proposal would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 200 for, 226 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 6th Amendment and in the same 6th Minority Proposal for Article. 1 applicants in point 4 propose to make a different wording of Article. 8o. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th Amendment and the 6th Minority Proposal will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 190-- for, 235-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 7th amendment, Article. The applicant shall propose in point 4 in Article. 8q amendments to paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 191 - for, 232 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 2 applicants propose to add a new point before point 1. This amendment is combined with the 9th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 8 and 9 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 87 for, 227 against, 112 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 10th amendment and in the same 7th minority proposal to Article. 2 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 8. This amendment is combined with 13. amendment and the same 8th minority proposal and 14th amendment and the same 9th minority proposal. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that amendments be rejected. The adoption of these proposals will render amendments 11 and 12 futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 10, 13 and 14 and of minority proposals 7, 8 and 9 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 200 for, uh, 230, six stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 11th amendment to the article. 2 applicants propose an amendment to point 8. This amendment is combined with the 12th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 11 and 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 417 - for, 4 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 15th amendment and in the same 10th minority proposal to Article. 12 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment and the 10th minority proposal will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 201 - for, 234 - against, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposals. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1741, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 272 - for, 128 - against, 38 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Public Health Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1737-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Materna to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u448	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I have the honour to present an additional report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, print Nos 1731 and 1737. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading of the bill, three amendments were tabled by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. At today's meeting, the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation considered amendments and recommended the adoption of three amendments and the adoption of a draft law in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u449	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1737. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 237 - for, 74 - against, holding 120. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. Ninety-one. This amendment is combined with the 3rd amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 274 - for, 45 - against, with 114 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1737, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 418 - for, no one was against, 6 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the governmental draft law on amending the Law on Foreigners and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1740-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u450	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Additional report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government bill amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. The Sejm sent the draft to the committee. Four amendments were tabled in the second reading. The Commission, following its meeting on 17 November, recommends to the High Sejm that the three amendments 1, 2 and 4 be rejected and the third amendment be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u451	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1740. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 106 The Act on Foreigners of the applicant proposes amendments to the added paragraphs. 2a and 2b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 197 for, 229 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 2 and 3 were tabled in Article. 3 draft amending act containing amendments to the Employment Promotion Act and the institutions of the labour market. In the 2nd amendment to the inserted article. The applicant shall propose to add paragraph 88cb. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 199 - for, 229 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 88z. 13 applicants propose the new wording of point 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 415 - for, 7 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. The draft law amending the applicant proposes to delete paragraph 9. 6, 8 and 9. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 201 - for, 229 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1740, along with the amendment adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 428 for, 6 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: the report of the Social Policy Committee and the Family on the Parliamentary draft law on one-off payment for anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1747-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to present an additional report.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u452	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am submitting an additional report to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Parliamentary draft law on one-off provision of money to anti-communist activists and politically repressed persons. Five amendments were tabled yesterday during the second reading. At today's meeting, the Commission has examined these amendments and is asking the High House to reject Amendments 1, 2 and 5 and to accept Amendments 3 and 4 as well as to adopt the entire law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u453	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1747. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment, applicants propose to give the title of the Act a different wording. This amendment is combined with the 5th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 155 - for, 229 - against, withdrawed 48. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 2 (2) 1 draft law. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 194 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 10 draft law. This amendment is combined with the 4th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1747, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 429, no one was against, no one stopped 3. The Sejm passed a one-off monetary provision law for anti-communist opposition activists and politically repressed persons. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1739-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u454	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On November 16th, the second reading of the government draft law on amending the Law on Forests and the Act on Nature Conservation took place. During the second reading, five amendments were tabled to the project, notabene such as the first reading. The Commission has examined these amendments in detail today, 17 November, and recommends that the High House reject all five amendments. They concern, first of all, leaving in the Forests Act art. 14b, which is the source of the European Commission's intervention and, secondly, of recourse to Annex II of the Habitats Directive, which is a surplus regulation which EU law does not require and is therefore unnecessary. Thank you very much. Of course, the committee recommends that the bill be adopted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u455	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1739. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 196 for, 234 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 2 The applicants propose to delete point 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 3rd amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 204 - for, 222 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 2 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 198 - for, 234 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 2 applicants propose to make a different wording of point 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render the 5th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 195 - for, 239 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose in point 2 in Article. 52b add paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 167 - for, 264 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print no. 1739, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 261 - for, 169 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Forest Law and the Nature Conservation Act. We would like to return to the discussion of item 19 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on Parliament's draft resolutions on solidarity on the protection of Polish borders and on the political and humanitarian crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border. Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1774. The amendment tabled was sent to the ladies and gentlemen for printing No 1774. In the amendment, the applicant shall propose in the fourth subparagraph to delete the third sentence. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 178 - for, 240 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1774, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 259, 60 - against, 98 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on solidarity on the protection of Polish borders. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: There is no, there is no feedback.]] [[Voice from the room: Have you made a mistake?]] Formal conclusion, Mr Boris Budka. You're welcome, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u456	Thank you very much, Marshal. Please take a picture of the vote on the amendment that is ahead of us at the moment. There's been an unacceptable situation. The Act concerns the amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Poland, there was a general agreement concerning the authorisation of the Minister of Justice to issue an appropriate regulation. And at second reading, here in the Chamber, the Ministry of Justice declares an amendment that goes absolutely beyond the scope of the Act, because the Minister of Justice is no longer sufficient for the Justice Fund, but adds to the so-called. prison fund over 10% From what it is now. The Act, which was called: the Act on the amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Poland, and this is what you submitted... [[It'll be about prison.]] ...Suddenly it is to be called: the Act on amending the Act on the National Bank of Poland and - attention - the Penal Code implementing it. The Minister of Justice is just cheating on you again, Mr. President. He's taking another money to his pot. He's got the Justice Fund, and now he's gonna be... [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] ...more than 10%. Mr President, well done, Mr President. Mr. President, you've passed... [[But let me finish, you don't know what you're voting on.]] Out of range... Remove the bill, Marshal, and don't vote on it right now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u457	Thank you, sir. Please respond, sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u458	Your Marshal, on the contrary. Absolutely, the law also involves the competence of the Minister of Justice. [[Voice from the room: Where?]] It's your time to work for the prisoners... [[Voice from the hall: But what are you saying?]] ...she fell because you didn't have proper legislation. And we're making this amendment so... [[National Bank of Poland.]] ...work for prisoners will develop and the prisoners will have a raise thanks to the Polish Load. So I would also ask the High House to support me. That's an absolute lie. Thank you very much. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But this has nothing to do with NBP.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u459	Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, First of all... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen, really? But, sir, louder, louder, because you can't hear. [[But give it to me.]] Mr Budka, I am addressing Mr Budka, and I cannot remove this vote in this way. I'm not taking this vote off because I don't have the chance. [[You can.]] [[What the hell is that?]] We return to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on the National Bank of Poland. Let's move on to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1685. The amendments tabled were sent to the ladies and gentlemen for printing No 1685. [[What are you, Kaczynski, making this country a scandal?]] In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 125 § 1 act - Penal Code implementing. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The adoption of these amendments will change the title of the Act. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 227 for, 203 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. [[Voice from the room: Thieves.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1685, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 230, 140 - against, the 63 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the National Bank of Poland and the Act - Penal Code implementing it. We return to the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Office. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 1742, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 118 - for, 305 - against, abstained 10. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred the draft law to the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: Government information on the situation at the Polish-Belarusian border and the actions taken - vote. An objection was raised in the light of the proposal to accept the information submitted. I will put to the vote a request for information. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of taking note of the government's information on the situation at the Polish-Belarusian border and taking action will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 253 - for, 157 - against, abstained 24. The Sejm took note of the information. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 requested to supplement the agenda with a point covering the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the reasons why the European Commission stopped the substantive work on the assessment of the Polish National Plan for Reconstruction and on the substantive reservations about the content of the Polish National Plan for Reconstruction. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We proceed to the vote on the request to supplement the agenda with a point including information from the President of the Council of Ministers regarding the National Plan for Reconstruction. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 203 - for, against - 229, no one held back. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: First reading of the draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on the amendment of the resolution on the establishment of 2022 in the Year of Józef Mackiewicz (print No. 1734). I ask Vice-Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska to present the reasons for the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u460	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In October of this year, the Sejm established the year 2022 as the Year of Józef Mackiewicz. The discussion was consistent and here there was no doubt, but in the draft of this resolution there was an error and the presidial project corrects this error. The word'stulet' is replaced by '120th anniversary'. I ask the Sejm to adopt this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u461	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the first reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. The discussion is closed. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution contained in print no. 1734, presented in full by the Bureau of the Sejm, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 423 - for, 8 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm adopted a resolution on amending the resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by the Year of Józef Mackiewicz. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Health on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws (prints Nos 1726 and 1752). I would like to ask Catherine Chechara to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u462	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Joint Commission: Education, Science and Youth and Health on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws, print No 1726. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Marshal of the Sejm referred on 8 November 2021 the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Health for consideration. The Joint Committees, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 16 November 2021, ask the High Sejm to accept all the amendments of the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u463	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. We will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate's amendments. Amendments 1 to 19. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending law containing amendments to the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. amendment of the paragraph. Article 2 15. Amendment 22 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 22 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 127 for, 300 against, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the second amendment to the article. 53 The Senate proposes among others. add point 3 in paragraph. 6. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 5 - for, 423 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes a change in the mouth. Article 6 93. We will consider this amendment, including amendments from 4 to 12, from 14 to 19, 21, 23 to 26 and 28. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 3 to 12, 14 to 19, 21, 23 to 26 and 28 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. No one was against 431, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 13th Amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to the Article. Paragraph 103c. 7, Art. 344 (4) (d) and Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against the 13th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 1 - for, against - 431, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 20th amendment to the article. 16g Act on Competitions of Doctor and Dentist The Senate proposes to change paragraph. 4. Amendment 29 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 20 and 29 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. Two for, against - 421, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 27th amendment to Article. 28 point 2 of the Act of 16 July 2020 amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist of the Senate proposes that Article. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 27th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Two for, against -431, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production (prints Nos 1719 and 1757). I ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u464	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Commission: Public Finance and Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, print No 1719. Commissions: Public Finance and Agriculture and Rural Development after considering this resolution at the meeting yesterday, i.e. On 16 November, they recommend that both amendments be rejected. Let me just remind you that this law increases the refund of excise duty included in the price of diesel. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u465	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 The Act on the refund of excise duty included in the price of diesel used for agricultural production of the Senate proposes amendments to points 1 and 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 230 - for, 204 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 1 of the Law amending the Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1.10. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 230 for, 203 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate Resolution on the Act Against the Unfair Use of Contractual Advantage in Trade in Agricultural and Food Products (Prints No. 1720 and 1770). I ask Mr Jan Duda to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u466	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act against unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products. After considering the bill adopted by the Sejm, the Senate submitted eight amendments. The joint committees, having read the Senate's amendments, all the Senate's amendments are positive and ask for their adoption by the High House. The committee's report is contained in print No 1770. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u467	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Paragraph 7 5 The Senate proposes to delete the word "annual." Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 6 and 7. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 6 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 1 for, against - 430, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the second amendment to the article. 18 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. No one was against 431, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 24 The Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 1 and 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 426, 6 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 44. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. Six for, against - 429, one abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 3 The Senate proposes amendments to points 1 and 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. No one was against - 436, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 8th amendment to the article. 62 The Senate proposes to amend the date of entry into force of the Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. No one was against 434, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act against unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forestry Lands (Prints 1721 and 1773). I ask Mr Leszek Galemba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u468	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forest Lands, print No 1721. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, after considering this resolution at today's meeting, welcomes the four amendments tabled by the Senate. I move that the Sejm adopt all the amendments together with the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u469	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 4. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending law containing amendments to the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forestry Lands. In the first amendment to Article. 12b The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. Point 1 (2) and paragraph 1. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. No one was against 429, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 12b The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph 12. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. No one was against - 430, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 12b The Senate proposes in paragraph 12. 4 delete the second sentence and add paragraph. 4a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. No one was against - 435, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 29a The Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. No one was against 432, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this end we have concluded the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forestry Lands. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Waste Act and some other laws (Prints Nos 1723 and 1738). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u470	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, on 3 November of this year, sent a resolution of the Senate on the Law amending the Waste Act and certain other laws in print No 1723 to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for consideration. The Commission has examined this resolution, containing one amendment to the Act mentioned, on 15 November this year and recommends that the Senate amendment be adopted by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u471	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the only amendment to the article. 251 of the Law on Waste The Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 1a and 1b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. No one was for, 434 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on Family Care Capital (Prints 1722 and 1746). I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u472	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I submit a report to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Senate's adoption of the Act on Family Care Capital. On 3 November 2021, the Marshal of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family in order to examine 13 Senate amendments. The Commission considered these amendments on 15 November and asked the High House to accept six amendments and to reject seven amendments. The committee's report is in print 1746. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u473	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 4 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 1. Amendments 2, 3, 6, 7 and 8 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, and 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 1 - for, against - 431, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 4th amendment to the article. 12 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 12. 6. Amendment 9 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 4 and 9, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 228 - for, against - 203, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In Amendment 5, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 18. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 231 - for, 204 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 10th Amendment, the Senate proposes deleting the article. 49. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 231 - for, against - 205, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 11, the Senate proposes to add an article. 52a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 230 for, 203 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 12th Amendment, the Senate proposes to delete the article. 55. Amendment 13 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 12 and 13 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 231 - for, 198 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. At this end, we have concluded the Senate resolution on the Family Care Capital Act. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Animals used for Scientific or Educational Purposes (Prints No 1725 and 1750). I would like to ask Mr Aleksandr Anczynski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u474	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Animals used for Scientific or Educational Purposes, print No 1725. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 8 November 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. The Joint Committees, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 8 November 2021, ask the High Sejm to approve amendments 1, 2, 4, 6, 9, 10, 12, 15, 16, 17 and 18 and to reject amendments 3, 5, 7, 8, 11, 13 and 14. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u475	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 through 17. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Law on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes. In the first amendment to Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate proposes to amend point 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 232 - for, 201 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 21a The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 231 - for, 203 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes among others. Amendment to Article 21b. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. No one was in favour, no one was against 434 Members, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 23. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 235 - for, against - 199, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate proposes to amend paragraphs 1 and 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. No one was in favour, no one was against 432 Members, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment to the article. 34 The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph. 2b and 2e. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 234 for, 200 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 5. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. No one was against, there were 430 Members, 6 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 8th amendment to the article. 36 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 2a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. No one was in favour, 436 Members were against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 9th amendment to the article. 38 The Senate proposes to maintain the existing paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 230 for, 204 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 10, the Senate proposes to delete the following article. 38a. Amendment 18 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 10 and 18 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 232 for, 203 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In Amendment 11, the Senate proposes to amend the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Points 11 and 14a and paragraph 1 Point 2 (1) (a) c. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. No one was for, 436 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 12th Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 52. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 231 - for, 203 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 13th amendment to the article. 53 The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against the 13th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. No one was for, no 432 was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 14th amendment to the article. 55 The Senate proposes among others. delete paragraph. 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 14th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 3 - for, against - 433, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 15th amendment to the article. 60a paragraph. 1 The Senate proposes among others. the new wording of point 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 236 - for, 198 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 16th amendment to the article. 66 The Senate proposes among others. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 16th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 236 - for, 199 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 17th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 The Senate proposes among others. add point 13. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 231 for, 203 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws (Prints 1717 and 1751). I would like to ask Mr Patrick Wichr to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u476	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Health a report on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws, print No 1717. Dear Marshal, this resolution has been addressed to the work of the Committee on Health by a decision. The Commission examined its content on 16 November. As a result of its work, the committee invites the High Sejm to accept amendments 1, 3, 6 and 7, and amendments 2, 4 and 5. - He turned it down. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u477	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 19 Act on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans The Senate proposes changes to the added paragraphs. 5a and 5b. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen is against the first amendment, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 3 for, against -422, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. Amendments 2 and 3. The Senate reported it to the article. 4 Act containing amendments to the Act on Medical Activity. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 99c. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 227 - for, against - 204, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 99b. 1 and 2 Senate proposes to add references. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. No one was against - 428, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. Amendments to 4. to 6. The Senate reported it to the article. 6 Act containing amendments to the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In the 4th amendment to the inserted article. The 15ea Senate proposes a change in the paragraph. 1 point (2) (a) b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 233 - for, 197 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the inserted article. 15ea lips. Point 1 (2) of the Senate proposes the addition of new letters. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 430, 1 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment to the inserted article. The 15ea Senate proposes a change in the paragraph. 9. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. No one was against 431, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 7, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. 10 draft amending act. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Two for, against - 428, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Road Traffic Law (prints No. 1718 and 1735). I would like to ask Mr Aleksandr Anczynski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u478	Dear Marshal! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Road Traffic, print No. 1718. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 3 November 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. The Commission, having considered this resolution at its meeting on 16 November 2021, asks the High Sejm to accept all amendments. On the other hand, Amendment 1 should be voted in conjunction with amendments 3 to 5. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u479	Thank you. We will vote in favour of the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes to amend the title of the Act. Amendments 3 to 5 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 3 to 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 1 for, against - 425, 4 abstained. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the second amendment to the article. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 of the Act - The Law on Road Traffic The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 9. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. No one was against - 430, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and the Act on Specific Support Instruments in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus (prints No. 1724 and 1749). I ask Mr Kazimierz Moskal to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u480	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I submit a report to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and the Act on Specific Support Instruments in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, print No 1724. On 3 November 2021, the Marshal of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 15 November 2021, asks the High Sejm to reject the resolution of the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u481	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 1 October 2021 amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law on Specific Support Instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We're voting. Who of the Members is against the Senate resolution rejecting the Act of 1 October 2021 amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law on Specific Support Instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 234 - for, 193 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this end we concluded the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law on Specific Support Instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 1771). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. The discussion is closed. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 1771, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 404 - for, 7 - against, with a hold of 14. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. That's where we've exhausted the agenda. 42nd meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. I'm declaring a two-minute break before the statements. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 38 hrs. 19 min 39]] I'm reopening the session. Please, the first statement will be made by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u482	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of Polish music lovers and all residents of Bydgoszcz, I address the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Culture and National Heritage, patron of art and culture with a heartfelt request to support the construction of the campus of the Academy of Music. Feliks Nowowiejski in Bydgoszcz, an additional amount of PLN 140 million necessary to start and finish this investment, so much needed for Polish operas and philharmonics, as well as for the promotion of Polish music in Europe and on all continents. The construction of the academic campus is a prerequisite for the further professional activity and development of the Music Academy in Bydgoszcz, as well as for the creative exploitation of the potential of teaching staff, in which there are such masters as the president of the jury of the 18th international Chopin Competition, Professor Katarzyna Popowa-Zydroń, member of the jury of the competition of Professor Ewa Pobłock or winner of the 15th Chopin Competition from 2005 Mr. In this year's Chopin competition in a group of 45 best young pianists in the world as much as 7 or 15% , was a student of the Bydgoszcz Academy and a member of professors working in Bydgoszcz. At the university there are music students from all cities of Poland, as well as students from China and South Korea. In November this year. The 40th anniversary of the activity was celebrated by the Faculty of Vocal-Actor Academy of Music, whose graduates are now singing on opera and stage stages around the world. Thanks to the acting and singing graduates and professors of the Academy, the artistic successes are also celebrated by the institutions which are co-led by the Minister of Culture, the Opera Nova and the Pomeranian Philharmonic in Bydgoszcz, as well as orchestras and choirs from other cities of Pomerania and Kujaw. In the state budget for the construction of the music academy campus, 290 million PLN was reserved, but after the opening of tenders it turned out that an amount of 140 million more was needed to carry out the construction. In this situation, only the Prime Minister, as Minister of Culture and National Heritage, can increase the budget for the construction of the music academy campus. Once again, on behalf of the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz and the region of Kujaw and Pomerania, I am giving this appeal to the Deputy Prime Minister, hoping to take action on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u483	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u484	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Because none of that we have Poland on the first - this neat poem, whose authorship is attributed to Józef Piłsudski himself, very well reflects the atmosphere of that November day more than 100 years ago. Light words, but no one knew better than the then head of the Polish state, how much it cost him and several previous generations of Poles to recover this Poland. However, without entering into the meander of the then international politics and the true mastery of the diplomatic game of such Polish statesmen as the mentioned Józef Piłsudski or Roman Dmowski, it is worth mentioning how the end of this conflict, called the Great War, looked like in my hometown. Piotrków Trybunalski was one of the most important centres of independence in Poland. The city which was then under the Austro-Hungarian occupation became important because the occupation authorities allowed the official activity of Polish patriotic organizations. Here there were recruitment points of Polish Legions creating seeds of later Polish Armed Forces, here also there were scouts who recruited many soldiers among their ranks. A unit was formed that was incorporated into the Third Legion Brigade. The city was also a powerful publishing centre in which thousands of patriotic publications were printed, but also scientific literature, even in the field of Polish history. On the streets of Piotrków Trybunalski you could meet Władysław Sikorski, Juliusz Kaden-Bandrowski, Józef Beck and many others. In addition to official activity, it was realized that one day we would have to fight back. The conspiracy of the Polish Military Organization, the Falcon and many others was active. It was considered necessary to take the initiative, because the Polish central states that occupied the land did not fare very well, in colloquially speaking. In Germany and in the area of the monarchy c.k. There was an uproar that turned into a revolution. The occupiers were weak. The atmosphere was favorable, all the more so that the rumors about mass disarmament of Austrians in Krakow reached Piotrków. In Piotrków Trybunalski the first branch, which took an oath on the loyalty of Poland, formed Major Brezany, who is probably one of the officers of the recruitment organs. There were some serious occupation forces stationed in the city. Still, it was decided to start the action. It started on November 2nd with a general strike. Political prisoners were released from custody and many policemen and policemen were disarmed. Military barracks were surrounded, and after the negotiations, they were able to negotiate the deposit of arms. The soldiers, Poles, mostly took an oath to the Regency Council. The Austrians were ordered to leave the city within four days. Major Brezana issued an order on November 5 to remain calm during the withdrawal of the Austrian troops. When the Regency Council handed over power to Józef Piłsudski on 11 November 1918, Piotrków was ready. There's no big story without small events. The takeover of power in my city took place without spectacular battles, but maybe that's a good thing. We were one of the little cogs in the great machine of history, when finally after 123 years it was possible to put the inscription: independent Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u485	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u486	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Over the past few weeks we have witnessed how Members of PiS, ministers and even the Prime Minister himself drove around the country and distributed money, or rather boxes with numbers, because so far, so much is worth Morawiecki's cheques transferred within the framework of strategic investments of the Polish Order. The money that was to be sent to Poland from the European Union, did not come and may not even go to Poland. The government and its anti-EU policy are guilty. We all suffer. Prime Minister, the district of Elbląski is waiting for more than PLN 50 million, Bartoszycki - for PLN 62.4 million, Bravski - for PLN 30.8 million, Dziadowski - for PLN 51.4 million, Iławski - for PLN 54.7 million, Nowomiejski - for PLN 42.1 million, Ostródzki - for PLN 62.4 million. Self-governments have worked hard for this money and are still waiting for it. I call on you to respect European law so that you do not go to war with the local community that we ourselves create. It's time for you to come to your senses.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u487	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u488	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! I would like to express my firm opposition to the planned liquidation of the Beskid Chamber of Crafts and Entrepreneurship in Bielsko-Biała as an independent entity. The liquidation of the Bielsko-Bialska Chamber provides for a draft law on crafts of 16 September 2021, which was prepared by the Polish Crafts Association. This project assumes that the Chamber will be subordinate to the Chamber of Commerce and Small and Medium Entrepreneurship in Katowice. The clear result of this decision will be that the White and White House will be deprived of independence in decision-making. Meanwhile, it is this chamber that has been operating for many, many years, for decades, best knows the needs of local entrepreneurship and best represents the interests of local entrepreneurship both in the external environment and in Podbeskidzie. It represents entrepreneurs in contacts with local government. An important aspect is also the fact that the Chamber is in very good financial condition and has significant assets. And this property, which was worked out by the Chamber, by the Bielski entrepreneurs, will be transferred to the headquarters in Katowice. Such action is absolutely unacceptable and detrimental to both local entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship in general. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to preserve the current status of the Beskidzki Chamber of Crafts and Entrepreneurship in Bielsko-Biała as an important entity for the southern subregion of the Silesian Voivodeship and this historical part of Małopolska, today I am asking the Minister not to allow the liquidation of the independence of the Chamber in Bielsko Biała. I also submit to the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs an interpellation on this matter, hoping that these bad changes, bad decisions will be stopped and the government will not contribute to this important body of entrepreneurs, this important representation of entrepreneurs will be eliminated, because it serves our entrepreneurs and our region well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u489	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Sławomir Skwarek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u490	Dear Marshal! High Seym! On 4 October a very important event took place for the Polish Army, military universities, but also the community of the city of Dęblin. Stationed in Dęblin Aviation Military Academy received a new banner. The ceremony took place in the square in front of the Heroes' Monument to Dęblin School of Orląt. During the solemn assembly, a ceremony took place to read the act of funding the banner by the representative of the social funder committee, Mayor of Dęblin, Mrs Beata Siedlecka. She also served as an honorable godmother. The banner was handed over to the Rector-Commander General Christopher Cur. As the Chief Rector said: The Dęblin School of Orląt is a university that educates candidates for professional soldiers in the Armed Forces and students of civil studies in a difficult but satisfying field - aviation. Currently, the university conducts stationary and permanent studies, postgraduate studies, vocational training courses and qualification courses for the next military degree. New goals and challenges were set before the university in connection with the modernization of the army. I encourage you to familiarize yourself with the extensive offer of the Military Academy of Aviation. It is not easy to find a university with similar opportunities - not only in Poland but also in Europe. Orląt School is a place that allows people from military and civil background to realize their dreams, who have shared common interests and passion for aviation for many years. In view of the above, a bit of history. 14 April 1927 Officers' Aviation School was transferred from Grudziądz to Dęblin. As a result of the planned many years of expansion, the Orląt School became one of the most modern aviation schools in the world. The list of outstanding graduates includes among others. Zdzisław Krasnodębski, born in Wola Osowińska in the municipality of Borki in Radzyński County, grandson of the January insurgent and exile to Siberia, but also the first commander of 303. Hunter's Division. The pupils were also pilots Valerian Jesionowski, commander 308. Stefan Łaszkiewicz, the first commander of this division, or Stanisław Skalski, as a hunter from the Second World War with the largest number of shootings among Polish pilots. If we want to learn more about the history of Polish aviation, I strongly encourage, especially young people, to visit the Air Force Museum in Dęblin just. The most important exhibition is undoubtedly a relic - the banner of the Polish Air Force in the West from the Second World War. We will also see a reconstructed pilot house from the time of the battle for England, uniform and souvenirs referring to the famous division 303. The outdoor exhibition consists of more than 80 aircraft. In these November days, let us remember the heroic Polish airmen, many of whom gave their lives in defense of their homeland, according to the maxim, also the Air Force Academy, Pro patriotic semper I have a relationship with aviation, too. Since the beginning of this term of office, I have been sitting at number 303. Therefore, I feel obliged to devote more attention to the capital of Polish wings, the city of Dęblin. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u491	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u492	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Lubushus! I continue with you the journey of support for Polish soldiers, Border Guard officers, all other formations that are now defending the border. Let me address the first paragraph to you. Anna Michalska, press secretary of the Border Guard. You're a brave and tough woman and a professional officer. Fingers crossed for you. Anne, persevere, for you are outstanding. We cross our fingers for you here in Parliament, too. Once again we, Lubuszanie, will meet tomorrow as part of the action of the "Murem behind the Polish uniform" this time in Międzyrzecz near the interreligious museum in the vicinity of the monument of Brig-Gen Józef Dowbor-Muśnicki, the great commander of the Greater Poland Uprising. I invite Lubuszan to the hour. 14 to send our thanks to all those who are now defending our borders together in a spontaneous heart response. We address our thoughts to soldiers 17. The Wielkopolska Mechanized Brigade, also paying tribute to Krystian, trusting that any similar tragedies will be avoided. Dear people of Międzeń, come. Take with you the white and red flags, be ready with the community of those who gather there to sing a cappella national anthem, and then Rota. Let this spontaneous meeting be similar to those that have already taken place, e.g. in the square of Gen. Maczek in Żagań and in the former square 11. The regiment in Krosno Odrzański. Returning to these two places, I thank the local authorities who, regardless of political pedigrees, accompanied us in these rallies, and thank you for their logistical help in organizing them. I would like to thank the Mayor of Żagana, Andrzej Katarzyńc, the communes of the rural Żagań - Leszek Ochrymczuk, the communes of Dzienniki - Lech Miszewski, the regional and municipal councillor of the Żagański district, Żarski, the inhabitants of these villages, the singers' bands Thank you to Mayor Krosna Odrzański, Mark Cebula, the old age of Krosno, Grzegorz Garczyński, the councillor from this area, Wojciech Brudziński, the residents of Krosno Odrzański and the surroundings. Thank you, Mrs. Agnieszka Olender, director of the museum in Międzyrzecki, Mr. Andrzej Kirmiel, social workers associated with the local fishing group Obra - Warta, foresters, residents in general, those who will want tomorrow and earlier in these cities: Zagań, Krosno, give their time and their heart together to those who defend our homeland today. I also thank those who on numerous web portals, virtual communicators will multiply our gesture of solidarity and support addressed to soldiers 17. The Wielkopolska Mechanized Brigade and all other units, and formations, and services that are now defending the border. Make sure they come back safe and sound. May their providence guard them, and let them guard us. Let's get behind the Polish uniform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u493	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u494	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From this point of view, I would like to thank the organisers and, above all, the participants of this year's Independence March. Giving this state event was a very good move, for which I also thank you. The intention of all participants was not only to remember Poland's struggle for independence, but above all it was concern and respect for the Polish uniform. This intention allowed officers of the Border Guard, police officers, professional soldiers and the Territorial Defence Forces to pay tribute to the security of Poland and the European Union at the eastern border. You're our heroes. Support for the Polish uniform is important, especially today, when the security of the Polish border is brutally violated. Polish services were forced to use water cannons, and one of the police officers was seriously injured. There is no doubt in the international opinion that this is a political crisis aimed at destabilising the European Union. The Lukashenka regime organizes international trafficking in human beings. Everyone in Europe already understood this except the total opposition of the Polish government. Fortunately, as long as the Law and Justice rule, there is no question of any migration route leading through Poland to Western Europe. We will strengthen the border, build a wall and constantly react. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u495	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Głogowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u496	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Last week there was an extraordinary meeting of the government, the only item of which was the Prime Minister's information about the situation at the eastern border. Only during this information, neither during the Prime Minister's speech nor during the ministers' speeches, we heard nothing concrete, nothing that we would no longer know from television about what happened, and absolutely nothing about what could happen. I caught one interesting thing the Prime Minister said. Perhaps he got away with it in a moment of honesty. To the question repeated several times, why the government is so afraid of allowing journalists to enter the state of emergency zone, he replied that America lost the war in Vietnam because there were journalists in Vietnam. As I understand it, journalists during this Vietnam War did not create fake news, there has not been such a category. They passed on what was happening to American voters, American citizens. So I'm guessing the Prime Minister thinks that journalists would show situations that the voters wouldn't like. The question is, what's going on out there, what the Prime Minister wouldn't want to show. Are these the cases that came out yesterday that when the fire department in Gibach or the school in Dąbrowa Białostocka learn that soldiers at the border for 3 days did not have a warm meal, they organize a collection for these soldiers? I'll admit, when I read it, I thought it was too much for someone who didn't like the government to go too far with such false information. But when I read it on the government's television pages, I thought it was, and what's more, some propagandists probably thought it was necessary to boast about the fact that the residents had to hold collections for soldiers. Congratulations on logistics and management for those who provide backup for soldiers at the border. Today, just now, the Sejm has passed another law that takes away freedom from citizens, a law called a little mistakenly: the defence of the border. She doesn't change anything for refugees, for those who want to break into the border. State services should defend the border regardless of whether there is martial law or exceptional law. The Act only takes away the freedom of citizens. It takes away the fundamental freedoms of Polish citizens, such as the right to move freely on the territory of the country, freedom to conduct business, the right to access information. Contrary to what is said, the migration route through Poland is still active and the border is very steep. If within a dozen days the Polish police stopped more than 140 cars carrying emigrants all over Poland, one can ask which car was stopped. Every second, every fifth or every hundredth? The probability is that a lot of these cars are passing through, only some of them are stopped. If the Germans estimate the number of emigrants they know about who came to the camps, at 8, 9, 10 thousand. - those who have crossed Belarus and from Belarus through Poland to Germany... Minister Kaminski said a few days ago that they were probably in the vast majority of Poland by Lithuania. Maybe part of it, but part of it. The border is still leaky and of course it should be sealed, but it does not change the fact that Polish citizens have the right to reliable information. And it is difficult to understand why it can be assumed that Polish journalists may be a threat to the security of Poland, for the work of Polish services. At the moment, the world opinion only has a message from journalists admitted by Lukashenka to those places where he agreed to let them in. This cannot be verified by journalists on the other hand. And even in the interest of the Polish government, it would be in the interest of inviting Middle Eastern Arab TV to the border as soon as possible, to pass information on to those who still watch this TV on the spot, at home, and maybe wonder whether to go on a journey or not. If they were to report on this television every day that this border is not open, as the smugglers paid by Lukashenka and Putin convince them, perhaps many of them would not travel. The way to fight illegal immigrants is not to take away fundamental civil rights from Polish citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u497	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Stanisław Żuk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u498	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From the moment I became a Member of the Polish Parliament, I have been proud and honest in carrying out my duties, because I know that as a representative of my constituents I have to conduct activities that solve their problems and meet their needs with full commitment. I'm old enough. I know life from the hardest and hardest of its pages. I'm retired after 45 years in the mining industry. I am saying this because if someone thinks that what I am doing as a Member is for a career or for other personal or family purposes, it is in great error. All my life, I've been guided by honesty and engineering solidity. However, what happened to me in the context of TVN24's television report. The system around Turn, is unfair, objective and perverts reality. I can't keep quiet about that. The authors of the report I mentioned in one half-hour broadcast mixed with the socially harmful, unlawful actions of the former local authorities of the municipality of Bogatynia, the case of the landslide which took place in the mine in 2016 and the issue of negotiations with the Czech Republic in the context of the judgment of the TSUE. It's an astonishing mixture of completely separate and nothing in common. During the interview, I was surprised by his formula and attacking me. This was used by a TVN24 journalist who, by manipulating my premeditated statements, showed the Turov mine, me and my son in a negative light. I believe that was the intention of the authors of this report from the beginning. In my opinion, it's a TVN24 campaign for me for my vote in the Sejm. I'm sorry that TVN editors are urged to show things in such an unprofessional and objective way. Why did they not rise to an objective, fair assessment of events? Why was a pseudo-expert chosen to speak on issues related to the landslide in the Turów mine? Why didn't they bother to read the opinion of the Higher Mining Authority, the committee's final protocol in PGE GiEK, and the expertise of independent experts assessing the causes and effects of the landslides in the Turów mine? Why didn't they bother to compare this incident with similar cases in other known opencast mines? Why didn't they bother to say that my son has 27 years of mining experience, has the approval of the District Mining Authority to act as a traffic manager of the mining plant and has the necessary education? He became a member of the Supervisory Board of PGE GiEK, not by nepotism, but by the choice of several thousandths of the company's crew. His misfortune, of course in quotes, is that he has a father who is currently a Member of the Polish Parliament. I am convinced that this is not the last report of the TVN station attacking people who defend the energy independence of Poland. The aim is also to induce social consent to the liquidation of the Polish hard coal and brown coal industry. Negotiations are ongoing with the Czech Republic on the Turov case. The distortion of reality in this report is certainly not going to help us. I draw the attention of all Members in this Chamber to one thing: today's goal is me, tomorrow can be any of you regardless of party membership. I would like to declare that, as a Member of the Polish Parliament, I do not agree with this treatment of this matter and will continue to take action to ensure that changes in the functioning of mining, Polish energy and security ensure our country's energy security and independence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u499	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Aleksander Forczynski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u500	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A nation that does not respect its past does not deserve respect for the present and has no right to the future - it is the words of one of the fathers of Polish independence of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. These words should be a signpost for each Pole. It is our duty to remember the previous generations, the times past, wonderful and dramatic for our homeland. From the great moments of Poland's history we must be proud, with difficult and heavy - we must draw conclusions. The words of the American poet and philosopher George Santayana: who doesn't remember history is doomed to relive it, perfectly match the words of Marshal Piłsudski - the memory of the past is crucial for every man, nation. That is why today, on the 103rd anniversary of regaining independence by our beloved homeland, we must remember all those who fought for it, for independence, defended it, and those who lost their lives in defence of it. We mention the insurgents of Kościuszko insurrection, the insurgents of November, January, Wielkopolska and Silesia. The victim of their blood contributed to regaining independence. We remember the victims who were incarcerated to the possessive army during the Great War, we bow to the defenders of the Second Republic of Poland during the Soviet attack in 1920. We pay tribute to the victims of September 1939, the German and Soviet terrors of World War II. Close to our memory are Scouts of Grey Privates, Partisans of the National Army and National Armed Forces, wonderful young people who gave their lives in the Warsaw Uprising. We remember the tragic fate of soldiers of the 2nd corps of General Władysław Anders, for whom there was no return to Poland after World War II. A model for all should be the soldiers steadfast, cursed by the communist terror brought on the bayonets of the Red Army. Danusia Sidzikówna, rtm. Witold Pilecki, Major Zygmunt Szendzielarz In our memory there are victims of workers' strikes in Poznań, on the Coast, in Radom and in the Uncle's mine. We recall the solidarity and the sacrifices of priests: Blessed. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, Fr. He's dead, Fr. He's a dry-blooded man. These hundreds of thousands of exiles, torturers, prisoners of German concentration camps and Soviet camps, political prisoners of the Polish People's Republic, interned, persecuted at the time so-called. Folk democracy, all of them had one thing in common - love for our homeland, for Poland. Poland is a special mother, it is not easy for her to go on, especially in recent centuries. She's a mother who has suffered a lot and is still suffering again. Therefore, he has the right to love specially - these words of our beloved St. John Paul II perfectly reflects the motives of previous generations of our compatriots. Love for your country, love special, worth every sacrifice, even sacrifice of life. Nothing is eternal or given once and for all - let each of us remember these words in order to keep in mind that every day we must build, strengthen, take care of our common Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u501	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u502	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make you aware of the safety and health of the citizens who have been vaccinated against COVID-19. At present, when they suspect that they may be ill again, they are refused to test them. The so-called correct citizens have been vaccinated, and therefore not only have reduced the risk of major complications during the disease, but also reduce the costs associated with treatment borne by the state. What do they have to do with it? They're soldiers for a job that doesn't have to be tested because it's a waste of money because they're overstating infected people because the real results are going to show our country's inability to fight COVID-19? It also raises the question of whether a thorough check of the health status by taking a COVID-19 test to a person who has been vaccinated is a privilege, or rather of negligence. Does anybody in the government have control of this situation? Let me remind you that people who are still vaccinated can get sick and infect others. What is happening today has nothing to do with controlling the situation, and is even forging it. That's why I can't walk past it indifferently. Therefore, I also appeal from this point of view to give Poles thoughtful security during the pandemic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u503	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u504	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! November 14th is the World Senior Day, an opportunity to wish and thank for the activities of seniors, but also to talk about their role and their presence in the various spheres of our social life. Aging is a natural process, and sooner or later each of us will experience this stage of life. It is therefore extremely important that all actions, initiatives of local or national scale draw the attention of society to the problems faced by senior citizens. These are not only health or economic problems, but above all loneliness and isolation, which have increased dramatically due to the pandemic. Let us remember that, despite age, older people continue to be a very active part of society in various respects, thanks to which the activities of non-governmental organisations are developing rapidly, e.g. spreading knowledge, religious or promoting specific interests. Seniors are very happy to take part in volunteer work and cooperate with local government. It should be noted that the so-called. informal activity in favour of the family brings long-term and large-scale benefits. In their role as grandparents, they often provide care for their grandchildren and impart the knowledge they need to discover the world. This is an extremely important fact because it shows how important generational integration is for the functioning of seniors. By involving older people in various kinds of actions and projects, we show them that they are still important to us, and their actions are often necessary. Each of us has in our immediate surroundings elderly people who require special care and special interest from both the family and society. We owe it to them as an expression of our gratitude for both the gift of life, education, formation of a system of values, and the transfer of faith, respect for principles, culture and traditions. Let this day dedicated to senior citizens around the world also stimulate us, parliamentarians, and society as a whole to reflect on what system solutions we can still put in place to make it easier for older people to function in today's reality. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u505	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u506	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, we were celebrating the National Independence Day. On this occasion, I would like to raise the problem of patriotic education. During World War II, the Grey Troops were running a program today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, which can serve as a model for modern thinking about patriotism. The programme focused on three elements: primarily the fight against the occupier, the preparation of the uprising and education of the future elite, which will function in liberated Poland, as well as the care of excluded persons and protection against demoralization. It is worth highlighting the last elements - education and protection. A similar program was conducted during the partitions by numerous groups, among others. Lviv claudians. We have a free country now. It is our duty to care for the future, as well as our duty to honor and praise our heroes. Yes, they are at the source of our love for our homeland, we owe them freedom, but at the same time we have a moral duty to realize their dreams, so to think about a functioning, honest, free, safe country, about its development and also about the future. In particular, it is about all methods of education inspiring to their own searches, competitions, social actions, activities of cultural houses or even NGOs-s. I would also like to thank all the socialists who are often underappreciated about their actions and who play a huge role in shaping the young generation, shaping its patriotic attitudes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u507	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u508	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, during the 42nd meeting of the Polish Sejm at the point: Current information we discussed about the poverty of society as a result of the surge in prices and the lack of balanced income growth, in particular those employed in the budgetary zone. From this point of view, I again call on the government to reduce taxes, in particular excise duties and VAT. The wages of Poles and Poles do not increase as fast as prices for petrol, LPG, electricity or gas (coal).
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u509	November 11 is the most important holiday for every Pole. 103 years ago, the Republic regained its independence. The uniform of the Polish soldier was and is inextricably connected with this holiday. Especially now, in view of the situation on the eastern border of our country, we must express our support to Polish soldiers. Anniversary celebrations were held throughout the country, and Polish Army participated in many places. Too bad it's not everywhere. In Ciechanów, stationed military units, the Ciechanov barracks permanently entered the city's landscape. There were different fates, different decisions of the authorities. For a few years the army left the barracks, were trying to sell, liquidate the historic object and change its original destiny. However, it worked, the Polish Army returned to our city. 5. Mazovian Territorial Defence Brigade. d.o.b. Mieczysława Dziemiewicza ps. The swarm is permanently settled in historical barracks. November 11th on the celebration of regaining independence 5. The Mazowiecka Brigade was one of over 100 military units, which took part in the action of the Ministry of National Defence, Respect for the uniform. The barracks were opened to civilians, and on time at hours. Twelve soldiers and civilian guests sang together "Mazurek Dąbrowskie" (Mazurek Dąbrowskie). Together with the Association of Footballers of the Republic of Poland, the Ciechanów Branch took part in these celebrations. Previously we planned celebrations with the participation of the Polish Army and residents under the monument of the Polish Military Organisation in Ciechanów. Unfortunately, the city authorities made it impossible for us to hold a patriotic-religious ceremony. Urban anniversary celebrations related to September 1st, September 17th, the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising, etc. This year, as in the previous few years, were held without the participation of the Ciechanow soldiers, and it is worth adding that in Ciechanów there are almost 1 000 stationed. soldiers. I am grateful to command that on this important day of the gate the barracks opened 5. MBOT. We were able to celebrate independence together and with dignity. The Polish Army in Ciechanów, as well as in many places of the country, received the signal and declaration of the compatriots: a wall behind the Polish uniform.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u510	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The so-called Polish Load will not only not improve the situation of pensioners in our country, but will even make it worse, especially those who have health problems, as well as those who have worked in difficult conditions for years. The general principle was to be that the higher the benefit, the more senior will gain, but it turns out that is not entirely true. Retirement workers who receive higher benefits will lose their rights. Lower pensions can be expected by those who receive PLN 4100 and PLN 4200 per month. Many of them are mining pensioners, but also people from other heavy industry sectors, e.g. steelworks, working their entire lives in very difficult conditions, as well as those working above retirement age, earning on employment contracts or doing business. A higher tax-free amount will also not help people who benefit from a rehabilitation allowance or pay back their medical expenses. The elimination of the possibility of writing off a health contribution on tax means that, despite the increase in the amount of free pensioners will unfortunately receive lower benefits and instead of gaining, they will lose their hard-earned money. I am a Member from Silesia, and therefore I receive many questions about the situation which is to hit mining pensioners, and is initiated by the government headed by the President of the Council of Ministers elected in Katowice. The interested parties draw attention to the previous statements of the Prime Minister, who declared that no one will lose on the Polish Lad if his salary does not exceed 12 thousand. zł. On the one hand, the government conducts a distribution policy, gives another 13th and 14th pensions, 12,000. zł per child, on the other hand, again silently takes away the group, which should be protected, i.e. seniors. You are trying to repair the economy of New Deals, unfortunately it is not always possible to take from citizens without restrictions unless public spending is reduced first.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u511	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On November 25th, as every year, we celebrate the Day of the Railwayman. It is a festival of railwaymen and railway workers, which dates back to the 19th century. In Poland, his history begins in the Second Polish Republic, when it was not yet a national holiday. In 1981, the members of the NSZZ.Solidarity recognized St. Katarzyna Aleksandryjska for the patron saint of Polish railwaymen. This holiday, as well as the date, is an important signal to draw the public's attention to the important role of rail transport in Poland and Europe. Today rail transport is one of the most environmentally and socially beneficial means of transport. Many countries have been promoting this trend for years and are primarily focusing on the development of this transport network. In addition, it should be noted that rail in the current transport system complements road transport and is significantly more efficient thanks to its capabilities. Our infrastructure and rolling stock, although constantly developing, need investment. In addition, attention should be paid to the network of connections so that railway lines complement and provide a very attractive alternative to e.g. transport by car. At this point we should notice the efforts of thousands of Polish railwaymen and railway workers who perform their duties daily, often many kilometers away from home and family. Therefore, on my behalf, I would like to thank all those working on the railroad, as well as those involved in rail transport, and to express my sincere appreciation and to thank you for your daily contribution and effort.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u512	Declaration on Tolerance Day. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On November 16th, we celebrate the Day of Tolerance. Today, when we are still experiencing racist, homophobic and xenophobic behavior within our country, we should remind even louder that diversity is a value that without respect for another human being we will not build a healthy society that multiculturalism is a value that over time history has enriched us and we should not be afraid of. We often fear what is unknown to us. It is only knowledge that can dispel our fears and fears. Paradoxically today, as never before, we have access to distant corners of the world, to previously unknown cultures, and we are eager to enjoy all the privileges of traveling, and yet within our country we are seeing an increasing fear of others. If we want to develop ourselves and our own society, let us not be afraid to open ourselves to another human being. I would like to see the time come at last when not only tolerance, which is the first step, but also acceptance of everyone will become a natural thing for us when we can draw on diversity and build a better tomorrow on it together.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u513	On 29 October 2021, in vote No 16, I had mistakenly voted against, while my intention was to vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u514	I hereby declare that at the 42nd meeting of the Polish Parliament, during the voting block, at the vote in No. 37, held on 17 November 2021, around 3 p.m. 18.10, I mistakenly voted against, while in fact my intention was to vote against. My mistake did not affect the overall outcome of the vote, and therefore I did not request immediate feedback. However, the gravity and scale of the violations of the law contained in the draft law, including in particular the violation of the principles and civil liberties contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, motivates me to express my opposition clearly to the solutions contained in the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-17-sejm-42-2.u515	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 42nd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 43rd session of the Sejm, convened on 1 and 2 December 2021, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 20 min 24]]
