ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u1	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that the following committees will be held today: - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 14.10. - Health-- hour. 16, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 4:30 p.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 17, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 17, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 18, - to Energy, Climate and State Assets together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs - at 3 p.m. 6:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u2	Thank you. The Group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Beings and some other laws, print No 1818. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law on cover allowance, print No 1820. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the draft resolution on commemorating the victims of the pacification of the strike in the Mine, and the other victims of the martial law on the 40th anniversary of its introduction and on the draft resolution on the painful anniversary of the introduction of the martial law, print No 1810. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in the discussion on this item, he listened to four-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We have formal requests. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Coalition, made a formal request. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am filing a formal request for a break for Prime Minister Morawiecki so that he can appear before the House and explain why he still accepts Mr Łukasz Meiza in the government. [[Applause]] Prime Minister Morawiecki should break away for a moment from the trade in parcels, from pushing people into companies of the Treasury and courageously reply to Poles, why he accepts in the policy of a man who is so disgustingly accused. [[Applause]] We all know very well that Mr Mejza is really the political child of President Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Voice from the room: Kaczyński will also answer.]] [[Voice from the room: Grodzki.]] [[Voice from the room: What child?]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Mr... I ask on behalf of Poles: Mr President, why do you accept this situation? You have led the parliamentary majority to such a dramatic situation that the government majority hangs on Mr Meiza, after all, he says it openly and openly. It's your responsibility... [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u4	Thank you, sir. As a request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Who doesn't work, please raise your hand and approach. And you, Mr Kulesza, do not work because you have been excluded from the Sejm meeting. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] This is not a new session of the Sejm, sir, but a recess. [[Applause]] We will continue the same session of the Sejm, so you will not be able to vote. Again, who's behind the break? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. 186 - for, 209 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. The formal application was made by Marshal Vladimir Czarzasty. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u5	Mrs. Marshal! I request a formal request to postpone the proceedings until a mandatory vaccination project has been placed on the agenda. [[Applause]] Mrs. Marshal! I'm talking to you as a member of the Sejm Bureau. You have asked all political forces to work together to work out ways to fight COVID. We had one meeting about it. We, the Left, declare the bill. We are convinced that the implementation of this law will help Poles. We know that people who are vaccinated, less sick, less sick, less dying. [[But you didn't get sick...]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a political matter. This is your business, yours, yours, this is the case of all Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why I'm filing this motion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u6	Thank you very much, Marshal. First of all, you know that every bill must have a reputation for BL and BAS. These opinions don't exist. As this is the same meeting of the Sejm, this is not included on the agenda. You've asked me to adjourn. [[It's the opposite voice.]] Then it's the opposite vote. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, my...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u7	I would point out that old people are more sick than young people. [[And you're sick too, right?]] And that's no reason to segregate them in any way or stalk them legally. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] [[Genius.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u8	Thank you. As a formal request has been made for the adjournment of the sitting, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. 180 - for, 221 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal from Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u9	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Niedzielski, your Minister of Health 2 weeks ago said in one of the interviews that we already know that the restriction doesn't work, that this whole lockdown madness doesn't stop the pandemic. We agree, of course. But yesterday you heard from the Minister, and we heard that despite the assurances made by the ministers, you are shutting down schools. Since December 20th, not today, but December 20th. You're shutting down school for two weeks. Only in the light of experience, we know perfectly well that these two weeks may already be the end of the year. I'm afraid you've been closing the party since 15. But for New Year's Eve, you're taking the day off. So it's completely artificial. You ban nacho food at the movies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the point that's been fighting with the fact that you've recently banned entry into the woods. We demand that Minister Niedzielski appear here and present the scientific basis why such absurd sharpenings are being introduced. Request for closure of these deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u10	Thank you, sir. Minister Czarnek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! [[The motion to close the session was, Mrs...]] Wait a minute, sir, and correct it. Nobody closes school for two weeks. Please remember that from December 23rd to January 2nd, the children are free by law, there is a holiday break. [[Applause]] [[I know.]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] So it's not for two weeks, it's for six days. Don't mislead the public. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u12	Thank you. As a motion to close the session has been tabled, I will put this request to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of closing the session, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. 35 for, 348 against, 19 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Four months ago, you announced a liquidation, i.e. You have announced a bill that will end the Disciplinar Chamber. That was four months ago. This Disciplinary Chamber costs us a million euros a day and costs us billions of KPOs that we don't get. [[Voice from the hall: And Madonna's concert cost what?]] [[Voice from the room: By you.]] I request that Prime Minister Kaczyński or Mr Mateusz Morawiecki present us with information about when the government will file a bill on the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber. [[The voice from the hall:...he met the rules of the Sejm.]] The Polish government has become a government of impositability. And you, Prime Minister Kaczynski, have become the king of imposity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u14	Madame, as stupid as you say, I really... Since this was not a formal motion, I will not put it to the vote. Mr Janusz Kowalski. You're welcome. [[What are you so full of?]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the hall: They're coming for you, Ziobro.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I keep the mining bard that I received from brave unionists OPZZ from Bełchatów, who defend Polish coal. [[Voice from the room: This is a weapon.]] Such a mining barda will never be received by Donald Tusk, who is a Polish electrician. [[Voice from the room: Did you ask for an autograph?]] And Donald Tusk is the head of the European People's Party today responsible for the enormous increases in energy and heat prices. [[Voice from the room: And Kaczyński is happy.]] Today, Law and Justice are starting to fight to lower energy and heat prices in Europe and for millions of Poles. It's because of the decision of the PO-PSL government... [[Why don't you speak Silesia?]] ...by 1300% since 2014 the prices of CO2 have increased. We will counter this at the next European Council. [[Silesian language.]] Donald Tusk will never receive such a gift from miners. Thank you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u16	Mr President, of course this was not a formal proposal. You're abusing it. Be careful with that. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in People and some other laws (Print No 1818). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to present the justification for the bill. I ask you, that we be able to proceed efficiently, I would very much like to ask those Members who are going to the committee meeting and will not attend the plenary session to leave the sitting room so that the Member can present a draft law calmly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u17	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! On behalf of the group... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Ladies and gentlemen! Those who will not listen to the speeches at this point, I would very much ask that they leave the room and allow the Member to speak so that we can hear the speech of the Member. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Group of Members, I have the honour to present to the High House a law amending the Act on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in People and some other laws, the Seym printing No 1818. I would like to begin by thanking Marshal Witek very much for organising a meeting on issues related to COVID-19. At a meeting attended by representatives of all parliamentary factions, and in the second part of the meeting I had the honour to attend, several proposals were proposed and some conclusions were presented. In the beginning, among others. the question of the compensation fund has been raised. Ladies and gentlemen! It can be said that, in principle, the discussion on this subject was short and everyone was absolutely agreeable that such a fund should be and should be operational. At this point, I would like to thank your marshal once again, and at the same time I would like to thank all the participants in this meeting who have declared in an absolutely clear way their willingness to set up such a fund. The result of this meeting was - and this was the declaration by Minister Kraski - the presentation, preparation for Monday after this Friday meeting of the relevant document. This document is, of course, a derivative of Print Act No 1449, which was prepared by the government and presented for the procedure in the Sejm, except that from this law, which had its controversial elements or so they were interpreted and evaluated by many persons, only the part concerning the compensation fund itself was selected. Then, in order to explain the composition of those who signed up for this project, I would like to thank very warmly the representatives of my club, the United Right, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, for signing this law, but also the representatives of two circles, parliamentary and parliamentary, i.e. Jarosław Gowin's Agreement and the Polish Case Circles, who also signed the project. Unfortunately, despite these declarations that were made at the meeting with the marshal or the marshal you organised, other wheels or parliamentary clubs did not sign up under this document. Nevertheless, I have heard assurances about kindness, about favor, about the fact that nothing has changed as regards the support of this idea in relation to the meeting which was organized by your marshal. Therefore, I would like to warmly appeal for substance and, as at this meeting, beyond the political divisions of the discussion around this document, which Poles are waiting for and who, hopefully, will be another element, if only a small element, which causes the number of people who are afraid of vaccination, whether vaccination against COVID-19, or any other vaccination which is compulsory vaccination. This project provides for specific compensations, a compensation system for unwanted vaccination reactions. This interval is quite wide, ranging from even minor post-vaccination reactions, most commonly allergic reactions, which do not require hospitalisation, to the most serious reactions requiring long-term hospitalisation of more than 120 days. In the latter case, the maximum amount provided for is 100,000. zł compensation. I'm going to say that this project doesn't include those cases where death would occur. The applicants considered that, in such cases, there should be a court of law because the inclusion of any amount in the law could be considered controversial as it is difficult to find an adequate amount of money in relation to the situation in which the person who was vaccinated would die. Therefore, we considered that in such cases, fortunately ultra-rare - let's add that undesirable vaccination reactions at all are very rare events - in cases of these most tragic events we should use the judicial path. How will these adverse vaccination reactions be verified? A team will be set up with the spokesperson for the rights of the patient, where this verification will be carried out, a team of experts, a team of doctors of selected medical specialists who will be able to assess this situation in a professional manner. For this reason, the fact that such a team will operate is already foreseen by the regulation of the ombudsman's patient rights proper congratulations, but we are talking about a symbolic salary here. In order to be able to claim this compensation, it will be necessary to pay a small amount, because 200 zloty, which, in the event of a finding and confirmation of an undesirable vaccination reaction, will be given to the applicant, of course, along with the compensation. It is also worth adding that this compensation will not be subject to tax. It must also be said where these funds are due for these compensation and compensation funds. In addition to the initial period when it will be a grant, which, of course, comes out of the state budget through the ombudsman's budget of PLN 10 million, will be created and implemented after 1 January 2023, a copy from vaccine producers of 1,5%. This solution seems right and logical. Let us remember that we are dealing with the characteristics of the medicinal product. There, too, are described as occurring - once again I will emphasize it - very rarely, but still occurring vaccination reactions. Of course, the consequences of such events must, however, be certain responsibility for the producers of these vaccines. The treatment of a person who goes to hospital for treatment is financed by the National Health Fund. There is no question of financing this treatment by one or another producer. However, such participation or participation should be taken into account in the compensation process. It is also nothing new, because different solutions, including similar ones, related to this copy, are used in other countries around the world. Ladies and gentlemen! In order not to extend, because I hope that, after this point has been completed, we will continue to work efficiently on this project in the Health Committee so that we can have a second reading on tomorrow and then a third reading and adopt this solution, which, at least on the basis of the assumptions, there were no comments, no reservations, I will conclude by asking once again to proceed with this law not only in substance, but also in a similar spirit as at the meeting organised by the Marshal. I am aware of certain imperfections which are, of course, in this document, and I immediately point out that I am open to discussing specific entries. I wish you all good, much health and let us remember that in our hands, also through such relatively narrow projects, there is a shared responsibility for the health and life of citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We were ready to proceed in July, and it's December.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u18	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bolesław Piech, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in People and some other laws. The State received this project in the Seym printing no. 1818. What is this bill about? This project relates primarily to undesirable post-vaccination reactions. Some people say it's an adverse reaction to the vaccine. He settles in two parts, two conditions must be met. One is that an adverse reaction occurred or an unwanted vaccine reaction occurred up to 3 years after vaccination with a vaccine or vaccine. I'll explain why later. These are the effects listed in the summary of product characteristics. This is in line with the Pharmaceutical Law. It's mostly about hospital stays no shorter than 14 days. The second is when an allergic reaction or even an anaphylactic shock occurred, but this resulted in a stay in the emergency room or hospital emergency department for up to 14 days. How much is this benefit? Because we support this solution. This is written down depending on the severity of this unwanted vaccine reaction, depending on the course of this phenomenon, how many days of hospitalization it requires. It's $3,000. - in the event of a short stay in the SOR or the emergency room without hospitalisation; later, it depends on the severity of the course, which is most often associated with the length of stay in hospital departments - up to 100,000 if this stay was longer than 120 days. Here's the question of whether it could be elevated somehow. Yes, this may be increased if an operation was required as a result of this adverse vaccine reaction. Here, too, the legislator has provided for appropriate amounts, the total compensation should not and will not exceed 100,000. zł. This does not, of course, close the course of civil proceedings in any case. If someone feels unsatisfied, they can act in normal civil proceedings. This is the proposal that the applicant spoke about. We were unable to determine the amount that should be paid in the event of death. These are individual cases and should be determined by the court. I think these amounts would be difficult to determine. In general, it would probably be very difficult to meet certain claims by law, but also the consequences of those claims if the person died from an adverse vaccination reaction. Does the funds from this fund benefit hospitalised persons due to COVID-19? No, it's not a matter of getting sick, it's a question of vaccination. The compensation fund will be a special-purpose fund created to pay benefits. It is about the state budget, about certain adjustments, but also about pharmaceutical companies and wholesalers, which will in future supply vaccines. It will, of course, include compensation for unwanted vaccination reactions paid to those vaccinated animals, for which this was due to compulsory vaccination. But it's also about the vaccination schedule, in this case COVID. Who's gonna admit it, and who's gonna run this fund? This unit will be subject to a patient's rights spokesperson. The Ombudsman will also appoint a team of experts. These experts must be doctors, because it's very sensitive data, such as medical records. There will be six of them, and the relevant candidates will be able to identify the Minister of Health, the State Health Inspector, the Chief Medical Council, but also specialised medical scientific societies. The term of office of this team will last five years. We have also proposed in this law, on the one hand, provisions on conflicts of interest - the High House knows exactly what conflicts of interest may be concerning the evaluation of vaccines - and on the other hand anti-corruption rules. How do I apply? An application to the ombudsman shall be made in a simple manner either by a person who has had an adverse reaction (the vaccine bell) or by his or her statutory representative. Who's gonna make the decision? Patient rights spokesperson. This decision is irrevocable - simply the benefit will be paid and may be increased. One more minute. The draft law is not contrary to European Union law and is not notified. A similar solution exists in Finland. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that this law be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u20	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u21	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! And I'm wondering if you still have any impressions of dying people, family pains, people dying alone in hospital COVID units. Or maybe these tragedies really spread to you. So, what did you guys do with your latest research? Is 500 pandemic victims much or little? When we read your e-mails, we'll come to the conclusion that unfortunately you have no empathy, that all you think about is really support posts. The second wave should not be epatched in the autumn, because the problem is the bad social mood of the parts of society - as your chief advisor and propagandist Mr Maliszewski wrote in e-mails. Do not epatch with the second wave. Sure. Why warn people? Don't let them get upset, let them die alone. Mr Maliszewski also wrote about the fact that the abolition of the obligation to wear masks is intended to help Andrzej Duda in the re-election. A few days later, it became a fact. Prime Minister Morawiecki then said: I am glad that we are less and less afraid of this virus. How many people died after that? That's insane. Why am I talking about this? Because that's what your whole fight against the pandemic looks like. It seems that today people under respirators are fighting for their lives, and you're really fighting for survival, for life in power. This compensation fund is needed, but you should introduce it as soon as vaccination begins. Then it would be a fuse for those who had doubts about the complications of the vaccine. Of course, we know very well that vaccines are being tested, but there is a group of Poles who have doubts, and the government is there to resolve these doubts. You haven't done it in a year. Not much, there are parliamentarians in your parliamentary club who actually represent the anti-vaccine movement. You tolerate them, you raise them. You remember the dramatic images from one of the children's homes, to which your representatives, from your club, entered aggressively because only - or until - the educators organized a vaccination campaign there for their pupils. Why didn't you criticize it, resist it? Not much about the fact that, on the one hand, you say, you should vaccinate yourself, but on the other hand, you support those who have a different opinion, it can indicate that one of your newspapers on one of the covers showed fake news, it's such a famous cover with Bill Gates. You finance this newspaper because 1/4 of the advertising revenue is revenue from companies of the Treasury, from taxpayers' money. You're funding them - an anti-vaccine movement. Unfortunately, this is your fight against the pandemic. Today, health care is largely paralyzed. Those who are not vaccinated die, but those who suffer from other diseases also die, and by paralyzing health care they do not receive rescue. It's just these branches, like... Cardiology units, they're locked in. Do you remember a cold woman who left the hospital in Katowice because she had dementia that was old enough? There wasn't an ambulance to get her back to that hospital, she was being transported by paramedics in a wheelchair. And I'll tell you something else. I spoke to a doctor yesterday who said they were out of carts to transport a corpse 24 hours ago. It's sad, it doesn't fit in your head. Today, all of a sudden, after a year, you're introducing this fund, and good, and we're gonna support it. A few weeks ago, you announced new limits to the commune in December. Today, you've been announcing your vaccination duty since March. This is, unfortunately, a joke from the deaths of thousands of people. It's all wrong, it's all too late and too chaotic. So today I can say one thing: your consciences are really burdened with thousands of human deaths. [[Voice from the room: Unbelievable.]] I hate to say it, but that's what it looks like. Ask those who mourn the death of their loved ones today because of the COVID because it was either too late or they couldn't inoculate themselves at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u22	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a good thing we started investigating this project. But why not with others, more urgent, more important? This is, for example, what Marshal Czarzasty proposed, the necessity of vaccination for all, not to confuse with compulsory vaccinations, to arm employers with actual tools to control those who are vaccinated, the possibility of legally lacking, moving workers to other positions, or even directing them to free leave. Why do police or law enforcement authorities not have a strong legal basis so far to effectively fine people who are notoriously violating the rules on wearing masks, distance, too many people? That's what's missing most. We are in a period of rapid epidemic, more than 500 people die a day, including a large part of them would not die, only die of COVID. People die of other diseases - oncology, cardiac, neurological. These are the so-called excess deaths caused to a very large extent by the fatal, conservative and fearsome policies of the government fearing a fall in support in the polls, fearing the electorate of anti-vaccines, for which the right party is competing with the Confederation, hence the various fears. Real changes, very important - for which it is too late anyway, because many of them should have been since September, and the rush is December - there is still no. The Minister is acting in a chaotic way, not yet aware of everything, even if he wants to introduce compulsory vaccinations from 1 March. So what, this epidemic, tens of thousands of people who are going to die unnecessarily, have already taken it for granted and are preparing for the epidemic in the fall? But I'm getting to the point. The left will support the compensation fund. There will be a health committee meeting in 15 minutes and we will certainly be discussing a lot of important things, we will propose changes, and I think that in an apolitical way, on a common concern basis, this will also be an incentive for vaccination. I'll just say the things that the Left will discuss. We're talking about vaccinations against COVID, because it's very, very urgent. Anything that accelerates them should be supported. But there are other mandatory vaccinations, and here anti-vaccines also work, and the number of uninsulated children, young people, is increasing. We have a dozen mandatory vaccinations - we know what, there's no time. Why don't we start with the new year? As far as this money is concerned, there is a maximum ceiling set, and a general scale, and a year. And what happens if that money goes missing? Why the inflation rate should apply only to handling fees of PLN 200... [[Zdzisław, because there's no time left for John.]] Okay, okay, okay. ...and there's no increase in the compensation that's been in these tables for over 3,000. Up to 100,000.? Is that supposed to be stiff? That's what we're gonna be discussing. You're welcome, my clubmate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u24	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Project in Art. 17f provides for the processing by the ombudsman of personal data in the form of medical records which allow the identification of the legal person. Well, according to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 GDPR is prohibited from processing personal data concerning racial, cultural, political, religious, worldview, sexual orientation. However, project designers exclude this prohibition by referring to Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, which provides that the prohibition shall not apply if the processing of such data is necessary for reasons of public health interest. We as a club ask whether, in fact, the processing by the patient's ombudsman of data concerning the worldview, religious beliefs (the Ringtone), sexual orientation is necessary for the protection of public health. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u26	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition Poland will present its position on this bill. It should be noted that for a long time the government has been unable to cope with the difficult situation caused by the coronavirus that we have in Poland today. Minister Kraska doesn't say we're not doing well, but the data he's showing us proves it. It's been over 20,000 a day for a long time. infections, about 500 people die every day. According to the Health at a Glance report of November 2021. Poland ranks second among all OECD countries, just after Mexico, in terms of the number of excess deaths. It is nearly 2.5 times higher than the OECD average. Data today show that since the start of the pandemic, the official number of people who died with a confirmed infection is over 85 thousand. persons. It's like the entire population of a pretty big city has disappeared. These are even catastrophic statistics, which show that our country is not dealing with the epidemic, and actually the government is not dealing with it. Only those who do not listen to experts and doctors are responsible for this situation, and they kneel to anti-vaccine groups in fear of losing their voters' support and falling ratings. If you really want to fight the pandemic, then we have the Medical Council at the premiere, we have experts who clearly say what needs to be done. And somehow you don't want to take these strong steps. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to say: enough politics of submission to people who do not know about medicine, and the truths revealed accept on the so-called. It's a peasant's mind. You can't give up on groups that spread conspiracy theories when real tragedies and people die every day among Polish families. Your task, your responsibility, is to immediately implement measures that prevent the transmission of Coronavirus and, above all, to increase the rate of people vaccinated with COVID-19. As a doctor, I do not understand why you cannot make difficult decisions - difficult but responsible, for which all the opposition will vote - to protect the health of Poles and Poles. Instead, you're rattled, thinking about what steps should be taken. Yesterday's sharpenings are insufficient in the light of the daily statistics you give. The compensation fund you're proposing is a bow towards those you're afraid of. It's a gesture. I would like to remind you that the same project was submitted several months ago, as well as in the previous term of the Sejm, but was hidden in the Seym freezer. Today, in the face of a worsening situation suddenly, you have decided to reinstate it. But you do it in a way that can't be criticized. From the parliamentary project, the rules were removed, which were not to be liked by the group for the first time. sanitaryism, that is, punishments for lying to the health department and informing about uninstalled children. The whole project was thinned from 40 pages to only 16 pages, and the 34 pages of the justification remained 14. Currently, it contains only provisions on compensation for unwanted vaccination reactions. The question is, who are you bringing this to? Do you really want to make the anti-vaccine force of the part of your club and the part of your anti-vaccine electorate so that you are able to sacrifice to them also from your electorate and from your community, who are directly in favour of vaccinations? Your task is primarily to protect the citizens of the Republic of Poland. Do not give in to groups that put their ignorance and conviction based on untested sources in the first place, above the well-being of citizens. The Salvation Compensation Fund is a step in the right direction, but it's still not enough. However, based on the fact that good ideas should be supported, regardless of the scale they present - and if even one person from this title gets vaccinated and thus saves his or her life and health and the health of his/her loved ones - the Polish Coalition club will support this fund. At second reading, we will make an amendment to the compensation fund, which talks about doctors, about all health care professionals who are involved in the treatment of all people associated with the coronavirus. Why should there be a compensation fund only for those who are vaccinated and there will be (the bell) a compensation fund for the people who rescue them? At second reading, we will make an amendment that will also talk about the health fund for all those who are taking care of our health and life today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u28	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation. I wanted to say that the mask is only taken off on the platform, so if you go back to your seat, put it on. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u29	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Listening to the voices of my predecessors from the so-called. opposition, one can get the impression that their main opponents are Polish citizens who have some reservations as regards the health system and suffered in some way or attributed to the deterioration of their health status to vaccinations. [[Voice from the Chamber: It is you, Mr...]] Not everyone who assigns a worsening of their health status to vaccination is an anti-vaccine. Many of these people voluntarily took vaccinations because they believed in them. Their concerns or consequences for their health should be taken seriously, especially since even the government center, the people of the Medical Council at the premiere meeting with all political forces, some of us participated in it, reported that these negative vaccination reactions occur, including deaths. There's been reports of several dozen confirmed deaths due to vaccination. Those aren't my files. These are the data that came during the meeting with Deputy Minister Kraska and Prof. Horban. Dear Members of the Left, Platforms, PSL, stop attacking Polish citizens. Why don't you try at least one critical word in the context of international pharmaceutical companies who negotiated with this government the sale of vaccines that they're not responsible for. The government isn't responsible for anything either, because there isn't a law yet, even though the vaccination campaign has been going on for a year. We regret the fact that this law has all the shortcomings of the previous law. We are astonished to note that the Left and Platform have already announced their support, even though there are such shortcomings in this law. Let's name these shortcomings. Firstly, why should we take into account only the adverse reactions listed in the summary of product characteristics? What about the unlisted ones? Secondly, many backgrounds have been calling for the creation of such a fund for years. It is to be established only now. It has been in other EU countries for a long time. The national vaccination programme has been in place since January 2021. After all, we talked about this when the first document was shown by Minister Dworczyk. Why did you have to wait so long? Why is this project not completed? Experience has shown that many adverse reactions have been discovered many years after the product was placed on the market. Why are there restrictions? Why compensation is limited to only 100,000. zł and the bill does not provide for payment of compensation for the death of the nearest person? Why do we make the payment of benefits dependent on the length of hospitalization? After all, you can suffer permanent health damage and be hospitalized for less than 14 days. Why was it limited to 3 years after vaccination in the bill on, I understand, reporting this? Why is there no possibility of filing a report on this matter via the Internet? Why is there no transparent system for collecting negative vaccine responses? Right now, let's remind you, it's supervised by the health department, which is the same institution that's implementing the vaccinations, the same institution that's investigating whether they're safe. Isn't there a conflict of interest here? You're on your own to answer that question. Additional question: Why with 1.5% deposit pharmaceutical companies who sell vaccines through the European Commission are exempted from this fund? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And why doesn't the benefit be granted if the hospitalization had a cause in COVID-19 disease? After all, it is possible for someone to have a negative effect of vaccination and to be hospitalized for this reason. Why should this be mutually exclusive? The Confederation, ladies and gentlemen, will apply for a public hearing. We will present our project on this matter without these flaws. We apply for the rejection of this missing project, which is an expression of the irrational treatment of citizens by the Ministry of Health. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u30	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u31	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We have been fighting for the compensation fund as Poland 2050 since the beginning of the epidemic. The government promised us this. Several times, even at committee meetings, but there was always no will to introduce it. And yet this fund is one of the tools that can convince those who are unconvinced, to make sure those who hesitate, thus saving someone's health and life. Just to be clear, as we declared at your meeting with Marshal Witek, we declare the work and support of the project, but we cannot accept the situation where, out of fear of your electorate, you are trying to dispel your responsibility for fighting the epidemic by collecting signatures on the opposition benches. Since we are responsible, we are astonished to wipe our eyes, looking for a government-led project to really fight an epidemic that would give a good, clear legal basis to employers, service providers and heads of educational institutions so that they can check COVID passports. And let's remind you that COVID passports are not only a certificate of vaccination, but also a possession of antibodies or important PCR tests. Meanwhile, we have a fig leaf, perhaps important, but still, in the form of a compensation fund. It's very important, but it's not enough. When around 500 people die from COVID in Poland a day, you make embarrassing and contradictory announcements that doctors will have to vaccinate, but only in March, that they will have to, but without compulsion, that you will reduce the limits for non-vaccines, but distinguish between one and the other without the legal basis of the entrepreneur actually cannot, because in your opinion it is already their business. Laughter in the court simply. We as Poland 2050 will keep our word, we are working on this printing. Besides, we have already prepared a whole package of amendments, including. one where we abolish the availability limit in the form of 200 PLN, which must be paid at the beginning in the case of such a procedure. We want it to be free of charge. On the other hand, please keep your word to the Poles that you will simply defend their health and life. And get to work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u32	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u33	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Kukiz Group15 - Direct Democracy on the regulations contained in the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in People and some other laws. First of all, we would like to remind you that in the last term, members of the Kukiz club15 proposed a bill introducing compensation for unwanted vaccination reactions. Unfortunately, it was not procedated at the time. We are pleased that our position regarding the need to introduce a fund in Poland in case of undesirable vaccination reactions has been taken into account and Poles, as is the case in many other countries, will be able to benefit from a simple administrative path in order to obtain redress in relation to the possible occurrence of undesirable vaccination reactions. We agree with the basic objective of the law, which is to promote vaccination in society, which is the most effective means to combat infectious diseases and their consequences. Prevention, according to Hippocrates' maxim, is better to prevent than to cure, is not only the most effective but also the cheapest agent used in the fight against infectious diseases. We therefore support actions aimed at increasing the number of vaccinated citizens. Application of State Treasury liability related to cases The NOP, through the creation of a Compensation Fund for Protective Vaccines, will increase citizens' confidence in vaccination. At the same time, we would like to draw attention to the solutions contained in the presented project, which we believe need to be corrected. One of the main allegations is not to include in the draft compensation granted to the immediate person in the event of the patient's death due to an adverse vaccination reaction. The absence of such compensation is an expression of the inconsistency of the authors of the project who, on the one hand, grant the right to receive compensation to persons who have not suffered the lasting effects of the NOP and, on the other hand, refuse to compensate for the death of a loved one due to an adverse vaccination reaction. In view of the above, the material situation of the heirs of persons whose effect was much more serious is worse than that of those for whom the consequences of the occurrence The NOP was relatively mild despite the fact that both events were due to the same cause: adverse post-vaccination reactions. It should be noted that the limitation of the fund's liability only to cases relating to compulsory and public vaccinations, excluding vaccinations, is contrary to the basic objective of the Act, which is to increase citizens' confidence in preventive vaccinations. According to the justification given in the draft, the statistical data (Ring) for several million vaccinations carried out during the year are only found in a few cases with severe adverse vaccination reactions. In view of the above, it is not justified to limit the responsibility of the State to compulsory and public vaccinations, as vaccinations are also recommended with individual prevention and increase population resistance. Therefore, we have prepared 12 amendments to the proposed project and we ask that they be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u34	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Sosnierz, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's a good thing this project finally showed up. It is a pity that the earlier Kukiz15 initiative was not adopted, but better late than never. Unfortunately, this delay could have been significant: it could have been a power factor for anti-vaccine movements, because someone might have suspected that the government was expecting so much of these reactions that it was afraid that the claims would exceed the possibilities. It is a pity that this initiative is being considered late, but as I said, it is better late than never. This is why the Polish Case Circle will support this project. I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to one solution that will be worth examining in committee and somehow resolving this issue. Namely in the article. 1 is referred to as the vaccination reactions listed in the summary of product characteristics, i.e. those already known and listed in this specification. However, since the vaccine was introduced quickly, in a short period of time, and all safety requirements and rigors were prepared at an accelerated rate, reactions other than those listed in the Summary of Product Characteristics, or very rare ones, may occur. I'm familiar with the case of autoimmune encephalitis, which is a rare complication, but severe. I think that's a world report, that's the case in the specs. Perhaps due to the high rate of implementation of this vaccine, as required, it will be necessary to take into account not only what is included in the Summary of Product Characteristics, but also what will be proven to be related to vaccination. The case that was reported to me was very time-sensitive to vaccination. Fortunately, this is a very rare condition, but unfortunately it is difficult, so perhaps there is a gap in this area that should be filled. Maybe we can consider this during committee work. In general, the Polish Case Circle will support this project. It is a good thing that it is simple and does not cover all the problems of the world, because it will enable us, I hope, to quickly praise it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u36	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question further? I'm closing the list. First, Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is very good that this project has been put under discussion by the Sejm. It is expected by those who fear the effects of vaccination. They are afraid of health effects, but also of material effects, because if the NOP appears, it means that the affected person can be hospitalized for a long time and may lose the possibility of earning, and so its material situation will deteriorate. Any compensation for such persons will compensate for the loss of income. I have questions. The first relates to how the number of adverse vaccination reactions resulting from vaccination against COVID-19 is applied to the total number of other vaccinations carried out. In the case of vaccination against COVID-19, is there more or less of such reactions than with other vaccinations? Question two. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think it's very good that 1.5% shows up. payments when it comes to pharmaceutical companies, but is this amount sufficient? In my opinion, first of all, those who make profits should be responsible for the negative effects of their products. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u38	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! We have 170 grand. additional deaths in Poland during the pandemic, of which 86 thousand. because of COVID-19. 2642 people died only this week. It's more people than a year who die in car accidents. That's 27 tupoles. In this situation, one year after the start of vaccination, a first project to encourage them appears. This is a project for the creation of a compensation fund to secure the people affected by the NOPs. There are still no findings as to why we need COVID passports, whether we need to show current vaccinations, a current test or a document telling us that COVID-19 has been ill in six months. It's not there all the time. Vaccinations for teachers and doctors are to be mandatory from 1 March. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You pretend you're doing something, and people are really dying. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u40	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u41	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project is expected and needed. We will work to ensure that it contains the best records. I have a question. According to the project, the most deprived persons, i.e. those who have spent more than 120 days in the hospital, do not have the right to receive further rehabilitation benefits or benefits related to the procedure. My question is: Why is the upper limit for the amount of the benefit equal to the upper limit for the amount of hospital stay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u42	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u43	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions for this point. I think vaccines are very important. They save the lives and health of Poles. Above all, more people recovered and protected themselves from COVID-19 than they lost their health as a result of vaccines. I have a question. Do we know how large a group of people suffer from various complications? How many people died as a result of the vaccine? That's my first question. Does the Ministry have that intel? Do we know how many people have been harmed in this way? Second question. Will the compensation fund also cover those who have suffered from previous vaccination? We've been vaccinating Poles for a year now. Will this help be on the same level? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u44	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michael Urbaniak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u45	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have some very specific questions about this project. Strange ideas like this. non-compensation due to NOP for the nearest person. If there's someone like that. the main provider of the family, it is at this point that such a family is doomed to poverty and problems. Upper limit of compensation, or 100,000. zł, in a situation where treatment can be much more expensive, lost benefits can be much greater, this is also definitely a thing to improve. In my opinion, this is unacceptable. Another thing is compensation only for NOPs, which the manufacturer had previously foreseen. This can't happen because things may come up that the producer didn't see coming. Therefore, such a law in such a form should not pass. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem is also the participation of producers themselves (the Bell) in this project at a very low level. This is a bow towards the producers. Only the Polish state will take responsibility for this and they will not. This can't be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u46	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u47	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, it's not about the fund. We all agree. The most important weapon in the fight against the untruth, when it comes to vaccination, is reliable and comprehensive information. Only 454 serious reactions were registered for 42 million vaccinations carried out in Poland. They're the ones that are most likely to endanger life. That's less than 504, and so many people died last 24 hours because of COVID-19. You have a better chance of dying because of COVID-19 than because of vaccination. There's no doubt about that at all. Of the 100 people who went to the hospital, 95 were uninsulated. Only uninsulated people go into the ventilator. The solution is not to divide people into better and worse ones, or to use the language of division and contempt towards those who have doubts, only reliable, comprehensive information and respect. How's it look? Recently, Minister Horala of the government said it wasn't just a vaccine, it was an experiment. On the other hand, Minister Niedzielski (The Bell) and Mr Piecha and Mr Latos say that the vaccine is safe. Who are people supposed to believe? Let the rapporteur representing the Law and Justice answer the question, not the keys. This would be the first step if you would come here and tell us who is cheating Poles: Minister Horala or Minister Niedzielski. That's what I'm counting on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u49	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions about my previous speech. The first question is addressed to the Minister of Health. It concerns why he considers that vaccinations are not recommended in this project. After all, this is the best form of prevention when it comes to complications. Should we not say: Poles, do not be afraid of vaccination, they are safe, and if something happens to you, it is a fund, you will get money. I would like to ask the honourable Member of the applicant's representative if he considers that this fund should be extended to include this money. They don't have to be giant. The point is that money should arise if a person really dies, so that he has the money to make this initial horrible period of survival, and that there is money to make a civil suit later (the bell) possibly ask for higher amounts for death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a project that goes in the right direction. This will certainly be an aspect that will increase people's sense of safety before vaccination and not adversely affect them. It is also a project that shows that on the opposition side there are often good ideas. It is good to benefit from these ideas, because, just as it has already happened many times today from this speaker, a similar project was, of course, already in the previous term. I think that if it were already in the legal system, it would be possible that more people would feel safe and also inoculate themselves. Question: "Did you analyse how many people are not vaccinated also because you do not feel that you are responsible for the safety of vaccination?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u53	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In Poland, several million preventive vaccinations are carried out each year. Most side effects are limited to local reactions in the form of redness and pain at the injection site or general symptoms in the form of an increase in body temperature. The justification for the project reads: available data from the current global vaccination against COVID-19, which is unprecedented in terms of scale, also indicate high safety of vaccination. For every 10 million administered doses in the world, there are dozens of serious vaccine reactions in the form of allergic reactions, which are difficult to predict for the individual response of the body to the vaccine. These data indicate a high level of safety for the implementation of preventive vaccinations. They're facts. It is good that we are investigating a project that will enable the vaccinated to obtain a cash benefit due to the adverse reactions, without having to resort to court proceedings. My question concerns cases of misfulfilled application. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the correction be possible? Will the adjustment, supplementing the application be accompanied by an additional fee? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u54	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u55	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yeah, it's a project we've been expecting for a long time, and that's what the opposition has been talking about for a long time. But he was promised by the government in August. I'm glad he's coming in, but it's really, really late today. The BAS opinion on the provisions of this project - there are also very many reservations, but I think we will resolve them during committee meetings. We have been hearing for almost a year that the Minister has said: we will, we will. Then you want to, Minister, finally want to take care of the issue of Polish society and Coronavirus. Tell us, today answer us what... Because the compensation fund bill alone won't solve the problem. Tell us what other laws you're going to make, or you're going to write down the rules that the Medical Council provides for, which is at the premiere. You completely ignore this because the results of the elections are more important to you than the health and life of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u56	Thank you, sir. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Mr Latos as an applicant and Minister of Kraska, because we will be discussing this in a moment. Well, the parliamentary bill is basically a repetition of the government project from July, which was submitted in the Sejm in August. The parliamentary project is deprived of other things, such as: free medical supplies for pregnant women or women in the floor, someone new had the authority to vaccinate. On the other hand, the project included a part about COVID lies and the obligation of doctors to inform about patients who are persistently unwilling to vaccinate themselves. I myself, as an active doctor, have such cases. Is it possible to go back to these topics or not? I'll tell you right away. Soon enough: the fund will be given a startup, in colloquial terms (the bell), 10 million, then it will have 1.5% gross of contracts between the Treasury and vaccine suppliers. Will it be much or little? The point is that the Minister should have the calculations, because the bill contains rigidly the maximum expenditure in general and annual terms. 65% during the year is rigidly recorded. What if there's no money left?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Questions straight to you, sir. Minister, I would like to hear your clear statement: What about those patients who have already had a vaccine reaction since the outbreak began? There's evidence of that. Will they be able to use this fund? It's one question. The second question: Will the fund add an amount, however, to all vaccines that were previously imported to Poland? Poland paid for them. The third question: If the patient does not agree with the amount of compensation, who will he be able to appeal to? Minister, I encourage you to do this: instead of restricting economic activity, let us decide on the immediate COVID passports. The coalition club Poland and PSL will certainly support this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u60	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u61	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is very good that this project goes to the session of the Sejm, and in such a form that only the issues of compensation for unwanted vaccination reactions are regulated. That is why I am surprised at the total criticism of the opposition, especially the Civic Platform, which did not really read this project, but refers to some conclusions or events that are not at all the subject of this law. [[Voice from the room: But we don't criticize the project.]] Minister! I have a question because I believe this bill will convince those who are afraid of the effects of vaccination. The Act introduces the possibility of obtaining compensation, but the amounts of compensation are contested. Are the decisions to be made by the team final? If not, what is the appeal? And one more question, because (The bell) claimed that the government misnegotiated agreements with pharmaceutical companies. I have a question: Who negotiated these agreements or the Polish Government or the European Union? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u62	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! COVID is taking a tragic, fatal toll. Only in November 6577 people died of COVID and 3210 people died of COVID during the first days of December. These are tragedies of thousands of families in Poland, these are superdimensional deaths that could not be. I do not understand why the government and its parliamentary facilities are so well-being, because the situation is: the minister is as useless as the COVID passport in Poland, and the most effective in Poland are anti-vaccine workers. It would seem that courageous, responsible decisions, implementation of the recommendations of the Medical Council, promotion of vaccination, education on vaccination, the introduction of a compensation fund, which was supposed to be an additional incentive for vaccination, an impulse for undecided, uninstalled people, is not that difficult. The PiS government, however, has outgrown it. The compensation fund should have been launched a few months ago, and the recommendations of the Medical Council - already implemented a long time ago, because pandemic, dear country (the bell), will not wait until 1 March. The New Year's pandemic won't go to sleep and not everyone's going abroad to use a COVID passport. Finally, the question is why you removed from the bill the rules on penalties for lying to health care professionals and records about uninstalled children. Are these the conditions set by the anti-vaccines in the power camp? I have such questions for Mr Latos. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u64	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This bill is needed, almost a year late. It is now the initiative of Members that makes the High House deal with this problem. I would like to ask why, in the context of the revenue of the compensation fund, a fee of PLN 200 was provided for applicants. Is this a question of insufficient payments from pharmaceutical companies, because 1.5% that is not much, because the State in this law also accepts the characteristics of medicinal products, in other words, what companies have written down, the State accepts, and tells citizens that only in this area will undesirable factors be considered when it comes to payment from the compensation fund. And the second question (the bell) that concerns the adoption of the financial plan. It is said that on 31 December of the year preceding the Ombudsman will receive... After all, this must already go to the Sejm as an annex to the budget bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u66	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Catherine Czochar, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u67	Minister! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question if, as a result of a protective vaccination, a person who has been vaccinated within 3 years of the date of vaccination will have a vaccination reaction, so-called. compensation, i.e. compensation? And is it true that the minimum amount of such compensation is 3,000. zł, and the maximum is 100,000. Evil? How will this be regulated? It's about the amount of compensation. Can this compensation also be increased in certain health situations? [[The voice in the room: I don't think you've read it. It's all written there.]] Mrs. Member! Of course I read the bill, but I have doubts that the esteemed opposition will be familiar with the law. Criticizing and complaining can be done by any fool, and he usually does. Yeah, that's what he usually does. But... [[A voice from the hall: Ooh... every fool.]] [[What you said is very rude.]] Why am I being rude? [[You called us fools, it's uncultural.]] I didn't call you fools, I just said that any fool can criticize and complain. [[That's what you said.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u68	Thank you very much, Member. Let's see what you say when you're in opposition. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Marek Hok, the Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: Or in the ethics committee.]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u69	Dear Marshal! Minister! Mrs. Member! The opposition took note of the fact that the government's application had already been submitted on 9 April. The entries in this bill were those mentioned by Mrs Wielichowska: the fact that the health care can be punished, that doctors must inform about non-vaccine children and their parents. These records were - they suddenly disappeared. So that we know this bill. She went to the Seym on August 2nd and was stuck until December 8th. This bill is very much needed. Of course we are all waiting for compensation, but I think today we should talk about things that are recommended by the Medical Council; today we should talk about COVID passports; today we should talk about universal tests, free for all citizens; today we should talk and ask why doctors, why teachers, why uniformed services should be vaccinated only on 1 March. These are the questions we should be asking today, here and now, and the compensation fund, very much needed (the bell), can wait a few more days for all the amendments that are being tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u70	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u71	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! COVID-19 reaps a deadly harvest like no other viral disease in this century. However, this does not mean that other dangerous viral diseases do not cause death, including particularly dramatic deaths among children. It is worth noting that, as a result of the aggressive misinformation policy of anti-vaccine movements, there is a steady increase in the number of children who deviate from compulsory vaccinations. While a decade ago - in 2010 the number of refusals did not exceed 3000, in 2019 the number of refusals was already 50,000. In the case of measles vaccination, the level of vaccination fell to 93%, which in practice means that Poland lost its collective immunity. It should be stressed that measles is a much more contagious disease than any type of COVID coronavirus. Questions: What steps does the health resort intend to take to increase the level of child implantation? Why have the mechanisms to mobilise children for vaccination been removed (the bell) from the submitted project? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u72	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u73	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill under investigation is nothing more than the implementation of the basic principle of social solidarity and I am pleased that the discussion is going on reasonably. That's why I have two questions, Minister. Firstly, how will the cases of persons who will report to the compensation fund be verified? The second point concerns the source of funding for the Fund. I wanted to ask you if there's a fund pool at this point. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u74	Thank you, sir. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u75	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you why this bill was so drastically slimming, almost half of it. Why are we just talking about this compensation fund now that vaccinations have been going on for a year? What were the obstacles that earlier this draft law had not been brought into the proceedings of the High House? When do we start working on checking COVID certificates? When are we going to start working on the restrictions for non-vaccines? When we start working on mandatory vaccinations for individual groups of citizens, e.g. Social services, doctors? Why not until March 1st? I wanted to ask you about people with disabilities, adults with disabilities, children who also suffer from COVID, too. These are often people who do not know why they have an oxygen mask on their faces, why there are strangers around them, who have no contact with their legal guardians who have been looking after them for years. These are independent individuals. How can they secure access to parents (the bell), to legal guardians? Because they feel completely helpless, abandoned, suffering alone, without understanding what's going on around them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u76	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u77	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are living in difficult times, and surely everyone here in the Sejm would like the pandemic to end as soon as possible to find solutions that will reduce the number of people waiting for help in the hospital or those under the ventilator. This solution is very good because it is trying to address some concerns that are related to vaccinations. I have a question for the Minister about the 1.5 percent participation of companies, practically vaccine producers, in the fund. In other countries, because such solutions are also in other Western countries, is the same level - 1.5% ? Are these levels higher? If the contracts were concluded earlier between the Treasury and the companies supplying the vaccine, not by the European Union, because there is an exclusion, but the delivery (the bell) will be later, will it be mandatory to pay this amount? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u78	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowronska. There is no Member. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Stop sanitary segregation, yes for vaccination, but voluntary. I agree with Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who spoke, claimed - and I hold him by his word - that vaccinations will always be voluntary. I also agree with Mr Mirosław Suchon from Poland 2050, who says that today the worst thing is the language of contempt. Talk to Mrs. Lubnauer, Mrs. Maciejewska from the Left, with post-communists. This language of exclusion, the language of contempt addressed to people who are wondering, which we want to convince for vaccination, should be eliminated. You guys are looking for anti-vaccines at the PiS Club that aren't there. Just like Mr. Bart from the LGBT ideology movement, he was looking for areas against LGBT that just don't exist. In other words, dialogue, dialogue and dialogue again - this is the best way to fight a pandemic. Minister! I also encourage dialogue with people who are studying other ways to fight the pandemic, such as: Dr. Piotr Witczak. I encourage such meetings. Don't listen to post-communists, don't listen to the Civic Platform that wants to take away millions of Poles' civil rights. There is no permission (the bell) for a civil rights subscription. [[Voice from the room: But you need to talk to everyone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u80	Please, Mrs Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, you could say today that the mountain had a mouse. After so many debates, we would expect you to finally take responsibility for what is happening in our country, some responsible decisions. Meanwhile, we have one bill, yes, necessary and everyone confirms it, but unfortunately not enough. You're setting up a team of experts in this bill. My question: Why, if you don't listen to experts? You don't even listen to those who make up the medical board at the premiere. Experts say vaccinations are the most important. That's the second question. Will this law increase the level of immunity? Will you convince Poles that they should be vaccinated? For a long time, wherever you look, anything to listen to, whether it's about television, radio or billboards on the streets, we see your propaganda everywhere, which you'll realize if you put your order in place. If with equal commitment, with equal effectiveness you carried out one decent educational action, then perhaps you would convince (the bell) Poles that you need to be vaccinated, because there is no better solution and better protection from pandemics. People need to be protected. It's your responsibility. And this bill is the fig leaf of your shame. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u82	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u83	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have two questions. The first concerns whether the government has knowledge of how many cases today would be covered by this law. What's the scale of the problem? Are there any fatal cases, and if they are, what is their scale? The second question relates to the article. 17c of this law, paragraph. 1. The entity which has concluded a contract with the Treasury for the supply of vaccines for preventive vaccination shall be required to pay an amount of 1,5%. the gross value of the contract. I have a question -- we're talking about the vaccine supplier -- what about the vaccine producer. Will the contribution to the fund not reduce the possibility of claims against the producer if the person who has an adverse reaction (the bell) wishes to appear on the court road? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u84	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u85	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to CSO data, in 2020 the number of deaths was more than 100,000. in relation to the average annual value of the last 50 years. In November this year, more than one third of Poles died than in November in previous years. Such a huge number of deaths of Poles is caused not only by COVID-19, but also by other diseases. The government hasn't learned anything from previous experience from previous pandemic waves. The health system is falling apart like a house of cards. More and more hospital units are being closed down to the benefit of patients with COVID-19. There's a shortage of pediatric beds in children's hospitals. What steps does the Ministry intend to take not only to compensate for the adverse effects of vaccination, but above all to save the lives of Poles who will not be treated, because doctors - doctors, nurses, rescuers - deal with people infected with SARS-CoV-2, who are mostly not vaccinated? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u86	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u87	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Each day you are rubbing yourself against the unsavory record of deaths due to the outbreak of Coronavirus in Poland. It's worth pointing out why. Because you're not clearly promoting vaccination. This bill is basically going in the right direction, but what happens to profective action that could cause people to get vaccinated? The regime television that your former party buddy represents last night showed people who were in favour of not getting vaccinated, anti-vaccines. [[Applause]] In addition, according to the published information, anti-vaccine workers receive a large amount of money for this. When are you gonna stop falsifying? Minister! I have another question. We are all in favour of introducing the possibility for employers to control COVID passports through restaurants. You're showing this project, and then you're pulling it back. Where's the project? When are you gonna show him? When will employers be able to control COVID passports? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a concrete solution to fight the epidemic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u88	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u89	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Compensation Fund Act has been announced for several months. The project prepared by the Ministry of Health did not even go to the Sejm Committee, even though it was given a number of sejm prints. Today we are leaning on the parliamentary project signed by several dozen Members of the PIS and the Agreement, which provides for the creation of a compensation fund. In the light of this project, compensation will be granted to a person vaccinated whose adverse reactions have caused hospitalisation for a period of not less than 14 days. The compensatory allowance limit will be 100,000. zł. I have questions. Do the applicants consider that the total amount of 100,000. Evil enough? On what basis was it calculated? In addition, I did not find a provision in the Act concerning the exemption from enforcement of this benefit. Please respond (the bell) whether the benefit in question will be subject to judicial or administrative enforcement. How many people who have taken the vaccine against COVID-19 have had adverse vaccination reactions? Please indicate the percentage in relation to the total number of vaccinated persons. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u90	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u91	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What's it like - maybe you can finally say - that most Poles die in a pandemic? We have in Poland more than 23 cases of excess deaths compared to the average of recent years. Two cases in Denmark, only one case in 10,000. residents in Norway. It's almost 10,000 since November. people, unnecessary deaths. We vaccinate the least in Europe, we die most in Europe, we test the least in Europe. And even over this law, which should also protect those who do not want to vaccinate, we only process after about a year. Why are you so late? My question is why there is no one element in this bill - the case of death. If someone dies, it should also be possible to obtain compensation. Secondly, why doesn't there be a proper register? Why is the number of NOPs in Poland much smaller than the average in Europe? Thirdly (The Bell), not only distributors but also vaccine producers should contribute to the fund, and the amount of PLN 409 million is far too small. This fund must be a real fund to secure all those who are concerned about vaccination. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u92	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u93	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As has been said here, I'm sure it's a good thing that this project finally came along. As they say, it's better late than later. At the time of the procedure, because we will continue to proceed in committee, because there are amendments, we will certainly refer in substance to the comments that have been made and the amendments that have been tabled. I think everyone who's taking the floor here must have read the bill. It's time to put an end to this self-loathing, saying that maybe we don't read the laws, because we're taking the floor on this. A lot of questions are born, among others.: Why the fund in front of the patient's spokesperson? Why for an anaphylactic shock with hospitalization up to 30 days will be only 10,000.? Why only the characteristics of the medicinal product? And perhaps the most important question, Minister: When will the next laws that will protect us Poles from the effects of the pandemic appear (the bell)? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u94	Thank you, Member. Last question, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u95	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Minister, how do you feel when you perform and say 500 people are dying? The next day, you say 560 people are dying. You're a doctor. The patients are waiting, Doctor. They're not just waiting for little things like this to happen, you're gonna tell people you're doing whatever you're doing. You don't. To the health problem, to fight the COVID, you approach it like a dog to a hedgehog. I'm not gonna talk about the details. People are really waiting. As a doctor, you go out and talk every day, and 500 people cry. One more thing: hospitals are closing down. Aren't you ashamed, Doctor, that people who are cancerous, cardiologically (The Bell) are dying? Yours is this shame, and you, as a doctor, should be most ashamed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u96	I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Waldemar Kraska to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u97	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I may no longer be talking about the law itself, because I think the rapporteur has explained quite extensively what will be in it. As we agreed at the joint meeting of all the clubs and parliamentary circles, this is a law that safeguards the possibility of granting compensation to people who have so-called. Undesirable vaccination reactions. There have been many questions about what the scale is. If you don't mind, I'm going to quote the statistics on unwanted vaccination reactions, as of 2 December of this year, 2021. By December 2, 16 349 of these adverse vaccination reactions were confirmed, already verified - 13 276. In 421 cases, i.e. Okay. 2,5% , the occurrence of an adverse vaccine reaction ended in hospitalisation. According to these data we received, 103 people went to a hospital emergency room or an emergency room and ended treatment there. We've reported 78 cases of anaphylactic shock: 22 patients were hospitalized and 13 were hospitalized. If we look at deaths - that is, what is so important; it is often raised that vaccinations can cause death - we will see that we have 33 cases, but these are deaths that coincide with vaccination, 14 days after vaccination. We don't have any confirmed death associated with the vaccination. If we look at the undesirable vaccine reactions, which are divided into three categories: so-called: Mild, severe and severe reactions, we will see that the percentage of the most is of course the mild adverse vaccine reactions - 85.1%. Serious reactions are 11.5% , and heavy - 3.4%. It shows how safe vaccines are. Let me remind you that we have already carried out a lot of millions of vaccinations. This confirms that these vaccinations are very safe and, of course, effective. There was also a question of why there is no compensation for death in the compensation fund project. The reason seems pretty simple to me. In the case of a patient's rights spokesperson, there will be a team who will rule on granting this compensation in relation to an unwanted vaccine reaction. I don't think it's the role of this team to decide who's going to be compensated for death. We wanted any claims for death after the vaccine was adopted to be settled by a court which knows who to grant this benefit to. That's why we didn't put this in this compensation fund project. Who will verify such cases? A six-person team of specialists appointed not only by the Ombudsman, but also by various levels, including the social one, will operate with the spokesperson of the patient's rights. This team will include doctors of various specializations, but mainly infectious diseases doctors, pediatricians, allergists, neurologists, surgeons, cardiologists or pulmonologists. The members of this team will be able to adjudicate in a minimum of three members. Such decisions will be issued within two months. This will cover all claims from the start of vaccination against COVID-19, i.e. from 26 December ub. As far as funding is concerned, in the first year the fund will be financed from the state budget by PLN 10 million, and in the following years it will actually be financed mainly by the operators who deliver the vaccine, and it will be paid by 1.5%. the value of their contracts for the delivery of the vaccine concerned. If a person who is seeking compensation for the occurrence of an undesirable vaccination reaction is unhappy with the amount of such compensation, he or she may appeal to the administrative court. So there is also a way of appeal. This compensation fund project mainly covers vaccination against COVID-19 and compulsory vaccination. There was also a question of how it is in other countries, and indeed there are very different statistical indications in this respect. There are different options for these compensations, but there is no uniform model that could apply, for example. in several countries. We were based, I think, on the Finnish model, in which also this period of 14 days of hospitalization is required in order to obtain certain financial amounts. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that during the committee meeting there will still be many different substantive questions that I will try to answer, but I would like to say that this law is very much needed. I hope that it will convince many people who are at the moment hesitate to undergo this vaccination. This is very important. It is proven that vaccination is effective, desirable. Once again, I urge all Poles who have not yet vaccinated themselves to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u98	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Tomas Latos. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u99	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for all the votes, all the speeches. I can only regret that some of them were unfortunately very far from the issue of this law, and these were purely political speeches, in my opinion, completely unnecessary in the situation we are talking about now. By the way, a few facts need to be recalled, because I have the impression that the information from the meeting that you arranged for the marshal did not reach everyone. Ladies and gentlemen! At this meeting, we agreed that the compensation fund was needed and that it would be presented without the additional elements that were included in the Print Act No 1449. So this limitation is related precisely to the fact that we have decided that the compensation fund needs to be adopted quickly, and then we can talk about various other aspects that are likely to be discussed on this issue, whether in this House or in the plenary room or in committee meetings. I also wanted to make it clear, because I think I can say this on behalf of the whole committee, that we are inviting everyone to work together on this project and not just on this project. Generally, of course, we argue in committee meetings, we have different views, but I have the impression that, apart from a few incidents, we listen to each other with respect and discuss various proposals that are presented. And so... Mrs Okła-Drewnowicz is not a member of the committee. I don't know why there was a decision that none of the committee members, by the way very much respected by me, wanted or didn't want to speak on this matter. The Member has spoken very harshly, politically, and is no longer in the Chamber. I would like to ask you to send an invitation to the committee so that we can work together on this project, without this unnecessary political framework. At the same time, I would like to thank you for these declarations, which have been made that, in addition to some amendments which I understand will be presented or will be discussed further, the state in principle continues to support this project. This is good news above all because there is, I think, a huge majority, not only a minimum, to reject the Confederacy's proposal, which we will be voting on in an hour. So that the committee's work on this project will only be stopped for about one and a half hours, I understand, and then, but today, we will still be working on this project. Of course, a number of other questions have been asked. Some of them were answered by the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! 1,5% A copy. We can, of course, discuss whether this is the right amount. There were also questions here, why that's all. Different solutions have been adopted in different countries, and I personally believe - perhaps we will also be colliding with this problem during the committee's work and there will be a demand that there be no such write-down at all - that some decency and solidarity also require at least 1.5% maintain. Why? I will repeat the arguments that I used at the beginning of this discussion. If we have otherwise described even in the Summary of Product Characteristics and fortunately very rarely occurring adverse vaccination reactions, because we have producers talking about it themselves, and the patient who goes to hospital and whose treatment is often very expensive, even starting from the very stay in the hospital... After all, no one claims against the manufacturer, e.g. hospital or NFZ does not make such a claim to the manufacturer, only the costs of this treatment are covered by our common money that goes to the National Health Fund. This really no longer understands the demand that additional compensation be paid from all of us, i.e. citizens, i.e. from the state budget, with the total exclusion of producers. I really don't see any logic here. This amount is 1,5% is a really small amount, and I hope that these arguments will also go to the producers' representatives who are probably on the committee. There seems to be nothing really controversial here, but of course we will also listen to the arguments of the other side. What about reactions outside the SPC? In my opinion, this is a very valid question, because of course we have these vaccines that are on the calendar and for which we have an evaluation and we have many years of experience, and in the case of vaccines against COVID-19, against SARS-CoV-2, to be more precise, these observations are actually rather short. I don't know, we'll talk about it at the committee meeting. On the other hand, it is not so simple that it is so clear and transparent, so perhaps it is worth adopting the solution that is currently being proposed. We can always meet in time and make a proper modification, despite the fact that the Minister has told us that there is always a judicial path where we can pursue our rights. Ladies and gentlemen! Next: the question of the death of the vaccinated patient. Unfortunately, such situations are very rare, but they also happen. I also talked about this in this introduction to the discussion, and this is my position, at least for the moment, that any amount we propose in the bill, it is always someone who can say whether the applicant, or later the Health Committee, or finally the entire Sejm, that human life is valued for that amount. Whatever the amount is, you can always put it this way. Therefore, I believe that in such situations there should be a judicial road and someone should be prosecuted because it is difficult to write down, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know, 200, 300 thousand. How much exactly? Probably the situation is individual, too, and it would require an individual approach, because one thing won't be equal to the other. That's why I'm personally in favour of not changing it. Why are EU vaccines off? The Minister has talked about this and he'll probably talk about it at the committee meeting. Of course, this is the 1.5% charge. I understand that this is a matter of some agreement, which not the Polish government or representatives of the Polish government have concluded on this matter. So I also understand the point and the need to exclude those vaccines that have come to us through the European Union. I think that's probably the most important thing I had to say. I think that society expects us to proceed with this act as soon as possible after rejecting the rejection request. I think that once again, on behalf of the whole Health Committee, I can declare that we will now be working efficiently on this so that today this bill will come out of the committee and there may be a second reading tomorrow. Thank you very much and once again the appeal which has already been repeated from this speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get a strain. This is really an appeal to think about our common health and security. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u100	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the excise duty law and the Act on retail tax, print No 1824. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws, print No 1823. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on cover allowance (print No 1820). I would like to ask the Minister of Climate and Environment, Ms Anna Moscow, to present the justification for the project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my great honor to present another project from the anti-inflationary shield package - the law on the shielding allowance. All of these solutions are aimed at halting inflation, but at the same time do not hamper economic growth by supporting those who most need this support. The shielding allowance will be aimed at 6800 thousand. households - that is more than half of Polish households - between 400 and 1150 PLN, depending on the level of income. What are the income levels, I'm sure the state read to each other in the bill. Let me just remind you that the gold mechanism has been applied, i.e. even if the household is not within a given threshold, exceeds it by several zlotys, will receive support with deduction of that amount, which is the difference. The cover allowance will be paid by the municipalities in two instalments, 23 March and 2 December, i.e. in pre-Christmas periods, when household expenditure increases significantly. I looked at the last meeting of the Energy Council on solutions that are being applied by other countries. For example: Bulgaria - business subsidies, 51 euro - 1 MWh, compensation - 1st half year. Cyprus - reduction of VAT on electricity from 19 to 5% for vulnerable groups for a period of 6 months. Greece - increase of heating aid, enlargement of the beneficiary group, cost - EUR 168 million. Spain - VAT reduction on electricity from 21 to 10% by the end of the year for customers with a connection capacity below 10 kW. Lithuania - considering the extension of the heating allowance for the poorest, only 110 000. households. The Netherlands - additional grants, EUR 150 million for local governments to support low incomes. I was proud to represent Poland because we were the only country to adopt comprehensive solutions, reminding you: a reduction in VAT, excise duty, but also a cover supplement. The total amount of support in terms of cover allowance is over PLN 4 billion. These 4 billion in the following year will be sent directly to Polish farms. We are counting on the support of this law from all sides. It seems that this will be one of the few projects that should not give rise to divisions. It will make this amount of more than 4 billion quickly reach all Poles who are looking forward to this support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u102	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. [[Applause]] [[He didn't say anything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law on protective allowance, Parliamentary printing No. 1820. Since the beginning of this year, energy prices have increased in all EU countries, i.e. gas prices - up to several hundred percent - electricity and fuels, especially diesel and petrol. E.g. consumer goods and services prices increased by 7.7% in November 2021 compared to last year. This affects all consumers because, together with the prices of energy products and because of them, consumer prices are rising, mainly food prices. This affects households, especially the less affluent, because energy costs consume a large part of their household budgets. The Act will provide support for nearly 7 million households in Poland. This cover supplement in the current situation is extremely needed. I would like to point out that the cover supplement is only a small part of the anti-inflationary shield presented by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, which will systematically support households and entrepreneurs. For the purpose of determining the conditions for the granting of the cover allowance, the concept of the vulnerable recipient was introduced, which is the person to whom the apartment allowance was granted. I would like to remind you that under the Act - The energy law of this person already has an energy supplement, which is up to 30% of the product of the limit on electricity consumption and its average price at that customer. Ladies and gentlemen! The Act introduces a definition of the recipient of the cover allowance, also introduces procedures and criteria for granting this allowance, i.e. PLN 2100 of income on a single-member holding or PLN 1500 per person on a multi-member holding. The cover allowance will be paid twice a year and its total amount per 1-person household will be 400 PLN per year, 2-, 3-person - 600 PLN, 4-, 5-person - 850 PLN, and for six or more people - 1150 PLN per year. These income should be noted, not include maintenance, care allowance, energy allowance and the protective allowance concerned. The possibility of submitting an application also gives information attached to the invoice for gas fuel and electricity, and will include all the conditions and instructions as to how to complete such an application for cover. The reports and payments of the shielding allowances will be carried out by the municipalities. The amount of the grant shall be determined by the municipality on the basis of the applications received and examined from the residents concerned. The municipality will then return, on the basis of the records it has, to the voivodeship which will grant the municipality an appropriate grant. The municipality shall submit an application for a grant on a quarterly basis by the 15th day of the month preceding the quarter concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill and requests that it be referred to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for further consideration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u104	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens to the Act on Coverage, print no. 1820. Ladies and gentlemen! Inflation in Poland is now the highest in 21 years. The next Christmas is gonna be the most expensive... [[And that's why the shields are here.]] ...Christmas at this age. Prices in shops, especially prices of basic products, which Polish and Polish buy daily, for example in a grocery store, and which are the largest part of the expenditure from the household budget - i.e. food, beverages - grow every day, grow at an alarming rate. We have official inflation of 7,7% in Poland , for many months, one of the highest in the European Union. Let me remind you that in the European Union average inflation is less than 5%. So it is not true what you are trying to tell Poles and Poles that inflation is also crazy in the European Union - that is not true. The truth is different. Let me tell you about this experiment I did last week. [[Voice from the room: Interesting...]] Yes, very interesting, sir. Well, seeing daily rising prices in grocery stores, I dug up my old receipts from a year ago, from a grocery store, from groceries. I went to the same grocery store in my hometown in Lublin, and I did the same shopping. And you know what it turned out to be? That prices did not increase by 7,7% They didn't even increase by 10%. The value of the basket of basic products that Poles and Poles buy for their home every day has increased - attention - by 35%. That's the scale of the raises you buy every day in stores. [[Applause]] All of us, buying groceries. And I have proven it, I can show you receipts. Basic groceries: milk - 21% up in the last year, eggs - 29%, butter - 33%, potatoes - 34%, oil - 50% , flour - 59% Up. These are basic products, and I ask if Prime Minister Morawiecki finally learned how much bread costs. Do you ever go to a grocery store, Prime Minister? The undoubted positive of this law is that PiS noticed inflation in it. I just wish it was so late, but it's always something. In the explanatory memorandum to this law, you write about inflation, that - I quote - its level is clearly increasing. That's great, 'cause before that, you denied inflation even existed. And that this situation causes fear of lowering the standard of living - no longer raises concerns, that is a fact. We have talked many times about the need to take measures that will reduce inflation in Poland, but the President of the NBP prefers to work on the poor design of subsequent commemorative banknotes, not the fight against inflation, and Prime Minister Morawiecki probably does not even know how much bread costs so far. 10 months ago, you set up a 23-person team with representatives of eight ministries, three offices. For 10 months, this team was wondering what to do with inflation. You have produced this bill, which proposes ad hoc assistance, which will result in a distraction from the galloping rise in energy prices in Poland. Or maybe it is that - as economists say - the price increase simply pays off, because higher taxes, higher prices are higher VAT revenues to the state budget. After all, we need to get this 2 billion for public television, 30 million for the wages of 300 people watching the meadows in Baranów or another million for Rydzyk. [[Voice from the room: Fr. Rydzyka.]] Electricity prices in Poland did not have to grow this way. It is your policy that has led to this, not the European Union, to which you are so rude. Why do we pay so much for electricity in Poland? In Poland 70% electricity is produced... [[Voice from the hall: And in Holland, how much do they pay?]] ...of coal. Permission prices are rising, coal prices are rising, and you're announcing... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...that Poland will leave coal in 30 years. Do you know how old Mr Morawiecki will be then? 81. You really are planning in the long run, Prime Minister. [[Voice from the room: How much will Kaczynski have?]] Finally, I recommend to you a report on the think tank of Instrat, which appeared today. This is a report in which experts are clear: the reason for the rise in energy prices in Poland in the coming years will mainly be too free to go away from coal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just one more minute, Marshal. They predict that in the next 10 years in the Polish energy mix renewable energy will represent only 30%, which means that on average every Polish household will pay PLN 820 more for energy, and the Instrat report includes the planned reductions in VAT and excise duty. I invite you to reach out to this expert report. [[The voice from the room: How much does this... cost?]] So you have no idea of reducing price increases, and the proposed solutions are short-lived, and unlike what the Minister has just said, they will not help to reduce the galloping rise in energy, electricity and gas prices, which will continue, hitting Polish and Polish wallets by your policies for a very, very long time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u106	Thank you very much, sir. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, I do not think that the remarks on my fellow Member's clothes are appropriate. Please, Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u107	High Izbo! Any old lady who doesn't eat or can't afford bills is a shame for this House and for Poland. And every child who freezes in winter in an unheated apartment is a disgrace to Poland, and unfortunately this winter of such children will be more than ever before. It's December, it's already happening, and it also follows that the government has fallen asleep. I agree with the Minister that there is an urgent need for shields, but I must ask why it is only now why it is so late. And these are not empty questions, because many, many weeks ago Anna Górska together presented the concept of twin subsidies similar to the one you are using today. These shields could and had to be started just before. You really can't wait to help out for the winter until March next year. We will convince you of these changes. Let's leave the matter to the amendments. I hear on the government's side that this is all Just for a moment, it's temporary. I'd like to ask you why you're so optimistic. Ladies and gentlemen, the increase in energy costs, but also in many other key resources, cannot be seen foolishly, and we must stop deluding ourselves in this matter, because the development that is profit-based, based on the robbing of resources, has had its limits and we are getting close to them. The world here has long gone to the wall and Poland is going to the wall, and at the end of this road is a climate crisis, there is expensive food, there are problems with the supply of electricity, there are conflicts with shrinking resources and there are countries like ours that are unprepared for it. We are still not talking much about this in Poland about our internal disputes, but in the shadow of this epidemic there are powerful civilizational changes. We are facing a great reset, economic reconstruction, and for Poland it will unfortunately be a difficult challenge. Let us tell ourselves in this House openly why these price movements will hit us harder than many other European societies. This is because governments after 1989 plowed nuclear energy, and then instead of investing in clean energy sources, they continued with coal. There was a lot of right-wing talk about independence, but when it came down to it, today we're hostages to the markets and the Russians who are just blackmailing us. We in the coalition club of the Left have no doubt that we need to replace fossil fuels with clean energy sources, but the costs of this change should be borne primarily by capital, fuel companies, corporations, finally those who are most enriched in the robbery economy. The cost of change must not be pushed on people who are not wealthy. This shielding supplement is needed, but protection against energy poverty cannot be planned in the quarters. Poland needs a long-term, systemic solution, because everything indicates that electricity prices by non-work, by short-sightedness, which unfortunately combined liberal governments and right-wing governments, will grow further and in a year these shields will be needed much more than today. Finally, the shields will not replace a functioning social assistance system, because the government that brought us this bill today saves on the poorest families as much as it can. The poverty rate has risen, there are already 2 million people who are unable to make ends meet, 1/4 of them These are the kids, and while Minister Maląg boasted recently that there are fewer and fewer recipients of social assistance. In the draft budget you cut social assistance expenditure, the amount of benefits is a mockery. The fact that a lonely ill old woman is to live for 700 zlotys a month, sir, is a mockery. It is a shame for you, a shame for all of us and these modest energy shields of this problem with social assistance simply will not solve. We will not, of course, block these ad hoc partial actions, because it is better than nothing. It's good that there's a ban on cutting off the network, stopping deliveries in the winter. It is good that there is some outline of support programmes for vulnerable audiences, although here, I am not hiding, it would be useful to be specific. We have been asking for this for a long time. But I must point out here that this bill does not help everyone in need, and if prices, as you can expect, are going to increase further, then the problem with paying the bills will have much, much more families than just those for which the government has already foreseen support. This subject will return, ladies and gentlemen, and will return until we build real and long-term protection against energy poverty in Poland. Social expenditure, economic security expenditure are a necessary part of the energy transition and it is time to realise that. Without an increase in social expenditure - much greater than today's modest government proposal - energy transformation will simply not succeed. The coalition club of the Left will vote in favour of referring this law to further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u108	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that we have a significant increase in electricity, gas, motor fuels, energy carriers is no secret. The fact that we have an almost 8% increase in inflation in November, year by year, is no secret either. All this, of course, affects the cost of functioning of Polish families, especially those with low incomes. In this project there is such a thesis or diagnosis concerning what reasons for growth are mandatory. energy prices, and yet this government proposal for a law on sheltering allowances concerns not only the rise in energy prices but also in food prices. Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I would like to say that we cannot put just such a claim that this rise in energy prices is caused, among others. or mainly through emission allowances prices. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been working on this current system and I have tried as much as I can to say that the benefits for such a country as Poland are to be drawn. Unfortunately, I didn't have government support, and I have to say it with regret. If it had not been for the determination of three Members in the European Parliament, this current system, which is in force until 2030, would have been much worse. There was no backup. I was able to obtain what is now, among others, through my cooperation with the rapporteur. also money for the modernisation of the Polish energy system as part of the modernisation fund. But that's not the point. Of course, we realize that what happened last winter was running out of supplies. Moreover, we had trouble collecting these stocks, maybe not in Poland, but throughout the European Union - yes, yes. The reasons for this are well known. Who is most affected by this? Of course, households that are affected by energy poverty, and those that have low incomes, and that is a fact. This law is to cover over 6.8 million of 13.5 million Polish families, which shows what size it is. This is also a reason for deeper reflection in our High House. Of the 13.5 million farms probably all have access to electricity, but only 7 million of these 13.5 million have access to network gas, of which 60% goes for heating, and only 20% - for purposes related to the kitchen core. On the other hand 4.5 million farms use oil gas and there the price also increased: from 50 PLN to more than 85 PLN, and is expected to increase to about 100 PLN, for an 11-kilogram propane-butane bottle. No one is likely to compensate for that, no one is going to defend these consumers, these families from rising prices, because how? There's no solution here. That too should be said. Extreme poverty increased from 4.2% in 2019 to 5,2%, i.e. about 378 thousand. Poles, including about 90,000. children, more than was in 2019. According to Eurostat 17% Poles are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. In the case of the Czech Republic it is e.g. 11%. We can say that we are in a zone where there are lower percentages in this respect, because in the case of Romania it is almost 37%. The deficiency zone affects 40% Poles, but in the village the shortage is affected 52% Poles. And we have to talk about that too, discussing, among other things. About this supplement. As regards this project, I would like to say on behalf of the PSL Parliamentary Club - Coalition Poland, that in principle we support this project, too, we want it to concern a wider audience than a circle entitled to an energy supplement. Secondly, the purpose of the allowance is to vary according to the number of families, the number of family members. However, we would like to obtain closer data on the calculation of this supplement. In addition, the text defining energy poverty is valuable. This provision should have been introduced into Polish law a long time ago. Furthermore, we also appreciate that vulnerable consumers will be protected under the provisions of this law against the cessation of electricity and gas supply, particularly during the autumn-winter period. This protection is also intended to apply to people who have respiratory failure and benefit from assistance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is very valuable. The payments are... Your marshal, just a moment, if you don't mind. Go ahead, please, because we have a slight delay, sir. We should draw attention to the fact that the municipalities are to make payments as an assigned task of administration, and that there was no consultation with the local government and with the joint committee because it is said that this law does not apply to municipalities. They are to prepare resolutions of municipal councils, a model application, they are to examine all potential beneficiaries, pay out. But they're gonna get 2%. the amount paid. However, no one has consulted this, and I believe that the relationship between government and local government should be the subject of consultation. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[It was kind, constructive criticism.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u110	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Krystian Kaminski, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're proceeding over the cover-up bill. You have assumed that energy prices will be high this year and that they want to fight energy poverty under the law. Question: "Why do you want to do this, using the amount of PLN 4.1 billion?" We know that this year the budget from the sale of emission allowances, which is the direct reason for these high costs, has achieved 23 billion, of which 11.5 billion must go to RES, but 11.5 billion can legally be ourselves. Therefore, the question is: Why are only 4 billion earmarked for reimbursement rather than more money? As for the project itself, I have a question: Why do you transfer all responsibility or all action to municipalities? Councils must themselves, for example: develop proposals on the basis of resolutions. Why can't there be a single proposal here that's delivered so that the municipalities don't have to deal with it anymore? In addition, why do all the procedures have to run the municipalities? When it was a question of 500+ and the transfer of this money to the Social Security Office, you said that the municipalities had additional responsibilities here, they had to be relieved. And now you're throwing it into the communes without consulting, without asking if they're prepared for it or if they have people for it. I don't think that's right. I think it would be better if we didn't. Supplements will not solve the problem of inflation or the rise in energy prices. What should we do? Firstly, to reduce fees and taxes - for example, electricity without VAT - which would reduce the problem a little bit, and to suspend the introduction of the European Green Deal, which is the main cause of high energy prices. It's not like you said from the Platform here, it's a matter of coal. It's a matter of coal rights. That's the basic problem. Coal is cheap. Permissions are expensive. That's the problem. [[Applause]] If those privileges weren't there today, we'd have cheap coal. [[Voice from the room: Russian is cheap.]] [[Voice from the room: We import twice as cheap...]] So that expensive energy in Poland results not from economic issues, but only from political issues. That's why you have to stop fighting coal. Unless we build nuclear power plants first. Then we can think about pulling out of the coal. Until then, coal is our primary resource. [[Voice from the room: Russian coal.]] [[Voice from the room: Russian coal.]] First of all, the EU's trading system should be suspended, because that's why we have such a price of energy today, which directly hits our citizens. In addition, I do not know if you noticed this, on Monday we had problems with the continuity of the maintenance of the energy network in Poland. The Swedes had to start an additional power plant so that we could keep our Polish energy system at this level. Therefore, if you want to get away from all of this, you should first create alternative. This alternative can only be a nuclear power plant. Until then, we shouldn't leave the coal. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Your testicles will run out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u112	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u113	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, What does the government propose at close to 8% inflation, which eats citizens' monthly wages? He's offering a small allowance. There will be no prosperity, no wealth, no stability. What's the bill saying? With the huge price increases that we have been talking about in this House for weeks, you are proposing a monthly allowance of PLN 50 for a three-person household, which means little more than PLN 16 per person. On a five-person holding, this allowance is to be 70 PLN per month, which is 14 PLN per person and the minimum amount of payment is 20 PLN per month. No prosperity, no wealth, no stability. Besides, instead of lowering the bills, like you did before, you're proposing to give cover allowances. That's a good thing, though not enough, as I showed you. You're only causing an over-the-counter administration. I really don't know why we should collect taxes in one pocket, and I really don't know why we should pay back some of our citizens. Of course, these measures, these allowances, must go where energy poverty is affecting, or to this poorer part of society, but this can be done by other means. Today in Poland, we really have a problem not only with how much we will pay for energy in the near future, but also with whether we will have something to buy. 2 days ago, on December 6, you borrowed energy from Germany, Lithuania, Sweden and Ukraine, and Polish energy networks admitted that we had a shortage of power reserves. This resulted in repairs in some units, but also in accidents that happened. Experts admit that this may happen at least a few times this winter. With growing problems with energy networks threatening us in the winter, but probably also in the summer, in the heats, in the blackouts, you still do not invest in new, clean energy sources, which will not only be cheaper, but also give us stability. [[Voice from the room: Even at night...]] All these subsidies are to cost the budget of PLN 4 billion. From all the emission rights you've sold this year, you're gonna delete 24 billion, I don't know, once. I ask what happened to the remaining amount and why you do not invest in energy networks, in the development of warehouses and, above all, in the development of new, clean energy sources. The real causes of inflation are (the bell) issues from which we cannot break away in this discussion. This is, first, the increasing debt, second, the politicised decisions of the central bank, and thirdly, and in this case, maybe, first, the long-term negligence in terms of energy transformation, to which you have also laid your hand. Of course, Poland 2050 is in favour of further work on these solutions in committee. We're gonna make adjustments because it's not enough for us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u114	Thank you very much. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to present themselves to the question? I'm closing the list. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u115	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The cost of paying cover allowances is PLN 4.5 billion. Municipalities to cover the cost of handling this task are to receive 2% the amount allocated to the payment of benefits. I have questions. The draft law sets a deadline for the submission of applications for an allowance. It will be 31 October 2022. It hasn't been indicated since it could be done. Since the Act entered into force, which is the day after it was announced in the Official Journal? According to the draft, the draft proposal for an allowance is to be established by the councillors of the municipality by a resolution. Perhaps it would also take time for the councillors to draw up this proposal and adopt a resolution. Second question. The project assumes that the allowance will be paid in two parts: by 31 March and by 2 December. Are they going to be equal amounts, or are they going to be different amounts? What will happen when the first part of the payment changes the status of the family, e.g. Is the baby gonna be born? Will it (the bell) have a different amount? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u116	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It must be made clear: despite the fact that Poles - perhaps wrongly, perhaps rightly - attribute to your colleague Mark Suski the words: the price of fuel does not rise in Poland as a whole, but at the gas stations... You can laugh at that. But lately, Mr Suski has flashed the fact that he did not know the price of the butter cube, because there is no price there, there is only barcode. Your prime minister doesn't know the price of bread. Well, let me tell you, the price of bread during your government has increased by more than a zloty on a half-kilogram loaf. Ladies and gentlemen! We said many weeks ago... [[How much does butter cost?]] The price increased by 5 PLN. A donkey in Radom - 12 zł. Ladies and gentlemen! Instead of taking care of it when we said fuel was expensive, that it was your fault when Glapiński printed the money... [[And fuel is more expensive in Poland or in the world? In the world or in Poland?]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] And here and here. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. And so is the Member. You have been doing this to spend money on projects (the bell) that do not really increase children's lives in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! It's time for your action today. Reduction of excise duty on fuel, reduction of VAT on fuel. Thank you very much, sir. These are actions you should have taken a long time ago. You, too, sir. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: That is what he does.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u118	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madame, ladies, please do not discuss outside the vote. You're welcome. We're talking about a bill of protection. The project concerns energy poverty - finally, everyone on every side of the room realized that there is something like energy poverty in Poland - and solutions to solve this problem. But at this point in time, when we read this bill, specific questions arise. Why do people who work and receive a minimum wage of 2800 PLN gross not receive this supplement? Households in which two people work, who also receive minimum wage for work, will also not receive it. Where did this base value come from? Who invented it? PLN 2100 in the case of a single household and PLN 1500 per person in the case of a multiple household. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u120	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u121	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Specific questions. Ladies and gentlemen! We know that the municipalities will be responsible for drawing up proposals, which is why a specific question will be asked. Why didn't you take into account the consultations in the joint government and local government committee in the consultation process, since they are the ones that will have a very large responsibility? Second thing: you've proposed two dates. We know how energy is paid in Poland. Every two months. Wouldn't a better solution be March 31st and October 31st? That's something to consider, and that's a specific question. And the basic question. You predicted that only a year would apply. It might seem that this solution is too short, and perhaps it would be worth thinking about at least two years? Why, then, were energy supplements given up (the bell) replaced? Perhaps this is not a good action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u122	Thank you very much. You're welcome... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Dear fellow Member, please do not disturb your colleagues. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. [[I was just trying to encourage you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask a very venerable messenger from Poland 2050, who was so gloated with a low raise, whether she knows that there are families in Poland, for which 16 PLN makes a difference. There are people in Poland. You can't see it in the Seym, but that's who people are. The government, on the other hand, would like to ask if it knows the old saying that socialism is a system in which the difficulties unknown in any other system are heroically overcome. Right now, you're trying to add this right here, this plus. She gave it a little bit, gave it a little bit, gave it a little bit, gave it a little bit, gave it to it, gave it to it, gave it to it, gave it nothing and flew away. Yes? [[And she flew.]] Well, he doesn't have the strength to do it justly. I'm sure they'll be hurting either one or the other. We are now having a huge discussion about this, while the problem is, first of all, to let people earn money, not to punish them for working with high taxes, and secondly, to have nuclear energy (the bell), so that we can have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u124	Thank you. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u125	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Why are energy prices rising? It's worth reaching for an independent NIK report on this. He says simply: the rise in electricity prices did not prevent the Minister responsible for energy matters, the government. It's not enough. The government also cheated on energy prices. First Minister Sasin promised that there would be a fund to reduce price increases. Later it turned out that they were just electoral lies. And today, this government abandonment translates into ubiquitous cost. Where energy prices affect production costs, prices are rising. Anyone who goes shopping can see that the government has turned our wallets into wallets. It used to be possible to shop, and today, as a result of the PiS government's actions, they're just shopping. Since the monthly amount is to be around PLN 14 per person in a 5-person family (the bell), I would like to ask the Minister from the most expensive government in history, what these 14 PLN Poles will be able to buy. Please answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u126	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the draft law, the proposal will be prepared, determined by the municipality by a resolution. The question is, is this the best solution, or is it not better to make a unified, universal proposal for the whole of Poland? If each municipality constructs its own conclusion, will it not cause a mess in some way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u128	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u129	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask you about this law, how the amounts will be calculated, how the thresholds will be set for families that run the farm, or families where one member runs the farm, and the other member or more of the members works outside the farm. And the second thing: By what date will the municipal council have to adopt the model of this proposal so that it can be submitted? Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u130	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u131	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister so beautifully quoted what the neighbouring countries did, e.g. Bulgaria, Spain. Minister, I'll quote you what our neighbours, the Czechs, did. They have reduced VAT for electricity from 21% to zero, for final consumers, for November and December. As far as Germany is concerned, energy and gas suppliers can apply reduced VAT backwards from the beginning of 2020. They reduced the RES support fee by almost half. That's what our neighbors do! I ask the Minister and the Government what you want to offer Poles how to refinance this increase for the whole year 2021, because prices so increased. Another question. Until now, there has been an energy supplement for vulnerable customers. This supplement has disappeared due to the entry into force of this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many Poles benefited from this supplement, and what was the amount? And one last question. You give local governments the opportunity to draft the bill themselves, draft the resolution and implement it. Why doesn't the Minister, in accordance with this law, draw up a regulation and implement it as a whole? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u132	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Energy poverty in Poland today suffers 10% seventy-seventy-seventy-seven percent. Poles. These are the people who have to choose whether to pay for the food or pay for the heating, or whether they can turn on the light bulb. The share of energy expenditure in Poland is twice as high as in the countries of the European Union. Energy poverty is what eats up Poles and Poles today. Of course, shielding measures can help for a while, but I would like to learn from the Minister what actions - not shielding but strategic - he intends to take to correct energy poverty in Poland. What actions, e.g. In terms of energy efficiency, are you going to take it? What actions in relation to the construction of renewable energy sources? What kind of actions... The idea is that energy allowances, which today (the bell) go to energy companies, which actually feed monopolists, can be invested in more and more efficient equipment in households. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u134	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to return to the question raised by Mr Rzep. Namely, this allowance is established for 2022. With regard to such a case, there must be some indication that there will be no need to respond to the rise in energy and food prices in 2023. Where does this kind of calculation come from? I would like to refer to Mr Kowalski's statement, namely that the price of coal is not a problem, but the cost of allowances. Only, ladies and gentlemen, these powers have also become a subject of trade. Why? Because it was allowed to happen. On the other hand, under conditions where there were zero interest rates, it was definitely better to operate on other instruments which (the bell) brought higher... Therefore, the government should ask - and I think it did - for a change of procedure in terms of powers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u136	Thank you very much, sir. [[Bravo! Eureka!]] I ask you to remain calm, sir. [[Voice from the Chamber: Learn from the Messenger.]] Katarzyna Czochara, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u137	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2021, there is a significant increase in energy prices in both the world and the domestic market. [[Voice from the room: But not so high. A maximum of 20%.]] I stress: global, European and national. That's what I'm saying to the opposition because she still can't understand that what's happening is happening all over the world. We are seeing an increase in electricity and natural gas prices. For example, I will give you prices in the Netherlands. [[And the wages are what?]] In November 2021 gas prices increased by more than 200% and electricity by 150%. Minister, will the amount of the shielding allowance laid down in the Act actually cover the rise in energy and gas prices? Public information shows that the gas will go down a few hundred percent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u138	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was really surprised to see that the current government has discovered that there is such a thing as energy poverty. Interestingly, it only involves the consumption of electricity and gas, while 70-80% fixed expenditure on housing is expenditure on heating and heating of water. We're talking about poor, freezing children. And which poor families are heating up with electricity and gas? Why isn't that even taken into account? What happens to the drafts of the two laws that we tabled in the previous term of the Sejm, designed to protect against real energy poverty by subsidising investments in heating energy efficiency and proposing effective aid and benefits? Another project (The Bell), updated, senate, lies in the marshal's staff. You wouldn't have to come up with anything, everything's ready, and for a long time, just get to work. If you can't do it on your own, listen to the smart ones. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since the beginning of December, heating bills in one of the communities in Jastrow, the Gold County, have increased by 564%, from 8 gr per 1 kW to 45 gr per 1 kW. The President of the Community claims to be forced to raise heating rates because higher prices were imposed by Fortum, which buys this gas from another company. So I have a question. How, in a situation where the rent bills that the residents show me, the 46-meter apartment has increased by 1,000. zł, from 500 zł to 1600 zł, is this supposed to compensate for your bill? How are these people supposed to function today when their pensions amount to 1,300 zlotys and the housing bills are 1,600,1700 zlotys? Are you going to somehow compensate those people whose rent has increased so much because of the increase in gas rates? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u142	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In January 2022, millions of Poles can send electricity and heat bills to Donald Tusk, head of the European People's Party... [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] ...who is responsible for the rise in energy and heat prices. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the hall: Who is in charge in this country?]] Today energy poverty in Poland and in the European Union has the face of the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen and Donald Tusk. You're not doing anything. [[Who voted for her?]] [[The voice from the hall: Donald's not in charge yet.]] The decisions of the Government of the Civil Platform and PSL of 2008 and 2014 have led, this EU emissions trading system, speculative, that this paratax is today the highest in history. It reached EUR 90 per 1 t. [[Voice from the room: It's true.]] [[Voice from the room: Lies.]] In 2014, it was EUR 6. It is the fault of Donald Tusk, the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. And you're not doing anything about it. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[You're funny.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u144	I would like to inform Mr Janusz Kowalski that the PiS in our country has been in charge for six years. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 6 years.]] [[Voice from the room: It's true.]] Please, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Janusz Kowalski didn't notice that when Donald Tusk's government was there, the CO2 emission allowances were largely free, [[Applause]] because he did so during negotiating meetings in the European Union. Meanwhile, this site does not negotiate at all and sign immediately Just like that, lightly giving away e.g. 55 percent reduction in emissions in 2030 [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] In order to avoid the rule of law discussion, you agreed to the most difficult 2030 transition decision for us. You sign and you don't make any transformations at the same time. You're not doing anything that's gonna make the price of coal not carbon price, but it's gonna be RES. You eliminate RES, you don't try to make them appear on our homes, outside our homes, but you preserve coal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Polish coal, not German windmills.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. [[And the Polish RES is what?]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. [[Kowalski. It's an obligation, isn't it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u147	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I think that these disputes about the price of CO2 emissions, Mr Cymanski, my dear friend, I know that you like to listen and believe that It doesn't matter to Mrs. Basi, who came to my office. She said this: Mr, a sack of coal... [[From the Polish mine.]] ...which I have to buy to heat my apartment with a tile oven, costs 35 zlotys, and before that it cost 23 zlotys. The difference is 12 PLN. Mr Basia, this 400 PLN on a single-person farm for 12 months is less than 34 PLN, so Mrs Basia will not even buy enough carbon bags for the entire heating year for this 400 PLN, only for this difference of this surplus related to the increase in coal prices. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask you where this amount came from, why there is no higher amount for people who do not have income, 1000 PLN below the cover amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u149	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Inflation is an important social problem and poses a great challenge for the government, for the parliament, for the National Bank of Poland. On the other hand, I have the impression that inflation for the opposition is an excellent political fuel. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] All these indicators, which appear here, that inflation is at 7.7% That it's a loss of one month's salary, it's demagogy. This inflation only occurred in November. [[But who makes money out of inflation?]] If this had lasted for 12 months, such comparisons would have been appropriate. [[Voice from the room: Year to year.]] On the other hand, one of his colleagues asked why 11.5 billion were not transferred in full to cover. The money in the budget is not marked, and we in this cover package transfer from different sources (Dawn) 10 billion PLN. [[You took it.]] Ten billion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u151	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! As everyone knows, PiS is wasting money to the right and to the left. On the other hand, I want to introduce a new thread to this conversation. This is a very important thread for Polish culture. There are disturbing signals to me that the organizers of many cultural institutions, such as theatres, philharmonics and operas, do not feel obliged to provide sufficient funding for their institutions, which may result in a loss of liquidity when energy prices are increased. This means that part of the Polish society, the poorer one, will not go to the theatre, the philharmonic and the opera. Please pay attention to this extremely important aspect of the energy strategy. What you are proposing, in our opinion, is simply the constant collapse and destruction of Polish society. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You are proud that the only criterion under which this aid can be obtained is the income criterion. You're saying that about 6 million households will get this help. There are about 14 million farms in Poland. Looks like 40%. this assistance will be received and 60% She's richer already. I don't really want to believe it. That's why my light's on. It's a specific question. There are 2 million workers in Poland. Self-employed, at least, can be estimated, several hundred thousand have their own home address recorded in their business as their business address. Knowing that various socialist and national socialist governments always shift costs from one social group to another, I fear that here we will exclude people who are engaged in economic activity. The specific question is: If someone has registered business activity in their apartment, can they also get this supplement? Second thing, advice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can at least break 2% of the inflation immediately, throwing Mr. Glapiński out of NBP. This man, instead of guarding the gold, made himself a Byzantine mansion there. I have to tell you, the market is gonna calm down. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u154	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Government policy on electricity prices in our country is a series of failures and progressive helplessness. This project is another proof of that. You only act when, at the highest inflation rate for the last 20 years, you have yourself led, there is a real risk that less wealthy households may simply not be able to pay their bills. Because of your omissions, the energy price for households has increased by as much as 20%. Plus, you've introduced a power charge that's caused more increases. Instead of helping to relieve domestic budgets by accessing cheap energy, you reduce the attractiveness of home-made photovoltaics by combing through the billing system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's the logic? Why didn't the Minister responsible for energy matters prevent a surge in prices? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u156	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Anna Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Covering supplement - this is associated with an antibiotic that gives the affected organism, and the protective drug is given to alleviate some of the side effects of the antibiotic. Shielded from what? From poverty. Another tribute, alms, closing her mouth on raises and charges, alms in exchange for support and votes. No, Prime Minister. Poles want to be independent, want to be self-sufficient and want to pay their own bills. The PiS government doesn't have any money. It's all paid out of our taxes, including the energy ones. The energy went up by about 100%. All over Europe - as you say - much, much smaller increases are, about 20%. In the energy bill the payers can find eight charges, including one for spent energy, only one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poles do not understand these charges. Part of these fees should be waived. Thank you very much. Explain on what basis It's happening. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, you also make money on energy taxes. This is where you need to look for savings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u158	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If anyone had any doubts, then just now Minister Moscow, giving the figures, convinced us all how poor society is. Nearly 7 million households will require this support, and these are the poorest households, so half of them are already in the area of aid. This debate is listened to by a lot of people, very many Poles, because they hoped that this law would improve their situation, although this year. It's very short and very little. They don't have that hope anymore. They know it's gonna be just any support, but they don't know it yet, since it's gonna be. We don't know either. It's December 8th, there's a first reading, so we've got a whole long legislative road ahead of us. It has been said - this is also what the rapporteur and many people said today - that by the 15th day of each month they already have data (the bell) to receive the voivodships. So when are people supposed to submit these applications? At least we ask for information for those who listen to this debate so that they can be sure that they will even receive this modest money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally, the government has seen a serious disease to which it has contributed, which consumes our country and affects all citizens. This disease, ladies and gentlemen, is inflation, the highest in 20 years. It was decided that for this severe illness, the government would apply a protective pill, not effective, short-wave, but propaganda to its citizens. This tablet is not enough that it is not effective, it does not apply to everyone yet. Too late, not enough, not enough. The government on megainflation earns an additional 30 billion PLN. On the cover, on this preventative tablet spends 4.1 billion PLN (The Bell), while in the history of our country there has never been such high prices of gas and electricity. The current's missing. Thank you. We've got Christmas ahead of us. It won't be a warm Christmas, it won't be a happy Christmas, it won't be a cheap Christmas, but the government will feed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u162	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u163	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In this debate, we should not only talk about crazy electricity and gas prices, but also about ultra-priced fuel, very expensive food and high housing prices. [[That's what we're talking about.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, we have to say to ourselves: there is hyperroads in Poland. You want specifics? There you go. The price of margarine for baking year to year has increased by 24%... [[And that's why Law and Justice...]] ...butter - 21%, transport - 22%, sugar - 28%, fatty products - 60%, salt - 40%. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: They stood by 100%.]] [[What do you suggest?]] Prime Minister! You're not in this debate today. It's time to wake up, it's time to take concrete action, because Poles have nothing to live for. [[Applause]] [[What?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u164	Thank you very much. Please, last question, Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The payment of the shielding allowance as a government task will be entrusted to local governments. After all, not long ago, the government took the government's service of 500+, giving this task to the Social Insurance Institution. The local governments have begun the liquidation of the departments dealing with the payment of the benefit of 500+. They cut the number of jobs and fired the workers. With this problem came to me employees of the family benefits department in Bydgoszcz. This applies to all voivodships and all local governments throughout the country. Now local governments need to prepare themselves personally and organizationally to support the new program. This is another example of your government paranoia in terms of government management. You close the slopes, you open the slopes, you close the slopes, you open the slopes. Who will find themselves in this government's legal and organisational uncertainty? Who's responsible for this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u166	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I ask Minister Anna Moscow, Minister of Climate and Environment to answer the question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me remind you a few facts. PLN 10 billion on the anti-inflationary shield, reduction of VAT on natural gas from 23% to 8% , [[Applause]] abolishing excise duties on electricity, reducing the VAT rate on electricity from 23% to 8%, reducing VAT on heat from 23% to 8%, reducing fuel price by reducing excise duty and reducing the emission levy to zero by the end of May 2022 and finally presenting today the cover supplement, which we spend more than PLN 4 billion on. All these solutions in the package not only inhibit inflation, but also support the vulnerable recipient, without hampering economic development at the same time. There's been a lot of talk here today about the price of electricity. The state cited various important, wise analysts. Were any of these analysts able to predict what happened to Gazprom? Were any of these analysts able to predict that the Russians would block the reserves, that the Russians would not complement the warehouses and would not transfer the gas in time in as much time as it was needed? None of these analysts were able to predict that. I think that there is no doubt that this is one of the main reasons for the rise in gas prices and energy prices. You say that the high share of RES guarantees a low energy price, but in Germany the share of RES is 43% and at the same time the price of energy is twice as high as in Poland. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: That's why.]] At the same time, I would like to remind you that today we already have 15 GW of RES, and the number of prosumers is almost 800,000. You're asking why local governments. This mechanism is a mechanism similar to the mechanism that we are dealing with in the case of an energy supplement, which the local authorities are perfectly able to cope with. For many programs, e.g. The clean air programme, local authorities apply their model. This is a preferred solution and applied repeatedly on the occasion of other programmes. Therefore, we do not impose a single application form on local governments. Self - government can count income, verify and transfer funds in time. We are counting on the cooperation of local authorities on this particular project so that the funds can reach the citizens as soon as possible. You're asking about deadlines. Much will depend on the discussion and the pace of work in this House. I hope that the opposition state will not block this process and that the law will be able to enter into force as soon as possible. Immediately after the announcement of the model application by local authorities, any citizen will be able to apply for cover support. I will briefly refer to the example cited here in the Czech Republic. He mentioned that the Czechs exempted their citizens from VAT on energy and natural gas. It is true, but this exemption is valid only in November and December. Our solution, or cover supplement, will apply throughout the next year. There was also a question about the energy donation. It was 80,000. conclusions, 2 million people. In addition to our cover we spend PLN 4 billion and it concerns PLN 6800 thousand. households. Let me remind you one more important fact about energy policy. It's about my current program. To this day, 450,000 have been deposited. Conclusions, of which 250 thousand. applications have been accepted. A total of almost 2 billion funds were paid out. The new edition of the project with a similar amount starts already in 2022. As I have already said, only our government from all European governments has adopted a comprehensive solution, a comprehensive anti-inflationary shield. This concerns both the VAT and excise arrangements and the protective allowance. Thank you very much and I ask you to support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u168	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project includes the introduction of solutions aimed at protecting less affluent households, which will benefit from a cover supplement on the expenditure related to the purchase of electricity and gas fuels. According to this project, the allowance will be granted to a household whose income does not exceed PLN 2100 on a single holding or PLN 1500 per person on a multi-member holding. What are the calculations for the number of households that will meet the set income threshold? How many families are going to benefit from this kind of support? Will this allowance be paid at the request of the households concerned or will this be done by law? Will this process involve institutions that already carry out the tasks of helping the poorest, such as municipal and district social assistance centres?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u170	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the cover allowance, contained in print No. 1820, to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm, based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, a deadline for the committees to submit a report enabling it to be examined at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 minutes 16 hours 17 min 20]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 35 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in People and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Health Committee for consideration. We're voting. Everybody ready? [[Voice from the room: Just a moment.]] [[We've already voted.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print 1818 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, it's not working.]] Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work, Marshal.]] Okay, I hear you, I hear you, sir, in a moment... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Make sure it doesn't work there. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Is it working yet? [[You guys don't work anymore.]] Does it work? Okay, well, thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Not yet, not yet.]] 420 Members voted. 7 for, against - 411, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and sent it to the Health Committee for consideration. I propose, on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for the committee to submit a report within a time limit allowing it to be discussed at this sitting. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] There's an objection. We shall proceed to the vote in connection with the statement of opposition. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal that the Sejm, on the basis of Article 39 (1), should be appointed by the Sejm. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, has set a deadline for the committee to submit a report enabling it to be discussed at the current sitting of the Sejm, will want to raise its hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Who doesn't it work with? It's working. Well, thank you, then. It doesn't work for you? [[The piss doesn't work.]] 422 Members voted. 412 - for, 10 - against, no one held back. I state that the Sejm has accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau. Thank you very much. That concludes the vote. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 23 hours 17 min 28]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media: I would like to ask Mr Jack the World to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The 40th anniversary of the martial law in Poland is coming up. In connection with this anniversary, two draft resolutions submitted by the Law and Justice Clubs and the Civic Coalition were received by the Committee on Culture and Media. On 1 December, the committee dealt with these projects. To make the work more efficient, an emergency subcommittee was set up, which proposed and unanimously adopted the text of the resolution at its meetings on 1 and 2 December. On 2 December, the Committee on Culture and Media met again and also unanimously adopted the proposed text. It is worth thanking all the members of the committee, regardless of club colours, age and experience, for a good, substantive and very good work on these projects. I think it's not so common that we were absolutely unanimous to celebrate this anniversary. I think we have created a good, coherent text as a committee. I particularly want to thank Mr Piotr Adamowicz, the author of one of the projects. Mr President, I am so sorry. High Izbo! In view of the seriousness of the subject matter of the report, I would ask you to silence the discussions, possibly to transfer them to the colloquials. So once again, thank you to Mr Adamowicz for the project. It is worth saying that perhaps as one of the few in this room and in the Seym we were interned, which, regardless of political colors, creates a bond. Let me read the text of the resolution. I think there's a good opportunity for him to sound in the plenary room. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the victims of martial law, including the victims of the pacification of the 'Uncle' Mine on the 40th anniversary of its introduction. Forty years ago, on 13 December 1981, the military Junta led by Wojciech Jaruzelski introduced martial law in Poland. This act of treason and war against its own people was formally imposed by a resolution of the Council of State and then supported by the Sejm of the Polish People's Republic. These were only facade curtains for the dictatorship of the Polish United Workers' Party. The introduction of martial law is a desperate attempt to save communist power and implement the decisions of the Soviet Union that the authorities of the Polish People's Republic established by them are to deal with 'Solidarity' themselves. The main goal of the communists was to completely destroy the powerful labour, independence and democratic movement created around the NSZZ 'Solidarity' and 'Solidarity' Individual Farmers. A reborn society inspired by the teaching of St. John Paul II, wanted to renew the face of Polish land, demanding respect for people working. The Polish nation, which was won in August 1980 and the incomplete subjectivity of the Polish nation, was again suppressed by force. It was the last attempt to stop the freedom of Polish society, which was taken away only hope. Paradoxically, however, martial law intensified resistance against communist governments. On the night of the martial law, thousands of members of 'Solidarity', intellectuals and activists of the independence and democratic opposition were arrested and interned. Many institutions and workplaces have been militarized, telephone communications have been blocked, private correspondence censorship has been introduced, the right to assembly, association and strikes has been abolished, trade union activities have been suspended and freedom of movement has been reduced. After that, journalistic and artistic organisations were liquidated, among others. Association of Polish Journalists and Association of Polish Letters. The criminal intentions of the authors of the martial law were fully revealed on the fourth day of its existence, when the forces of the ZOMO and LWP carried out a bloody pacification of the 'Uncle' Mine in Katowice, killed nine miners and severely wounded twenty-three. Shots fired at Uncle's Mine were a harbinger of further repression. The communists murdered about a hundred known by the name and surname of the persons led by the Blessed One. priest Jerzy Popieluszko, but most of them officially died in unexplained circumstances at the hands of the so-called. The unfamiliar culprits. The victims of martial law were also those who lost their lives, among others. as a result of the blocking of telephone communication preventing emergency services from calling. To this day, the full number of victims of martial law is unknown. Until the truth about communist crimes is revealed, this matter will remain an open wound in the hearts of Poles. The state of war was the rape of a proud, free-loving nation and the weakening of the mass character of the solidarity movement. His perpetrators didn't face deserved punishment. The painful and tragic consequences of this crime are still known in many Polish houses. We must not allow the truth of this betrayal to be blurry and relaxed. The memory of the victims of martial law crimes - killed, wounded, imprisoned, interned, persecuted in various ways and hundreds of thousands expelled from the country, forced to emigrate - cannot be lost. The desire for freedom, democracy and the break-up of the communist dictatorship and the release of the Homeland from the influence of Soviet Russia could not be stopped even by means of troops, tanks, SB and ZOMO. Poland regained Independence after 1989. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses its thanks to representatives of the free world who, following the introduction of martial law, hurried with the help of Poland and Poles. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland commemorates the victims of the pacification of the 'Uncle' Mine and all the crimes of communist power. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays the deepest tribute to those who died for free Poland and for 'Solidarity' and expresses the highest respect for all those who took the courage to oppose the next machine of enslavement of the Polish people launched on 13 December 1981. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u172	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear four minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Bożena Boris-Szopa, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u173	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the draft resolution on commemorating the victims of the pacification of the strike at the Wujek mine in Katowice and the remaining victims of the martial law on the 40th anniversary of its introduction. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Chekalski Józef, 48. Bobby Richard, 35. Wolf Zbigniew, 30. Scumbag Joachim, 28. Kopczak Bogusław, 28. Giza Joseph, 23. Stawisinski Jan, 21. Pelka Andrzej, 19. Thank you very much. They're one of the first victims of the 1981 martial law. These are our heroes for whom freedom, dignity, solidarity were the content of their short life. The brutal pacification of the mine Wujek decided to fine strikers and send a clear signal to all Poles. This brutal crime was bullied by society, lyingly convincing that it was all so that there would be no war and no bloodshed. Today we know that's not true. We in Silesia knew that already then. Sleep. The president of Prof. Lech Kaczyński, the man of the Solidarity movement, repeatedly reminded of the heroism and courage of the striking miners and their families, as well as the importance of these events in the context of modern history of Poland. He said that there are two dates in the history of Silesia of historical significance, dates that have affected the fate of our entire homeland. It is the outbreak of the First Silesian Uprising in 1919 and the events in the Wujek mine on December 16, 1981. He said: thanks to the sacrifice of Silesian insurgents, Upper Silesia returned to Poland after centuries. A few decades later, Uncle's miners stood up for their hope of a free homeland. These words, how up-to-date, are for me, the man of Solidarity, the Silesians of the generation perfectly remembering that December especially important. They are also an obligation to save those people from oblivion. It is about the murdered miners, all the victims of martial law, the miners from other mines, in particular the miners from Piast and Ziemowit mines and their underground 14-day strike, for which they paid a very high price. It is about thousands of interned and imprisoned, as well as the fears and tears of their loved ones. The events of those days are an irrefutable argument against the relativisation and justification of the communist system in Poland and the decisions taken by the authorities of that time. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u174	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mr Piotr Adamowicz to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civil Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u175	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you, Mr Jack World, for the warm words that have been addressed to me. I'm afraid I have to make a slight remark. It's about correcting the protocol. Mr Rafał Grupiński was the author of this project more than I did, but thank you again. This project is undoubtedly a compromise project. Of course, I declare his support on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club. I hope none of the clubs, none of the wheels report any amendments to him. More than 40 years ago, Solidarity changed Poland and Poles, scattered the structures of the communist state, shaken its legitimacy, gave rise to the conditions for democracy, the liberation of Poland from dependence on the Soviet Union. This great hope was accompanied by questions and fears: will they enter, will not enter? I will recall the words of John Krzysztof Kelus: There was no need for a neighbour, a native enough scumbag to explain to us forever that we are not in Portugal to remind us once again that maybe a Pole to Poles... I will say: maybe Poles shoot at Poles. As a result of the martial law during the strikes, numerous demonstrations, as a result of torture on the police headquarters, about 100 people were killed, and the pacification of the Wujek mine and the miners' massacre had a tragic impact on the history of Poland. On the dark night of martial law, thousands of activists were arrested or interned. On 13 December, many people who have taken a seat in the Parliamentary Chamber, or even today, have taken a seat in completely different places of this House, either on the right or in the centre. And so on. rapporteur Jacek The world has been interned. Mrs Henryki Krzywonos was not interned, she was, in quotes, beaten by the militia and miscarried. I'm talking about pointing out that no one has and can't have a monopoly to resort to the experience of martial law and fight it. The state of war divided society, killed civil enthusiasm and hope. Incredible role was played by party-government media sharing and scaring Poles. This great civic enthusiasm from the 1980s and 1981s has never been reborn in a similar dimension. Just remember the 1989 elections. By the way, I can't help feeling that in the rhetoric of the present so-called. public media You can see and hear the division between those who are right and those who can't be right. On 13 December, he was an attempt to block the changes, destroy the solidarity and rebuild the system of real socialism. However, it was only partially successful. There is a strong potential for resistance, refusing to participate in the structures of the communist system. A vast underground was formed in which the TKK and its regional counterparts played a key role. Its founders should be reminded. This is Władysław Frasyniuk, Bogdan Lis, Władysław Hardek and Zbigniew Bujak. The underground was not able to overthrow power, but, as the expert of Professor Andrzej Friszke's era emphasizes, even at the time of the deepest weakening of the solidarity underground was a power compared to the opposition centers in other countries of the Soviet bloc. To conclude, I will recall one of the slogans chanted at the street demonstrations: Free Lech! Shut Wojciech down! Yes, the person Lech Wałęsa was then a specific reference point for the great majority of those fighting for freedom, not only for Poles, also for the free world, as confirmed in 1983. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the Nobel Committee. The resistance of people of solidarity underground 8 years later led to the fall of communism not only in Poland, but in all our part of the world. The life sacrifice of Uncle's miners and others did not go to waste. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u176	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the parliamentary club Left will be presented by Maciej Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have important anniversaries ahead of us. In 5 days it will be 40 years from the introduction of martial law in Poland, and in 3 days - 40 years from the brutal pacification of the Wujek mine. They died on 16 December in Katowice miners, like all victims of martial law, deserve our worthy and wise commemoration. It is important for us to remember that the victims of martial law are not only specific people who have lost their lives, health or loved ones, but also impressive scale and momentum of the democratic labour movement: the first Solidarity. It is a multimillion-dollar, radically democratic labour movement, which brought hope for a better life and justice to workers on both sides of the iron curtain; a movement about which Tadeusz Kowalik, a prominent Polish economist, and in August 1980 a member of the expert commission during the strike in Gdańsk Shipyard, wrote that it was the most massive and most powerful labour movement in Europe in the second half of the 20th century. - to add bitterly that he has promoted one of the most unjust socio-economic systems, with the greatest unemployment and ever growing poverty. Who knows if this huge gap, this gap between dreams, ambitions and the first programme of solidarity and the brutal realities of post-transformation Poland for millions of Polish workers is not the highest price we have to pay for the introduction of martial law? It was never later able to return to the impressive size and social ambitions of 13 December. The courageous solidarity programme of workers' democracy has been placed on the shelf as a historic prop for which few can reach. Even today, in 2021 in Poland we have one of the lowest union ratios in Europe. As the World Inequality Report has just published, our country is tearing apart radical inequalities, both profitable and wealthy. The fruits of economic growth are still shared in Poland extremely unfairly. In fact, it's hard to disagree with Professor Kowalik. There are few countries in Europe that would be less solidarity than Poland. It may seem that recalling these facts, I went far from the subject of the resolution: the 40th anniversary of the martial law and the commemoration of his victims. However, I am convinced that the introduction of martial law and the pacification of mass labour movement have significantly determined the future economic and social fate of Poland. There is no lasting, functioning democracy and there will be no social justice without strong trade unions, without organized world of work. Hence my biggest charge against the proposed resolution: there is far too little in it to speak about the social, employee expression of the struggle waged by Solidarity. In fact, I think it would be better than any resolution to commemorate the tragedy of martial law and its victims by making - and it is in our power - that today in Poland it should not be possible to persecute and expel union activists and activists; if we were to claim Magda Malinowska from the Workers' Initiative fired from Amazon, Mariusz Ławnik released from mBank, Marcin Habera from the Trade Union of Corporate Workers exempt from Netia, Dorota Olszewska-Sioma, a teacher, a union worker fired from the Toruń school, finally union workers from Krakow, who were illegally expelled from work in connection with their activities, and many, many others illegally released, mobbed, repressed in Poland for union activities. On the 40th anniversary of the introduction of martial law, commemorating his victims, remembering the miners who died during the pacification of the Wujek mine, also remember how much remains to be done, how much we lost along the way. Long live free, independent trade unions! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u178	Mr Jarosław Rzepa will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u179	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There was no cultural congress. About an hour. 9 a.m., the children did not see the usual Telleranka. The phones didn't work. No radio broadcasts were broadcast. The concerts were canceled. The martial law cut through the daily lives of Poles. He appeared differently to the average citizens of the Polish People's Republic, otherwise 5 thousand. Interns who were taken out of their homes at night, another 50,000. soldiers actively involved in its introduction, otherwise supporters of the Solidarity, otherwise supporters of power. The first weeks of martial law are winter, snow, lack of most newspapers, closed cinemas, theatres, libraries, museums, lack of petrol, holidays in schools and universities, restrictions on moving around the country. It was the first weeks that formed a suggestive picture that was mentioned today in memories, photographs and documentary films. This image is marked by the experience of trauma created by the suddenness of the situation, the army on the streets, the lack of reliable news, the disappearance of thousands of people exported into the unknown. Jan Ludwiczak, chairman of the "Solidarity" mine in Wujek, was arrested on that memorable night from December 12 to 13, 1981. Unified miners working for the night shift, who witnessed the event, quickly informed the other workers about the incident and then decided to strike the occupation. They demanded the abolition of martial law, the release of Ludwiczak and all interned activists during the night from 12 to 13 December, as well as the abolition of martial law, which was intended to enable the re-operation of the union. But it wasn't just one small group of workers. He stopped mining not only Wujek, but also 50 other workplaces in the Katowice voivodship. It was an incredible act of unity. Unfortunately, for a long time now, the voice and opposition of the people have not been well received by the authorities. They decided to pacify the rebellion of the miners without accepting any concessions. Inhumanly and cruelly, they began to use force against miners refusing to stop the strike. On December 14, a fire was opened to the miners, wounding four of them. This, however, has not stopped. A day later, 1471 MO and ZOMO officers and 760 soldiers with 22 tanks and 44 combat vehicles were sent to the mine. The greatest drama, however, took place on 16 December, when the troops and the ZOMO were forced into the mine by tanks that had been overthrown. The strikers were defending themselves by throwing rocks and bolts at the attackers. Officers equipped with machine guns killed six miners. The death toll then increased to nine, three wounded died in the hospital. The bloody result of Uncle's pacification - nine dead and 23 wounded miners - decided to end the strike. Although these events took place many years ago, unfortunately still in our heads - the eyes of the participants - these images are clear and sharp. There are many questions, doubts that no one has been able to answer until today. Today, on the eve of the 40th anniversary of these events, united, as rarely in the Polish Parliament, we wish to pay tribute to the murdered, injured, oppressed those days, remembering their determination and will to fight for Poland. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, Marek Biernacki, I would like to thank Members for their good and consistent work in the Committee on Culture and Media, as well as in the subcommittee which prepared the final version of the resolution, and I encourage us to accept it by acclamation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u180	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Urbaniak will now speak, who will present the position of the Confederate Group.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Much can be said, much has already been said in this Chamber today, many right words, many bitter words about what happened 40 years ago. It's our duty to remember today. It is our duty to remember those who fought for Poland then, and not forget those who betrayed it. Don't forget that. It must be remembered that martial law was an act in principle declaring war to the Polish nation in its pursuits, in the pursuits of people who wanted to live in a normal country who wanted to live in a rule of law, in a democratic state, in a country where Poles themselves would be able to establish themselves. We know that this happened also on behalf of those Moscow decision-makers. We will remember those who have lost their lives at war, such as the blessed Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszko, like Antoni Browarczyk, Jan Samsonowicz, like Piotr Sadowski or Wacław Kaminski and many others known and unknown by name. The ones I mentioned, besides the blessed Fr. They're from Pomerania. All these people died just in the name of an idea. This is the idea of independent Poland, an idea which was just expressed by the solidarity movement, i.e. it was the emanation of Poles' aspirations to be a free nation. Today we are in a much better situation, and it is our duty to remember first and foremost. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u182	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 will be presented by Michał Gramatyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u183	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In my family Tych miners from Uncle lived in neighborhoods A and B, very close to the train station. Every morning, they went to the big house, passing the neighborhood square. Years later, a mining lamp stood in this square to commemorate the memory of seven of Uncles. A few years ago, thousands of local governments erected a memorial plaque in a monument. She's very laconic. These are the names of seven miners, some of whom in those days dreamed of free, tolerant, colorful, democratic Poland... [[Bożen Boris-Raccoona: What is it?]] ...who had the courage to stand up to the criminal system and at the highest cost. I'm the son of a signal miner from the Piast mine. I remember that time as a mist, I remember my father, who was worried about the fate of friends protesting underground, I remember the banner of "Solidarity," with which my dad was going to go to Gdynia, then hiding somewhere outside the house for fear of being searched, I remember those emotions that he was going to go to Pomerania, that he would meet with Lech Wałęsa himself. Uncle's miners weren't the only ones. Grzegorz Przemyk, Jerzy March, mentioned just now Jan Samsonowicz, Emil Barchański, Józef Larysz of Pszczyna, who did not survive the interrogation at the Civic Militia headquarters, Jerzy Popieluszko. [[Fr. George Popieluszko. Who's George Popieluszko?]] Known and unknown. Tired by the people's authority for their beliefs, for their opposition activities. It is thanks to the struggle and commitment of those heroes that we can enjoy today, thanks to the struggle and commitment of the living, including the Member who presented the content of this resolution. We must never forget it. Of course, we will all vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u184	Thank you very much, sir. 16 people signed up for the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to add more to these questions? You're welcome. So I will slowly close the list, setting the time for the question - 1 minute. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the victims of the pacification of the strike in the Mine of Wujek and other victims of the martial law on the 40th anniversary of its introduction. Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! Let us hope that in the future both the High Sejm and the Polish nation will not have to experience such events in our history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u186	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u187	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, this is an important anniversary, and in addition to commemorating those who made such a sacrifice at the time, I would very much ask that the Institute of National Remembrance, which should examine these events very thoroughly and very deeply, in writing, answer us the question which he has taken in the last year to explain all these events that took place, to find all the heroes of those days and those who have proved unworthy of being fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Olichwer will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u189	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! For residents especially Silesian mine Wujek is a symbol of fighting for free Poland. I was lucky to have lived on the street for a while years ago. Gallus in Katowice, near the mine, next to the cross commemorating the murdered miners, nine from Uncle. I always felt emotional and admired their heroic attitude passing by this place. Today, from this place, I'll let you remember their names. Jan Stawisiński, Joachim Gnida, Józef Czekalski, Krzysztof Giza, Ryszard Gzik, Bogusław Kopczak, Andrzej Pelka, Zbigniew Wilk, Zenon Zając. Hello their memory! Hello and praise the heroes! [[Applause]] [[The Gathered Rise Up]] [[Hello and praise the heroes!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u190	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki. [[And I've been there before. Matthew Bochenek.]] Excuse me. Mr Mateusz Bochenek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Historical experiences, but also these experiences from 40 years ago, show how strong opposition to censorship has always been in the Polish nation, against restrictions on freedom and freedom, against violations of the law. The oppressor, one or another, always wanted to enslave another man by force, but this movement of solidarity has always been strong in the Polish people. When these rights were limited, our fellow countrymen united to fight, even often bearing the greatest price, giving their lives. Today we remind you of these events from the past, we remind you of the miners from the mine of Wujek, we remind you of the many nameless ones, those who died during the martial law, those who fought for free Poland, for freedom, because this is the most valuable value they had. Let us remember the great sacrifice this freedom has been fought out. May we never have to fight for this freedom again and remember that freedom is not given once and for all and must be cared for and cared for in order not to lose it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki will speak. There isn't. I would therefore like to invite you to the speaker of Mr Franciszek Sterczewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u193	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The martial law was incompatible with the Constitution of that time. So power acted not only against people but also against the law. Consequently, no one felt responsible for human rights violations. The death of the strikers in the Uncle's mine and the long-term trial of the perpetrators are proof of this. However, this approach to the law is unfortunately not only the past, but also the present. The government introduced a state of emergency despite the lack of conditions in the article. 230 constitutions, and now he's prolonging it, breaking it again. You still don't allow relief organizations, medics, media. A 4-year-old girl named Eileen went missing near the border yesterday. [[But that's not true. You're replicating the untruth. She wasn't even there.]] Let's hope he finds out and doesn't become another victim of your inhuman policy. The law exists to protect everyone. When power breaks them, it always means human suffering. But just as history has accounted for those who brought in martial law 40 years ago, so will you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u194	Ms Joanna Senyshin will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The text of the resolution is biased, full of hatred for the Polish People's Republic, false statements, and above all it unnecessarily lies to history. "Solidarity, which I have been a member since the first days, wanted not to change the system in 1980 and 1981 and, above all, to improve living conditions. It is worth recalling that most of the 21 postulates of "Solidarity," of which we are proud and which are included in the UNESCO World Heritage List, are socio-economic issues that determine the level and quality of life. [[Voice from the hall: Away with the commune!]] For example, the 11th postulate for Solidarity was a demand for the introduction of meat cards, so ridiculed today. Lying sentence: Communists murdered about 100 known by the name and surname of persons, headed by the Blessed Virgin Mary. Fr. I'm an ashes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[You praise the commune.]] Really, Fr. Popieluszko was murdered on October 19, 1984, 1 year and 3 months after the abolition of martial law. [[But he was a victim of communism.]] Is it really worthwhile and necessary to forge the truth about that time in the special resolution? [[Voice from the room: He murdered himself.]] [[Voice from the hall: Disgrace and scandal!]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Shame, Member.]] [[Falsify the truth - it's a disgrace and a scandal.]] [[Voice from the hall: Away with the commune!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u196	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, this draft resolution is right and there is no doubt about it, but its language is aggressive, which also does not suit me. History isn't black and white. The story is what it is. Today I pay attention to one thing. I'm from Szczecin, and even as a child, I had these moments that were happening there. I think that all of us, as a political class, even though this is particularly true of today's rulers, are making the mistake of not respecting those who then risked and led these strikes. I'm thinking Lech Wałęsa or sleep. Marian Jurczyk, [[Applause]] because they're also people who are just in this story, no matter how we judge it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Lech Wałęsa headed the strike in 1981? You're wrong.]] These are people who actually had great significance in Polish history. It's about the people who were in charge of the organization at the time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u198	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u199	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Yes, it is true that the greatest resistance in the country against martial law was in Silesia. Yes, it's true that the greatest victims were the miners. Yes, it is true that on 16 December 1981 young people - miners, fathers, men - miners - were killed, who protected their families. Today is the time for us to bow down to them. However, I would like to return to 15 December, because it was then that the first shots fired on the site of the July Manifesto mine in Jastrzębie-Zdrój. No one was killed, but many miners were wounded, and from that moment on, violent pressure from the attackers was growing from the government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the site of the Manifesto of July the year before, on 3 September 1980, the Jastrzębski agreements were signed, which, following the Szczecin agreements, became part of the August agreements. For several years the president of the town of Hawk-Zdrój has been trying to commemorate these events with dignity. We have written to the Prime Minister, to the Minister of Culture, requests for funding for this purpose. There's no response until today. It's a pity you're not with us today, Mr. Minister of Culture isn't here. My question is to the government: When will you honor the people who fought for our freedom and democracy in 1980 and 1981? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u200	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Wojciech the King.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I come from Mysłowice - from a city that is adjacent to Katowice. I was born 4 years after the tragic events of 1981, but in my home, which is Silesia, there are still reports of Silesians and the memory of nine of Uncles. Let me ask you about the meaning of the miner's victim: Is this what Poland was about for the fallen? Did they carry this kind of Poland in their hearts? Was this the kind of Poland they dreamed of 40 years ago, on 16 December 1981? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once again, Polish blood soaked into Silesian soil in the struggle for freedom, in the fight for free Poland, for democratic, legal and just Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u202	Thank you very much. Now, please take the floor of Mr Janusz Kowalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[That's law and justice.]] [[It's not the law, it's just...]] General of the Soviet People's Army of Poland, planner of martial law... Excuse me, sir. Please don't discuss this during... [[Mr. Marshal, I would like to ask you kindly.]] But I, too, ask that this point, which requires real seriousness and respect for the victims, be deprived of emotions and arguments. [[So do not attack a woman in the plenary room.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Communist general of the Polish People's Army Wacław Szklarski was recently buried in Warsaw Powązki in the military part. Formerly, a communist activist was also buried there, and above all the head of the security service, on which the executives of the murder of Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko - Władysław Ciestoń. This is the responsibility of the M.S. Warsaw Rafał Trzaskowski. These are decisions today, on the 40th anniversary of martial law. Something's wrong with our memory. On the 40th anniversary of the martial law, communists sitting here on the left, from the Left, attack the Institute of National Remembrance, attack the historical truth, attack the truth about the Soviet occupation of Poland after 1944. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[They're demanding the truth, not attacking.]] Do not disturb the Member who is speaking. Today, on the 40th anniversary, you have to tell the truth. I also appeal to the Institute of National Remembrance to restore this historical truth and finally to cause these communist murderers and criminals from Powęzek military to disappear. Because it is a disgrace to Polish national memory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u204	Thank you. Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u205	The state of war was declared when the national committee in Gdansk concluded its deliberations. All the activists from different regions were on the committee's agenda. Two returned to Łódź: President Andrzej Słowik and Vice-President Jerzy Kropiwnicki. And this was the first time in Łódź that the slogan contained in this resolution, namely: power declared war on its own nation. Very characteristic - I show it to you - this was the pacification of the management of the region of Łódź on the street. Piotrkowska. I was then head of the organizational department of Solidarity. But the important thing is that at the time we fought for subjectivity. And symbolically, in this building later the European Institute was established, founded by Jack Saryusz-Wolski. This building was handed over by the authorities of Łódź, in which I was also then, already in the 1990s. This institute (The Bell) also fought and should fight for the subjectivity of Poland, also in the European Union. We wanted to be in the European Union, but our intention is to remain subjective. I would like to say that these elements are still valid, and I hope that this fight will be attended by all of you, that we will try to preserve and defend Polish interests. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Macierewicz will now speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a dozen seconds to answer the question. Well, the most important question that should be asked is why they wanted to murder Poland's independence. Because this is the essence of martial law. The state of war was to break the backbone of the Polish nation, which organized itself, like no other nation in history, in a gigantic structure of more than 13 million people, carrying out the first free elections in the last 50 years of the Soviet occupation, was to be broken by Soviet representatives, by Soviet generals. When today we remind you of that time when today we show the terrible martyrdom (the Bell) of the miners of the mine Uncle, the Piast mine, other mines, then we ask: Why were the PRL generals who introduced martial law, i.e. those who waged war against the nation, not to this day degraded? That's the main question. We expect an answer to that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u208	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Arrow will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For some Poles, the event December is only a story. For families of killed miners - mourning and loss of loved ones that accompany them to this day. For several years every year on the anniversary of the declaration of martial law and the anniversary of the death of Józef Krzysztof Giza I look at the family of the killed miner and listen to her memories. And the most tragic moment of these memories is a funeral that was not a hero's funeral - a heavily guarded coffin, hiding the body from the eyes of family and loved ones, an escort of militia and a quick burial. Because none of the authorities of the People's Republic of Poland wanted to confess to the murder of Uncle's miners. A convenient argument was the necessary defence. Today, remembering the victims of this crime - miners killed and wounded during the pacification of the Uncle mine, let us remember their families, their loved ones, who for years have tried to find the meaning of the victim of their lives. We owe them a memory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u210	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Adamowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u211	Thank you, Marshal. In fact, I did not want to speak, but in a way I was called by Members of the Left. Well, we, me and our club, aren't exactly satisfied with this draft resolution either. But this is a compromise. Members of your club took part in the work and commission and subcommittees. And to Professor Senyszyn. It is not that we have two extreme dates, i.e. initial and final cesareas. We have an initial cesarean, which is December 13th. Formally, martial law expired, but its effects in the formal sense, the functioning of the whole system, continued and this was also the effect of the murder of Fr. George Popieluszko. I requested - there are representatives of the Law and Justice - to add this. Although formally Fr. Popieluszko was not murdered in martial law, the effects of what happened were long-lasting and continued until the end of the 1980s. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Bąk will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As a parliament, we pay tribute to the miners who died in the Uncle's mine and all those murdered in war. Today, however, we also pay tribute to all Poles who, at war and earlier, demanded Poland's independence and that Poland be white and red and Catholic. All Poles, workers, students, farmers, all of these 10 million workers of Solidarity and 1 million of Rural Solidarity. Hello and praise the heroes! [[Applause]] [[Hello and praise the heroes!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u214	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Pamuła will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I remember exactly on December 13th, the morning of December 13 with light snow. That's when everything broke down, all of us. We were young, we were 25 years old, I was just 25 years old. There was a great hope for us. This hope was killed, but the spark did not extinguish in us, so that today I stand here and I can thank all nameless people, Poles, who believed that Poland did not die and will not die. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Sosnierz will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u217	Unlike Mrs. Senyshin, I have no intention of relativizing the Communist faults. I wonder, however, how in 30 years the resolution commemorating the victims of the current martial law introduced by the government in the name of the fight against the virus of mortality expressed in the fourth decimal place will look like. How are we gonna remember hundreds of thousands of victims, shut down parts of hospitals, health care? [[Depends on who.]] How are we gonna reminisce about internships in illegal quarantines? How are we going to remember the intimidated doctors removed from the profession for trying to question the only right narrative? [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr President, do not compare this.]] How are we going to mention censorship on the Internet and in the media, where the only right narrative was supported by banning, limiting coverage or throwing people saying uncomfortable things out of the debate? It doesn't seem like it's over. Today we heard Marshal Charzasty, how he instigates here to the next steps, to the further war, to further aggravate the social conflict. The same people who forced communism at the time, now want to force vaccination. Don't let them trick you (the bell) because the target has changed, but the methods, as you can see, remain. [[Applause]] [[That's bullshit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u218	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The 40th anniversary of martial law cannot be a tool for political revenge. This is something that can be the worst and can be aimed at the Polish democratic society, at our diversity and openness. Let me remind you for the sake of order that we are struggling with history and are slaves to history. We're incarcerated by her. Actually, modern times are of medium interest to us, while history has become the main arena, the main space of our emotions, reflections, but also our political struggle and political divisions. I want to remind people like Karol Modzelewski, Jacek Kuroń, Władysław Frasyniuk, Adam Michnik - they were my heroes. I used to call them names, and they showed me the way to freedom. They wanted the road to freedom, and martial law was an escape from freedom. After 1989, and especially today, with great pain I look at the escape from freedom. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u220	Thank you very much. On this, the list of Members of the Committee for Questions has been exhausted. [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] But the Member will have the floor as rapporteur. Now I ask the applicant's representative, Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u221	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It has been forty years since the declaration of martial law, the largest operation in the history of the communist security apparatus aimed at the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity) and millions of Poles supporting it. Through this resolution we want to commemorate the victims of those events, clearly show the historical truth. And no, we're not incarcerated by history like it just happened. We owe the Poles the historical truth. Showing it is our duty to thousands of opponents interned by the communist authorities, to persecuted and harassed members of their families, against the difficult to count wounded pacified during strikes at workplaces and beaten in the streets of the cities. Finally, it is our duty to about 100 known people, including 9 miners, who died in the first days of the martial law in the Uncle's mine, fighting for its abolition, for the release of the interned anti-communist opposition activists, fighting for solidarity, for their dignity and for all Poles. It should be made clear that this was not a fight against an enemy from the east who was threatened. The bloodiest pacification of martial law was prepared by the communist authorities in Poland with a premeditated intention to strangle the strike with force. Against over 3,000. The miners were directed to disproportionately numerous units of the Civic Militia and the ZOMO, 22 tanks, 44 combat vehicles. Power and intimidation were the only arguments of the communist regime. Following the declaration of martial law, the Holy Father John Paul II clearly supported the Solidarity and on 16 December he argued that the power and seriousness of power was expressed in dialogue rather than violence. However, on the same day it was decided to crush the strike in Uncle's mine. It was decided to shed Polish blood, to give to strike shots with machine guns, resulting, as we know, nine miners were killed and 23 were wounded. Communists headed by General Wojciech Jaruzelski threatened Poles with the entry of Soviet troops into Poland. This lie is still repeated by many politicians and publicists and we oppose this lie. The threat of armed intervention in Poland was no longer valid, and the plan, which was threatened, was abandoned in Moscow. The uprising of Solidarity and the signing of the August 1980 agreements strongly terrified the communist government, whose real intention was to keep the helm in the country at all costs. It was the fear of losing power that was the real reason for declaring martial law. Gen. Jaruzelski's famous speech of 13 December 1981 was not an act in defence of Poland, but it was the announcement of a sentence condemning the Polish freedom and spirit to death. The Polish society and the Polish economy are doomed to the next lost years. But the change of solidarity could no longer be stopped. Only through fear, tanks on the streets, the blood of the murdered and the dramas of thousands of Polish families could the agony of pro-Soviet power extend. Sleep. President Lech Kaczyński wrote about martial law: "Today we are looking again at all the long way that we Poles have travelled. And from this perspective, when we enjoy our own free and law-abiding state, and when a young generation has already entered into adult life, which can't remember December night, the more clearly we see all the evil and great harm that we are closing in the term 'war state'. No one except his perpetrators denies the fact that the effects of this suppression of the freedom break of 'Solidarity' were dramatic for the Polish society. Social energy collapsed, hope for the democratisation of the state and the expansion of its sovereignty was taken away. The spirit of the August agreements has been completely wiped out. This undermining of the principle of social trust was perhaps the only of the most serious blows that the military cabinet gave to the nation in December 1981 - the end of the quote. The truth about martial law is our duty to those whose names we know murdered by the communist regime, but also to those who died during the war. Unexplained circumstances at the hands of unknown perpetrators. Their death is a testimony of the sacrifice that the Polish people suffered at the price of their dream of freedom. The truth is also our duty to thousands of interned people, to break the spirit of solidarity in them, to stop the free change and, above all, the prisoners so that the communist PZPR apparatus can remain in power. Initiators of martial law have not been cleared. And he's still trying to whitewash this criminal act against his own people. Today, there are people who, once associated with the apparatus of communist security, wear the robes of democratic activists and about the state of war, say that at that time there was a full culture and that the interned played volleyball. We also hear attempts to bring 13 December to Sunday without Telerank. No, it wasn't some harmless story from 40 years ago. Nor was it the heroic performance of the PRL General in defence of the alleged aggression of the Soviet Union. History must not be built on lies, so today we do what is our duty in free Poland. By this resolution, we speak the truth about those events and pay due homage to all those who fought heroically for the freedom that we today can enjoy. Especially those who laid their own lives on the altar of freedom of Poland. As a representative of Members of the applicants, Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I participated in the work of the subcommittee, which was leaning on the text of this resolution. I would like to thank all those who have worked on this text very warmly. I would like to express my special thanks to the President of the Committee on Culture and Media, Mr Piotr Babinetz, who has also contributed to the fact that we have worked in a concerted spirit. Thank you very much for being able - and I am very happy about this - on the 40th anniversary of the commemoration of the victims of the martial law, including the victims of the Wujek mine, to actually produce a document that brought us together during the work and thanks to which we worked over political divisions. As a representative of the applicants, I would also like to say that we worked well in the committee and there were no voices that could be described as controversial, but today in the plenary room at second reading such voices appeared. I want to explain to the Member who represents Poland 2050 that miners who strike in war - and in the mine of Wujek, and in the mine of Piast, and in other mines - did not fight for another Poland, but for white and red. And I kindly ask you not to question it and not to add any ideology to it. [[Applause]] Not much, I was very sorry when I listened to the Members of the Civic Coalition. Unfortunately, using lies, replicating fake news is inappropriate. I also find it inappropriate to use this resolution, so much needed, 40 years after the introduction of martial law in Poland, to practice politics and to achieve its private or club political goals. This is something really highly inappropriate. [[You're not the judge.]] I also very much regret that 40 years after the introduction of the martial law, the Commissioner of the Left still glorified the communist regime today. I have the impression that the Member feels proud of this, but I kindly ask you not to link it with the solidarity, because it is really not appropriate. I would like to stress that these were individual situations and they do not in any way reflect the picture and climate of the content of this resolution, which is a resolution that really connects and unites. The truth about martial law is also our duty to the young generation, who does not remember this dramatic night of December, because it grew in free, democratic Poland. Therefore, commemorating the blow given to Poland and Poles is so important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, because I've been called, ad vocem.]] No, I did not mention it by name. [[Yes, you mentioned me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u222	Thank you very much to the applicant's representative. And I would ask the Member to sit down for a moment, because the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jacek World, would like to take the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u223	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, I would like to thank all those who contributed to this compromise project and also thank you for today's discussion. With all the differences between us, I think we're gonna make it through the acclamation. These differences are best demonstrated by the fact that we live in a free country and that the sacrifice of Uncle's miners and others has not been in vain. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u224	Thank you very much. Madam, I would like to address you because we are adopting a resolution today and discussing important events so that you may want to give up this vote so that we can close this debate in seriousness and in peace. [[But seriously and calmly, I'm gonna say it.]] You do not want to hear my suggestion that we should close the discussion on this. [[Since you have not understood my statement, I must correct it.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very sorry that, even though I was making myself clear and simple, Mrs PiS did not understand what I said. My speech was clear. Yes, as a member of the Solidarity Party, I am in favour of celebrating the martial law as much as possible, which unfortunately caused that of those 13 million members of the Solidarity Party there were few left in the martial law. I stayed at war, and later, to the end, to choose President Kwasniewski, when the Solidarity began to get involved in politics. So I am only in favour of the fact that such a special resolution should be the truth and only the truth. You don't have to forge history at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no need to fake the history of martial law. The truth is capable of defending itself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u226	The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty law and the Act on retail tax (prints 1811 and 1824). I ask Mr Adam Gawada to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High Sejm the report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty Act and the Act on Retail Tax, print No 1811. Sejm at its 43rd meeting on 2 December In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he sent the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finance to examine what took place on 8 December this year. The proposed law amends the Excise Tax Act and the Retail Tax Act, the main objective of which is to stop inflation from rising. Given the temporal nature of the proposed amendments, as well as the arguments put forward during the debate on the draft law, three new articles have been added to the amendment, and amendments and additions of a legislative and editorial nature have been made. The project provides for a temporary reduction in the rates of electricity tax and certain motor fuels, i.e. diesel, biocomponents that are essential fuels, motor gasoline, liquefied gas. It is also proposed to introduce exemptions for electricity used in households. These entries are included in the article. 1. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 However, there are regulations relating to the temporary exclusion of sales of fuels from retail tax. The amendment proposed in the excise legislation will reduce excise duty rates to the above mentioned. energy products up to a minimum excise duty, including both the fuel charge and the issue fee. Issues related to excise exemption were also addressed until 31 May 2022 for the sale of electricity to household customers and for reduced excise duties on certain energy products. The detailed scope of the proposed amendments is specified in the draft law, I will not quote it, these sizes are precisely defined there. The cost of introducing the above. The reduction for the budget amounts to about PLN 1.3 billion, PLN 1300 million. This is about excise duty and VAT, of course. The following articles amend the Act on the system of development institutions, as a consequence of which the Council of Ministers, in relation to the effects of COViD-19 or the prohibition referred to in Article. 12a paragraph. 1 of the Law on the Protection of the State Border, may entrust the Polish Development Fund with the implementation of a government programme providing financial support to entrepreneurs, in particular in the forms referred to in Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, or in non-refundable forms. The Polish Development Fund, in turn, may conclude an agreement with voivodships in whose area of jurisdiction the prohibition was introduced, concerning the operation of financial support. Temporary reductions in excise duties on these fuels will provide real assistance in the fight against inflation. It is worth remembering that in recent months we have seen a huge increase in energy prices in European and global markets. On this map, despite record energy prices, in Poland prices are relatively low compared to other countries of the European Union, but even in such a situation the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki proposes favourable solutions addressed to the Polish consumer. The committee's meeting stressed that rising prices of energy raw materials on world markets is the main reason for rising inflation in Poland and other EU countries. The share price of electricity has increased by nearly 40% over the year. It is estimated that the lack of cover solutions would lead to an increase in household electricity charges of up to 10% by 15% . The amendment of the Retail Tax Act as one of the measures to halt inflation increases proposes a temporary exemption from retail sales tax, which should translate into a reduction in fuel prices at petrol stations. The Act also provides for the obligation to include, at the register, clear information on the reduction of excise duty on motor fuels and on the non-compliance with the retail tax on these fuels. The draft provides that a model of this information will be published by the Council of Ministers. In view of the importance of the proposed amendments and the forthcoming peak of the heating season, the planned date of entry into force was set at the date following the date of publication, with the exception of Article. 4 which shall enter into force on 1 January 2022. The draft law is not contrary to European Union law. Nor does the draft law contain provisions to be notified. The Commission has adopted all the articles and the amendments tabled in a positive opinion and calls on the High Sejm to adopt a draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u228	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I am the first to ask Mrs Eve Szymańska, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u229	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law amending the excise duty law and the Act on retail sales tax from print 1811. The aim of the proposed project is to halt the rise in inflation, which is changed by all cases in the discussions of politicians, commentators and media. Our government has proposed to reduce certain taxes on energy carriers consumed by consumers. The bill provides for a temporary reduction of excise duties on certain motor fuels, as has already been mentioned, for diesel, self-fuel biocomponents, motor gasoline, liquefied LPG and electricity, and exemption from excise duty for the sale of electricity to the final customer of electricity in the household. The bill also provides for exemption from taxation between 1 January and 31 May 2022 for the retail sale of motor fuels, petrol, diesel, biocomponents and liquefied gas. The proposed reduction in excise duty on motor fuels should translate into a reduction in fuel prices at petrol stations. These reductions are expected to be: on diesel and biocomponents - about 10 gr per litre or 6 gr depending on the scale of the tax reduction proposed by the government during different periods, i.e. until 31 December 2021 and from 1 January to 31 May 2022, for motor gasoline - 17 gr and 14 gr for similar periods, for liquefied gas - 18 gr per litre. For a few days now, we have been informed that oil prices have fallen significantly in stock exchanges, which gives us hope that in time it will translate into a reduction in fuel prices at petrol stations. And that's what we're happy about, of course. On the other hand, in terms of electricity, its stock market prices have increased by almost 40% over the year, which will also translate into an increase in household prices. It is estimated that energy bills can increase by up to 15%. Therefore, the introduction of exemptions for this group of customers will allow for a reduction in electricity bills. I would add that the introduction of exemptions in the field of electricity for households is in line with EU law. Thank you from this place to our government, especially Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, for this bill and for another anti-inflationary shield on the reduction of the tax on goods and services, from 23% to 8%. High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend that this law be adopted by the High House. Our club will vote in favour of this bill. At the same time, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I wanted to make two additional amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cichoń will now present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u231	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Inflation in November was 7.7% And that's definitely not her last word. I suggest we go down to the ground, because if we looked at this project, we'd see that this solution will make diesel and biocomponents that make up fuel 5 gr. Anybody notice that? I don't know. Motor plants - potentially 11 gr, LPG gas - at 15 gr, and already absolute hit is electricity, because the household will gain 5 PLN, maybe 10 PLN per year during the period of validity of this law. I talked about it when I first read it. The mountain had a mouse. You say it's only part of the shield, that you're throwing cannons, you've already rolled them, or you're about to roll them, but you can't see the effects yet. Just a few weeks ago, I will remind you, you said - and it was said by the Prime Minister, and the President of NBP - that inflation does not threaten Polish and Polish wallets that income, wages increase faster than inflation. This is proof of how isolated you are from reality. Now you're saying that we have to partially compensate for these effects. It is, as I remember the Prime Minister's words, such a necessity. The pace and effects are impressive. If it was your money, your money, it'd be a long time ago. Today we still have a shielding supplement, but the whole thing is actually a fight against the consequences, not the elimination of causes. It is worth recalling here, that we are saying with stubbornness that inflation did not come out of nowhere. A few months ago, in May, if I remember correctly, the President of the NBP accused the government, saying that fiscal policy this year is 1,5% to inflation. The Prime Minister in his revenge made it clear that it was the late reaction of the Monetary Policy Council and that it was the latter responsible for inflation. They were both ignoring the problem. Now they're looking for the guilty: it's either a terrible Union, or a bad USA, Putin, COVID, the opposition, finally Tusk. Inflation is like a proverbial goat - I spoke about it today at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance - which you introduced yourself. She's showing you the horns today. You're actually just rubbing it with a shield. Incidentally, today's Monetary Policy Council decision is also an excellent part of this stroke. When we put a 1.75 interest rate with inflation, the reaction doesn't seem to be sufficient. How did you get that goat in? First of all, a list of shame. That's over 40 taxes. I'm not gonna replace them all. Only in 2021 - sugar tax, monkey tax, retail tax, plastic tax, CIT, new regulations on waste management, water management. All of this generates extra costs and increases in prices. In 2020 - a linear health tax that hangs like the sword of Damocles, a minimum tax, a change of rules in terms of depreciation of property, leasing, rental taxation, the elimination of the tax card, the biggest change in history in terms of tax burden on business people. These aren't all your sins. You have based economic growth on funded consumption, by the way, by debt, you have led to a gigantic, unrecorded drop in the investment rate, and the savings rate is falling. I think they're even starting to shrink their savings. This is really creating conditions, feeding this proverbial goat. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Plus, I repeat with stubbornness, the management of the Treasury's assets. What's going on here, especially in the energy sector, is calling for revenge to heaven. You're filming this inflation, we're dealing with an inflationary spiral. Don't say, like in the case of the COVID, that you want to do something in six months, because the reaction is needed today. But most importantly, in our opinion, stop milking the state and the citizens. Think of the country, the economy, because it's the key to our success. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the bill presented does not solve the problem. It is a temporary help for all of us and there is no doubt that these actions are late, are very careful and in the long run will not solve the inflation problem in Poland. You have to tell yourself clearly how it happened. The Polish government itself started an inflationary fire with its actions over the last 6 years and today tries to put out the same fire. To be fair, I have to say that, of course, we know that external factors also influence this. On the other hand, the issue of rising energy prices, the issue of rising fuel prices, is something that could actually be addressed. This should have been considered much earlier. You wanted to use the COVID-19 and the tragic year 2020. You had the idea to actually turn up the inflation a little bit so that the budget would have the money. You wanted to be able to continue showing how you were giving money to Poles and Poles. I think everyone's already figured out this whole thing got out of hand today. Today we are discussing increases for the budgetary sphere, there is emphasis on wage growth. Unfortunately, by Christmas, inflation may increase and be double digits. This is therefore a serious problem. The Prime Minister and the Government declare that the costs of the anti-inflationary package, which should have been introduced at least 3 and 4 months ago, are about PLN 10 billion. Today we ask why you're cheating us. Not so long ago, because two months ago, you showed an amendment to the budget in this room and said that thanks to a great economic policy, VAT revenues increased by PLN 33 billion. The question is whether these 33 billion more in the budget are due to inflation. Today you are talking about an anti-crisis package, about PLN 10 billion. Maybe we should think about it and expand it. We need to discuss some other comprehensive solutions. In the budget for 2022, you assume that VAT revenues will increase by PLN 20 billion. It is known that the revenues will be much higher due to inflation levels. This is why much greater revenues are expected, revenues of PLN 50 billion. We need action, not billboards. By the way, I don't know who came up with an idiotic idea to hang billboards that say we have one of the lowest fuel prices in Europe. It's a shame to spend money on it. [[Applause]] Really, it's amazing. You're about to say that we have the cheapest electricity in Europe and you're gonna hang billboards. [[Voice from the room:...demand.]] Yeah, that's right. It's in something amazing. President Obajtek declares that the fuel will be 30% since December 20th. I don't know if this bill's gonna be ready by then, but the fuel's probably gonna stop. He knows perfectly well that oil on the market is cheaper and therefore does not do grace, that from 20 December he will reduce the price of fuel by 30 gr. The question is whether we're gonna keep an eye on the energy companies and Orlen companies so they don't use this law to increase their profits again. The Left has a clear view on this matter. Today, the poorest suffer from inflation. We want to approach this comprehensively, which is why we are proposing an amendment to this law. The amendment assumes what we should have done a long time ago, i.e. the reduction of VAT from 2022 to 20%. and reduce it every year by 1% up to 15% . It's fair to everyone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] VAT is paid today by all: Poles, companies, entrepreneurs. Therefore, the reduction of this tax will have a real impact on the reduction of inflation in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u234	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Czesław Siekierski will now speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Increasing inflation is a serious threat to the economy, to consumers, to development. She's still growing. It's approaching 8%. Delayed anti-inflationary measures are more costly, less effective and more difficult to implement. It takes more time. An example of such delay is the lack of action of the National Bank of Poland, which postponed the increase in interest rates. There was no signal for the market that such a thing would happen and certain processes had to be slowed down. As far as the government is concerned, the government is responsible for protective measures that support consumers. This is particularly the case for consumers with relatively low incomes. The government must also use promotional instruments in the economy. The draft law provides, first, for the temporary reduction of excise duty on fuels, electricity and gas, second, for the suspension of the levy or retail tax on fuel. The government has recently introduced this tax. There will be an exemption from the issue fee. The proposed reliefs, as already pointed out by colleagues, are relatively low. The very low yield is for diesel, which is the basic fuel in the economy, transport, construction, industry and agriculture. My previous speakers spoke of the scale of relief. I don't want to go back to that. As far as fuel and energy prices are concerned, the reductions are relatively low. As I said, the proposed changes are protective, not anti-inflationary. To a certain extent, they will operate even pro-inflationaryly. It should be mentioned that tax changes are introduced in parallel with the first January 2022, in fees, in so-called contributions. It's a polish deal. The distribution of its costs and benefits for consumers, for entrepreneurs, for local governments has been discussed a lot. They will particularly lose local governments, entrepreneurs, but also that the yield of the poorest ones is small, because they are not actually talking about health contributions. We know that Polish Load will not only increase production costs in the production process, but also increase administrative, accounting and other costs when it comes to entrepreneurs. The increase in manufacturing costs, mainly fuel costs, energy will translate into an increase in prices for goods and services. The proposed measures in this law are largely offset by these effects, we are not talking about the causes, and often some actions have been carried out previously by this government. Of course, I would like to refer once again to the lack of action on the part, as I said, of the National Bank of Poland, which has an important role, because it is the National Bank of Poland that is responsible for the value of money. The rise in fuel, energy and gas prices will particularly impact on the agricultural situation. There will be a very high increase in production costs. As far as fertilisers are concerned, where the use of gas is extremely high, the price increases are three times higher. The question, then, is what the government will take to improve this difficult income situation in agriculture, which threatens to open production next year, which already has a significant impact on food security issues. What is the VAT on food products? The Minister said that talks are taking place with the Union. At what stage are they? Because it's important to consumers. To conclude, I would like to refer to what I was talking about at first reading, that we will actually come up with a budget that we have not yet adopted. The situation is dynamic, difficult, so we believe that these actions must be more courageous. We encourage the government to do so because I think it will bring positive results in the future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u236	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mr Bosak, who will present the position of the Female Confederation Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The causes of inflation the government sees everywhere, just not in its own politics. The government has even prepared special graphics on which it illustrates that Russia is responsible for inflation, the European Union is responsible, COVID-19 is responsible - just everyone, just not the government itself. So let us remind you, first of all, that it was the PiS government that incorporated Poland into the implementation of the European Green Deal. It was the government of Poland that has done nothing for six years of its governments, maybe 7 to stop the impact of the CO2 emissions trading system that has already exceeded 80 euros per tonne. It was the government of Mateusz Morawiecki since March 2020 that conducted an irrational lockdown policy consisting in the random closure of selected industries. After all, it was this government in subsequent financial shields that printed billions of zlotys, which in the economy could not have resulted in an increase in inflation. At the moment, we hear that this government is gonna have to put out signs at the gas stations telling us that it's the government that makes the fees lower. I'll tell you what else you should add on these tablets. Well, you should add on these tablets that in 2019 you introduced an issue fee - 80 PLN per 1000 l. You should add that the fuel charge for petrol charged per 1000 l, which in 2019 amounted to PLN 133, has now increased to PLN 165. You should add that the fuel charge for diesel, which in 2019 was PLN 306, increased to PLN 338. And you should, above all, have them print and write that taxes that go to the state budget account for more than 50% fuel prices. It should be written there. And not that the government plays the role of Santa Claus and temporarily reduces the fees that it lifts with each year, added to the price of fuel. It's no different, but fortunately on a slightly smaller scale, it's with electricity prices. Why are the solutions proposed by the government temporary? Do we think inflation is a temporary phenomenon that will soon pass away at the end of the winter? No economists predict that. What we can read in analysts' assessments, economists' forecasts, is that these actions that the government has proposed will only lead to the expansion of the inflation spiral that has already taken place and that its summit will be shifted to the middle of 2022. Our comments on the project itself - in a moment I will be making amendments on behalf of the Confederation - relate primarily to the failure of entrepreneurs to take account of these reductions, which will result in inflation shifting through (the bell) the price of goods and services to all other prices. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] Thank you very much, thank you. The Confederation proposes a project called "Tape Fuels'. The elements of this project will be in the amendments that I will now pass on, marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u238	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u239	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Of course, in today's situation of inflation cannot be seen, as I said at the first reading and at the committee meeting, in isolation from the political decisions of the National Bank of Poland, from the avalanche debt of the state, from stimulating GDP only and exclusively through consumption or omissions, among others. energy transformation. Because the galloping prices, ladies and gentlemen, are ahead of the galloping debt. Today it's 1,400 billion PLN. That's a 33 percent increase in public debt over the last two years. Galloping prices preceded permanent weakening of the gold, not only the alternative budgetary reality and the loss of credibility, the loss of the value of our national currency, but also the lack of seriousness and responsibility of President Glapiński. In the end, the galloping prices overcame, of course, the chaos and tax disorder. Because if we raise the transition fee, the price of electricity is rising. If we raise the fuel charge, the price of fuel increases. If you're introducing the commercial tax that we talked about today in committee, food prices, clothing, shoes, fuel are rising. There's no other way to calculate it. There are two things that we question in this bill. One is the time you make these reductions. It's not enough for us. The report that the press is writing about today is the best way to prove how much longer these reductions need to be. According to the latest KPRM report, inflation at unacceptable levels will remain with us even until 2023, with up to 6.5% next year, even taking into account the anti-inflationary shield. That's what we're gonna do to stop the economy. It would be good for the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance to come and share with us the latest analysis of the KPRM in this respect so that we can learn the truth about what awaits us in the next two years. Second thing. I will make an amendment, which I also tabled in the finance committee, so that the suspension of trade tax applies at all levels of goods, because it costs us not only fuel but also clothing, clothing, food. This should also be suspended as regards trade tax. I make amendments on behalf of the Polish 2050 wheel to your marshal. We expect them to be accepted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u240	Thank you. Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a time for questioning... Maybe half a minute? Half a minute. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: But half a minute?]] But the question can be asked. [[Voice from the room: One minute, Marshal!]] [[Voice from the room: I suggest a minute.]] [[Voice from the room: How much? Half a minute?]] Please, as the first Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the cost of introducing an exemption for the budget - excise duty and VAT - is estimated at about PLN 0.1 billion, or PLN 100 million. There is PLN 2.50 for one Polish citizen: Polka, Polaka. You can buy two Kaisers for that. What's the backup? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u242	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the date of 31 May 2022. Does the government promise Poles that after this date inflation will stop ruining their pockets, and global raw material prices and supply cycles will return to their pre-pandemic state, or is it just such a lie and the idea is that Poles will forget about the raises and that the correct raises (the bell) will be paid by them later, after 1 June? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u244	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You want to lower the excise duty on fuel and temporarily exempt it from retail tax, and you yourself introduced this tax with full awareness 11 months ago, knowing that this will increase the price of these fuels. High prices affect everyone today without exception, both consumers and companies. Why Ww. You want to make reductions just for a few months? If you care so much about Poles, you should introduce them permanently. Fix what you've ruined. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u246	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u247	Half a minute is absolutely... Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask you about the proposals to reduce excise duty or the exemption from retail tax. I wanted to ask what would happen if inflation, which is currently galloping, could not be stopped within just five months. What will the government do then? As of today, there are no concrete actions of the government or (the bell) of the National Bank of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u248	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Statistical household pays PLN 173 a year of commercial tax. Two years ago, that tax wasn't there. It was this government that introduced this tax and raised the cost of living. This bill will reduce energy prices by PLN 5 per year. This isn't compensation. Minister, the so-called minister is waiting. Polish Lad. He's gonna make it worse. Does the government therefore consider suspending the Polish Government so as not to make this situation worse (the bell) and not cause even more expensive? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u250	Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Inflation is not just a rise in fuel and energy prices. This is above all a significant increase in food prices, which Poles are already feeling very much. This will be particularly burdensome for them before Christmas. In many homes, these holidays will be sad and very poor. A reduction in excise duty is necessary, but much late. There is a lack of thoughtful, strategic action, not action. What real plan does the government have for a real solution to the problem of galloping inflation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u252	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u253	Highest cost - almost 8%. Today's Monetary Policy Council decision concerns a reduction in the Golden Course. The dollar and the euro cost more, and so high inflation will continue. It's Morawiecki's fault - introducing an additional 40 taxes. Failure to keep the value of the gold is the fault of President Glapiński and we should remember that. There is no help for hospitals (the bell) and for entrepreneurs. Answer that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u254	Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u255	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS equals inflation. First, for six years, you do everything you can to induce inflation, and when it's huge, the largest one in the Union, you start fighting it. How? You're throwing in the money again, otherwise you can't. For you, the country is an ATM. You keep pulling it out of him, and Glapiński and the blondes are pouring in hay. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's you guys... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition. No, I didn't. I had a minute. There's a minute. I didn't say a minute. Please, Marshal, for a minute. You've had half a minute, please leave the podium. No, you don't, half a minute everybody does. But I have a minute, every Member gets a minute. You've made a mistake. The PiS equals inflation. [[Applause]] [[Member Klaudia Jachira develops a banner with the inscription: PiS = inflation]] [[The voice from the hall: Beautiful.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u256	Oh, great. All right, get off the stand now. One more show.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u257	Mr. Marshal! I had a longer speech, but I'm actually just gonna talk to you. This is a real scandal - inflation is one of the most important topics that people are living on right now. [[Applause]] We should really take this issue seriously, and you, instead of promoting and supporting a fair discussion, gave us all 30 seconds. This is not a discussion. It is a question, sir. I don't know if you just care... But you don't ask questions, you just bother. [[But don't interrupt, don't interrupt!]] Ask me a question. You've got time. I was gonna say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the government, through this package that has been presented, will achieve nothing, because this package is not anti-inflationary, it is pro-inflationary. The best anti-inflationary shield is an independent central bank, [[Applause]] which you politicized in such a way that you simply do not perform your constitutional functions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u258	Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u259	Mr. Marshal! Actually, I don't know what I'm supposed to say after you've reduced our speech to 30 seconds. Ask the question, Madame. Ask a question. Ladies and gentlemen! That's no way to talk. This isn't a parliament. We are talking, as our colleague said, on one of the most important topics, namely the anti-inflationary package, about our finances. Poles can't stand these raises anymore. We have the fastest increase in food prices in Europe, and you limit time to 30 seconds for us to talk. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u260	And you didn't ask a question. You wasted half a minute of the High House. [[And you are so kind...]] Please, Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u261	Not long ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki promised to reduce fuel prices by a minimum of 30 gr per litre, saying that we would reduce excise duty to the lowest rates in Europe. What came out of it, you can see here. The most important fuel economy, diesel, agriculture, tourism, transport - everything. He'll lower the price by 4 gr, that's half a hot dog. That's the money. I have a question: Why do you continue to deceive Poles and Poles all the time? Second question to your marshal: Why are you making a farce from Polish parliamentarianism? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u262	Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I really congratulate you on your heroic desire to reduce the sales tax that you introduced 11 months ago, as well as 10 other taxes: commercial, monkey, power, sugar. [[Applause]] What are entrepreneurs supposed to do, how can they not raise the price if you constantly increase their costs and taxes? Moreover, Polish Load, the increase in minimum salary, the additions of cover - these are all factors generating inflation. Do you really think that manufacturers and sellers will lower prices if you are currently introducing these solutions temporarily? Do you really think that if you pump 10 billion PLN into the economy (The Bell), this is a way to fight inflation? You have to lower your spending, lower your taxes - VAT, food and energy - and then you have a real chance to fight it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u264	Mr Adam Gawada, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The articles added to the Act introduce amendments to the Act on the system of development institutions, as a consequence of which the Council of Ministers, in connection with the effects of COVID-19 or the prohibition referred to in the Law on the Protection of the State Border, may entrust the Polish Development Fund with the implementation of a governmental programme providing financial support to entrepreneurs. So, Minister, to what extent does the government envisage providing financial support to entrepreneurs, and does the government also intend to provide such support to firms exposed to the increase in the service of investment loans (the Bell) and development in a non-refundable form? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u266	Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u267	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You want to fight inflation the way a doctor fights for a patient who needs to be operated on so that he gives him painkillers. What you're doing will further increase inflation. The truth is, you've introduced the commercial tax you're now withdrawing, you've introduced the issue fee you're now withdrawing, but the best thing you're doing is reducing your excise duty on electricity. The annual household will receive PLN 7.82 and the power charge you introduced (the bell) from next year is PLN 122. You have a gesture. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u268	And you haven't been able to ask the question either. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition. [[Thanks to you.]] No, it was a statement, not a question. [[Because it's not enough time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u269	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yes, it is worth to tell Poles here: 7 zlotys with pennies you will receive, you will save thanks to zero VAT on electricity. Minister! I wanted to ask you what you're gonna do with the 24 billion zlotys you're getting for selling CO2 allowances. Because you're getting it. Poland sells these rights almost every month or half a month, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And their price is rising. I wanted to ask you what you're spending your money on. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u270	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u271	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question which the government plans to use to ensure that energy companies do not benefit from this law in the short term, because I will remind you that these are companies in which the Treasury has part of the shares, and therefore they operate in the market. The question is: How do you want these companies to really reduce the price of electricity and fuel? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u272	Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u273	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Please respond in writing. First of all, when does the government intend to liquidate the Disciplinary Chamber and restore the judges to rule so that the money from the National Reconstruction Plan will flow to Poland? Secondly, when are you going to end the conflict with the European Union? Thirdly, does the government intend to remove the tax increase from the New Deal? That would be true anti-inflationary measures. The rest of you, what you're doing, is propaganda and appearances. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u274	Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law also provides for the obligation to include at the register office at the premises of the company where the sale of motor fuels is carried out, clear information on the reduction of excise duty on motor fuels and the non-compliance with the retail tax. The draft provides that a model of this information may be published by the Council of Ministers by means of a notice. My question. Really? What's the point of all this awful propaganda? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u276	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Inflation is today the biggest problem in Poland and we have 30 seconds to comment on the debate. No, on the question, sir. Mr. Marshal! There's a parliament here. This is not a PiS and you will not decide what individual Members are to say. And if I am already by the voice, I would like to say that this inflation is the fault of the government and the National Bank of Poland. [[Morawiecki and Glapiński.]] 40 taxes raised, giant fees. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you're not giving up, you're just giving away some of the taxes, the ones that you got from inflation, the VAT receipts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u278	Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd call this project another promise out of the question. The excise cut will only reduce the price of diesel by 6 gr, and even recently the Prime Minister promised 30 gr. However, on the basis of this law, the rates will still increase by the inflation rate, which is galloping inflation, which will not slow down. The reduction of excise duties on fuels will reduce budget revenue by nearly PLN 1327 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is, what areas are you going to move these shortages from, and who are you going to take to cover this huge hole in the budget? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u280	Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u281	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The results of the next plebiscite of the Golden Hundred of Polish Agriculture, organized and published every year for 5 years by the editorial office of the weekly and portal Wprost Biznes were announced yesterday. It is a ranking of 100 leaders in the agri-food industry. Second place in this ranking was taken by Grupa Azota. What does the government do or do to make fertilisers cheaper and accessible to Polish farmers? [[Applause]] Azotes don't have to be the second in a gold hundred, they can be 98, but farmers have to buy fertilizers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u282	Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u283	High Izbo! The inflation is down to 8%, the cost is going crazy, and we can see a propaganda campaign at gas stations, billboarding, printing flyers. But you're the one who introduced dozens of taxes. You're the ones who introduced the fee you're now suspending, which you're selling as a success. These are the Himalayas of hypocrisy. What, then, does the government have a long-term plan to fight the price apart from propaganda? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u284	Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In this law, burdened with numerous shortcomings, there is one good accent, namely after 2 months the government heard the demands of entrepreneurs, also reported by the Civic Coalition, concerning the payment of compensation for enterprises from the Polish-Belarusian border: the abolition of the de minimis limit and the possibility for voivodships to pay outside a strictly defined branch directory. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question to the Minister: When will the entrepreneurs of this tool be able to make real use of it, when can they get their first money? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u286	Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u287	The scale of the threat is extremely high: inflation, risk... We're going into a major crisis. It can be assumed that what has been proposed is preliminary actions that are insufficient. What further action will the government take to counteract in a real way, especially when these conditions come into force, restrictions related to the Polish Ład? Because they (The Bell) do not offer promotional measures, and they also introduce a number of restrictions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u288	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u289	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna ask you again. By introducing the suspension of trade tax into this law, you admit that it is a tax that increases the price. And the question is: Why do you suspend it only with regard to fuels, not with regard to food that also costs more, and is the first human need? Poultry meat - close to 19%, beef, bread - more than 9%, eggs - same, oils - 10% , mineral water - even more than 8%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a lot more expensive food. Why aren't you suspending the commercial tax on her? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u290	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Piotr Patkowski has the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer questions, first of all, I would certainly like to agree with one sentence which came up in this debate and in a series of questions, namely, in Mr Rosati's view. I think we all agree that inflation is a serious problem. Therefore, when we present this package, we are presenting a draft of the government's response, but I also think that with the strong support of the Sejm for this project - also the parliamentary response to this really serious problem. On the other hand, however, I have appealed several times from this speaker, but it will not hurt to repeat it. Of course, political or public debate is governed by its laws, but when we use economic concepts, and the concept of galloping inflation is an economic concept, not a publicist or political one, I would suggest that we stick to economic terminology. You know perfectly well that inflation is 7.7% Galloping inflation It's not. This does not mean, as I have already said, that inflation is not a serious problem for us, it is not a problem to be answered. However, I appeal once again: let us not use the current inflation term galloping inflation, because just according to economic theory and economic rules inflation 7.7% Galloping inflation It's not. On the other hand... [[But she's out of the woods.]] She has moved - Madam, that is your opinion. In our opinion, we are now presenting a package of tax reductions precisely to relieve Poles, who are most affected by inflation, and to stop this inflation. I think that the actions of the National Bank of Poland are going in this direction according to their constitutional principle. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that information on electricity often appears here, of course the reduction of excise duty to the minimum of the EU is only part of this element, and I would point out that at this moment after the entry into force of this bill, the excise duty on electricity will not occur at all. We'll zero it for the households. In addition, this solution will complement the reduction of VAT for electricity up to 5%. We will do this by regulation, but it is worth looking at these solutions complementaryly. There was also a question about the date of completion, because of course these solutions are temporal. The answer to this is simple: some solutions are for 3 months, some for 5 months. We'll be watching very closely. If the economic situation so requires, we will take further action, and for now we have five months to observe how this situation is going to develop. Let me just mention that, according to forecasts, whether it's the European Commission or the International Monetary Fund or the OECD... It was said here that no economists are saying that inflation is going to be decreasing. I read the opinions of the European Union and the International Monetary Fund and there is clear information that, in the case of this inflation, not only will its dynamics fall, but it will simply be smaller. That's what I'd like to draw attention to. Once again, there has been a charge of adding money. Here I would just like to remind you that, according to the current data from the European Commission, we meet the Maastricht criteria for both deficit and public debt. This is very important, I repeat this once again, but let us be aware that when it comes to deficit and EU debt, we really are one of the countries that have the best statistics in the European Union. There have also been questions that may be unrelated to inflation, from Mr Gawada and from Mr Tyszkiewicz, but concerning aid to companies at the border. This has indeed become part of the bill after reading in committee. At the same time, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice now, in this second reading, has tabled another amendment concerning this area, including the possibility of providing assistance also to companies that are not in this catalogue of entities referred to by the draft law or by the law already in force. If these companies felt a drop in turnover related to the border situation and this would indeed be a particularly justified case, then the voivode through the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration could also provide assistance to such companies. This is an amendment tabled now, at second reading by the PiS club. She, when the European Commission comes tomorrow, will also gain the approval of the government. As far as sales tax is concerned, I'm gonna pay attention here. Just for one thing. The aim was to balance the gap between the largest trading networks and smaller shops. On the other hand, we forget one element of this tax, namely that tax is included in the cost of obtaining revenue. Therefore, if a company pays CIT and does not show this CIT at a minimum or even no level, then this retail tax is essentially neutral for such a company, because it is included in the cost of obtaining revenue. It is worth noting that those companies that fairly account for CIT should not notice the retail tax. The rest of the questions, as requested by your parliamentarians, will be answered in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u292	Thank you very much. Now the rapporteur for the committee, Mr Adam Gawada. Does he want to speak? There's no envoy. I therefore close the discussion. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to submit a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws (Prints No 1795 and 1823). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u293	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws, primary printing No 1795. At its 43rd meeting on 2 December 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he referred the above draft law to the Finance Committee for consideration. The Finance Commission has directed the project to the Permanent Sub-Committee to monitor the tax system. At the subcommittee meeting on Tuesday, the draft was examined in detail and a number of amendments were introduced. The Permanent Sub-Committee presented its report on the work of the Committee on Public Finance. On 8 December, the Public Finance Commission adopted the above draft with two further amendments and asked the High House to adopt the draft law annexed to print No 1823. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Just a few more words about the justification of this bill, which it concerns. This proposal amends the excise duty Act of 6 December 2008 concerning the implementation of the provisions of the following Council Directives of the European Union. In principle, the whole project concerns the implementation of EU legislation, which we introduce into the Polish legal order. It is a Council of the European Union Directive 2020/262, which lays down general rules on excise duty, i.e. so-called. a horizontal directive that should be implemented by the end of this year. Another directive that this proposal implements in the Polish legal order is Council Directive 2020/1151 of 29 July 2020, which amends Directive 92/83/EEC on the harmonisation of the structure of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages, i.e. the alcohol directive. The last third Directive is Directive 2019/2235 of the Council of the European Union of 16 December 2019 amending Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax and Directive 2008/118/EC on general rules on excise duty for defence activities within the Union to be implemented by 30 June 2020. As I said, the Committee on Public Finance today has examined the draft in detail and, by presenting the relevant report, calls on the High House to adopt this proposal for a law by the High House. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u294	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. First Mrs Eve Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u295	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of our club, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, on the government draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws, print No. 1795, after work in committee, print No. 1823. The proposed law aims to implement EU law into the Polish legal order and is also related to the fact that the UK has left the European Union. The provisions of the Council of the European Union Directives should be implemented in national law by 31 December 2021, so-called. the horizontal directive and the alcohol directive, and as regards excise duties on defence activities within the Union, by 30 June 2022. The project assumes among others. the following amendments to the excise duty Act: postpone the deadline for the complete electronicisation of records and other documentation until 1 January 2023, clarify the submission of quarterly declarations on exempt goods and with zero rates, postpone the date for the granting of new competences of the Commercial Inspection, which is linked to the changes planned by the European Commission, as well as the conditions for exemption from excise duties for coal products constituting coal inputs, changes in excise duties on fuel oils, coal, coke, natural gas and other fuel fuels. The proposed changes in excise duties also concern the measurement of Plato in beer, the updating of sparkling wine codes, the certification of small independent producers of alcoholic beverages, the clarification of excise exemption of contaminated alcohol used in the manufacture of medicines, and a reduction of 50% excise duty on certain alcoholic beverages. The excise exemption shall also apply to excise goods to be used by the armed forces of a Member State of the European Union under the common security and defence policy. The draft also includes amendments to the Goods and Services Tax Act implementing the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the so-called. fast VAT by adapting national legislation to EU law. In conclusion, I would like to say that the draft law proposed by our government aligns national law with European Union law, clarifies and simplifies it, and contains changes to facilitate the application of the law in this area. Dear Marshal, High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend the adoption of a bill by the High House. Our club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u296	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u297	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project is mainly intended to implement European Union legislation. The provisions contained therein, resulting from this right, will serve, among others. smaller producers who produce alcoholic beverages. We have already talked about these benefits during the first reading of the subcommittee which dealt with this project, so these arguments have been made clear. On the other hand, I wanted to draw attention to a number of issues that are more controversial. I want, among other things. Note that excise duty, which is imposed on fuel oil, coal and coke or natural gas, will be higher, because these rates have to be aligned, adjusted to the euro rate, and the gold has recently been weak enough and has been so weakened by the decisions of the National Bank of Poland that... The decisions that affect the shape or value of this excise duty make it simply higher, that consumers will pay more, and those decisions were implemented by the National Bank of Poland, which carried out the intervention in order to weaken the value of the gold. The truth is that it has contributed precisely to the increase in excise duty, at least on these three main issues. I think it's also worth paying attention to what the government says. We hear many times that you want to make an inflation shield that will protect Poles from the cost. The truth is, you're just pretending to be saviors who want to save people from inflation, and you're behind this record, almost 8% co-responsible inflation, because you've introduced a number of new taxes and charges that were pro-inflationary. All you have to do is talk about the commercial tax, the power charge, the fuel issue fee. Plus, you put new taxes on entrepreneurs. You double-taxed the limited companies, even imposed a rain tax on the so-called. Big real estate and since January you have planned New Deal, which will be a hit on entrepreneurs. And what will entrepreneurs do if they have higher business costs? They will transfer these costs to the prices of the products they produce and the services they provide, and this could result in an even greater increase in prices. Moreover, I wanted to draw attention to your promises to reduce excise duties on electricity. The truth is that such a household, a family that lives in an apartment of 60 m2, will benefit from your proposal to reduce excise duty about PLN 7.80 per year, while the power charge you have introduced will cost the same family PLN 122 next year. You have a gesture. So it has to be admitted that these actions are rather nothing to do with reality, because the fees you have imposed will be even higher. And I wanted to draw attention to one fundamental issue that was raised during the meeting of the subcommittee dealing with this project and today's meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. Namely, it's about the industry that produces beer. According to this proposal, there will be a new tax base. The point is that tax, excise duty will be charged on the whole value of what beer is made of, also on this sugar, which is an addition, which has not been done so far. Turns out the industry's just not ready to do it. Your last decision has resulted in an increase in excise duty on these alcohol products by 10%. And what I said would be an extra charge, an even bigger increase in this excise duty. As calculated, the entire brewing industry will cost about PLN 100 million in addition next year. We realize how important it is to fight alcohol abuse, that's true. But let us give this industry time to implement these rules properly so that these entrepreneurs can prepare for this. The point is that there should be no legislative and organisational chaos again because no one will have time to implement these solutions. If this bill or this project comes out of the Sejm in the coming days, it will go straight to the Senate. So when will he be signed? It will be signed on December 31st and the entrepreneurs will apply it from January 1st? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, I ask and make an amendment so that the date of entry into force of those provisions concerning the industry that produces beer is postponed by one month to 1 February 2022. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u298	Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u299	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Left Club on the draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. The flagship of the draft excise amendment was and is the implementation of Council of Europe Directive 2020/262 laying down general rules on excise duty, replacing the current Directive 2008/118. Of course, we may be wondering the pace of proceding a very extensive 52-page project, but it is up to the pace, not to the quality of the work, we are getting used to it. The proposed changes are also due to the fact that, as of 1 February 2020, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland came from the European Union and thus the territory of the United Kingdom became the territory of a third country. The transitional period shall end on 31 December 2020 in accordance with the agreement on the occurrence. Most frequently, issues related to the long-awaited excise duty reduction for small producers of alcoholic beverages and the application of a rate of 50% were discussed by the subcommittee and the finance committee. in relation to basic rates, e.g. for wines, fermented drinks and intermediate choices produced by small producers. Many of the comments put forward by the industry have been taken into account, which deserves to be appreciated. Time will, of course, show how the implementation of the provisions of the Act will be in practice, but all indications are that it will have a positive economic impact on micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. As a change to a plus, it should also be assumed that, thanks to the provisions of the commentary excise novel, entrepreneurs will finally be able, although, of course, after a number of other conditions have been met, to import excise goods directly in the tax warehouse. The new rules also open up the possibility of trade in excise goods at a distance, which, in view of the dynamic development of this industry, which is caused not only by the pandemic but also by the overall market trend, can be accepted as beneficial. The proposed amendments are also intended to seal the excise trade in also with regard to the requirements of the Law on Sobriety Education. The new regulations also contain rules that standardise the area of excise duty change. This is a change that has been mentioned for a long time, but has not yet been implemented. Taking into account the EUR 4,5826 rate in 2022, in order to maintain the required levels of the Union, it was necessary to change the excise duty rates to the following excise goods: fuel oils and fuel fuel with a density equal to or greater than 890 kg/m3, as well as coal, coke, wet natural gas. All of this will, of course, result in an increase in the prices of the above mentioned. products. The project is also covered by the new competences of the Trade Inspection under the Act of 25 August 2006 on a system for monitoring and controlling the quality of fuels. The change is due to the fact that the European Commission is planning to introduce a new euromarker from 1 January 2023. These amendments also regulate cases of refund of existing excise marks and the validity of those marks on the packages of excise goods. Following the introduction of a new model of excise marks, where the Minister introduces a transitional period for the application of the existing excise marks, this amendment will facilitate operators' conduct of their business and should also be counted as a plus. In view of the above-mentioned issues concerning the legal act in question, the Lewis Club supports the draft law submitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u300	Thank you. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u301	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This draft law adapts Polish legislation to the EU excise duty directives. These directives are mentioned in this publication of the Act. I'm just going to address some of the problems, some of the solutions. An important change is the introduction of intra-EU electronicisation in relation to excise goods being moved with excise duty paid, of course with appropriate monitoring, using the said EMCS system. It is currently being implemented in a traditional way, in a paper way. The bill provides for a shift from 1 January 2022 to 1 January 2023 of the deadline for the complete implementation of the records of other documentation. This will simply enable better preparation. The draft law indicates that the changes will mainly benefit operators fulfilling the definition of small producers of alcoholic beverages. These solutions were called for, among others, for. winemakers or cider producers. These solutions introduce preferences for small producers of alcoholic beverages. According to the data from the last agricultural census in the country, there are about 68 thousand. seed holdings where the area of the orchard is greater than 1 ha. The Ministry of Finance considers that they are potential producers of fermented wine drinks. I wonder what kind of data this opinion was based on. Do you have such interest or may I ask you to indicate the sources of this data? Finally, the draft law also provides for a number of market-driven facilitations for entrepreneurs. These are among others. the possibility of using a single security collectively for the purposes of the activities of an entity with different excise status, as well as the possibility for the transfer of excise goods with the excise duty paid to enable the carrier or freight forwarder, as well as the natural or legal person registered by the competent authorities of the Member State which sends excise goods to the country from the territory of the Member State, to lodge the excise security instead of the operator. These are quite technical terms, but they make it very easy for the whole operation and for exporters, for importers they translate into important solutions, to move forward. Third, there's a long-distance sale at your place. Also, a seller sending products from another Member State will be able to settle excise duties directly in his own country. At present, such sales can only be made through a tax representative designated in the territory of the country. Finally, for small producers, the obvious choice is the direct distribution of wine and cider at the place of its production. I mentioned this because small winemakers, cider producers around the world are trying to sell as much as possible of their production directly on their farm. This is favored by very fashionable wine tourism, thanks to which potential buyers come to the place where wine is produced. That's sales. not only wine but also a wider service, so there are additional sources of income for small producers. These solutions meet the expectations, as I said, of small producers and have already largely been applied in the Member States of the old Union. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u302	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u303	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the government draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws after the presentation of the report of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law presented by the government concerns the implementation of European law into the Polish legal system. This is a series of directives. They were very detailed at first reading, also during the committee meeting and, as I said at first reading, we have no doubt that these provisions should be adopted. On the other hand, on this occasion we can see how the National Bank of Poland should be independent of the government's actions, why it should focus on ensuring the stability of money in time and why someone once set inflation targets, which should be achieved in the course of the activities of the National Bank of Poland and the Monetary Policy Council. When it happens differently, when the bank works closely with the government and de facto works for the government, then things like the ones we're dealing with today, i.e. high inflation and galloping cost. It is worth recalling how this happened. After all, in 2020, at the end of this year, the National Bank of Poland did everything to weaken the gold. The target was obvious. The idea was to get the best possible valuation of the foreign reserves. The profit of the activities of the National Bank of Poland is transferred in 90% to the budget and it was to save the budgetary situation, i.e. to help the government de facto. As a result, today's bill will hit people. The increase in excise duty, the equalisation of rates to the level resulting from European law, taking into account the low exchange rate, means that the rates expressed in zlotys must increase. So what we are considering in Parliament today is the result of the harmful activity of the President of Glapiński and the National Bank of Poland. To remind you, almost a year ago, the exchange rate for the euro was PLN 4.46. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the end of November it was PLN 4.70. Of course, we will vote in favour of the bill, but we appeal to the government to move away from the National Bank of Poland, because this symbiosis harms Poland and Poles and I call for an expensive price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u304	Thank you, sir. Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. As the first Member... [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] [[A voice from the room: What a grace.]] [[The voice from the room: Something like that.]] Now it's less reported. There's been a lot of them before, and we're way behind schedule, which is why I've been cutting it short. [[Voice from the hall: 1 minute is too much for me now.]] Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In print no. 1795 we have a government bill amending the excise duty law and some other laws. The proposal aims at implementing the three Directives, which are identified by the Council of the European Union, of 2019, 2020 and 2019. The rules are to enter into force at the end of this year. One question. Why did the legislative process take so long? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u306	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u307	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of the excise duty reductions developed for the period until 31 May 2022, is the government planning any regulation on the marketing of these goods, especially in the border area? Second question. Are there plans for regulations related to the fuelling of vehicles registered in neighbouring countries? Third question to the Minister. Dear Minister, what happened after May 30, 2022? Thank you very much. If I could get a written answer to these questions, I would be very obliged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u308	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you why the government doesn't want to take into account the beer producers' proposal, which they propose to postpone the entry into force of the Act for just one month and give businesses the opportunity to prepare themselves for a change in the method of calculating excise duties. During this time, excise duty for beer producers increases from two different titles and it complicates the settlements very much - that's first. Secondly, I would like to stress that the deadline for implementing this directive is 2030. Given the legislative procedure, it is very unlikely that this project will enter into force on 1 January, so it is incomprehensible to treat entrepreneurs and not to take into account their legitimate interests. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u310	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the euro rate is very important for setting minimum rates, as it refers directly to them. My question: Why did the government make this decision now? Couldn't it have waited a few months? The second question concerns what has already been raised here, i.e. the de facto shift by one month of the deadline for implementing certain solutions concerning the brewing industry. This is really a very important industry, where a lot of people work, important for many regions. In my region too, it would be very harmful to reduce production. Therefore, does the government still want to work against the brewing industry, but will it go against its expectations (The Bell) and agree to extend the vacathio legis for just a month? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u312	Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We all agree that this is a law that should be implemented quickly, namely the implementation of European Union law. There's no particular controversy here except for one thing. From the left to the right, everyone's talking about you leaving too little time for the brewing industry to comply with these new rules. There is a serious risk that this law can finally be signed. If it is signed by the President this year, it will enter into force on the last day of December. It is really impossible for entrepreneurs to face such uncertainty once again. For two years we have been dealing with this very poor legislative practice, when you bring the draft laws at the last moment to the Sejm, you make such a schedule that you have to carry out three readings within 48 hours, and then you try to implement it literally overnight. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I appeal to you, Minister, to take a look at the amendment we have tabled, and yet extend this period of vacathio legis by one month until the end of January. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u314	Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You are implementing EU law - of course this is necessary and we support it as much as possible. On the other hand, I wanted to ask you where the financial calculations are, how will this burden companies with regard to excise duties. Previously, we also talked about a reduction in excise duty on fuel, and I wanted to point out what I didn't have time to say last time I spoke, that this reduction would only cover three months. I ask what will happen after 3 months with residents, with food prices, because economists have clearly shown that (the bell) inflation at the end of 2023, not 2022, will be about the same as now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u316	Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the Chamber: Madam, this is not the law.]] [[Because I couldn't tell you before, I said now that I'm going back to the last one.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u317	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think you should start taking business seriously. What you are doing today is the best example and an explanation of why Poland falls so low in the Doing Business ranking. Last year we were in the 40th position, for 2 years we fell 13 places down. It is worth noting, then, that you should listen a little more to the voice of entrepreneurs, especially those who spoke today about their problems and doubts, who represent the beer industry. It is only a matter of a month to extend the entry into force of these provisions. After all, this will prevent chaos, mistakes that can be made and simply make life easier. Last week, you approved a bill that raises 10%. The alcohol excise, and today you're picking up that excise duty from the second source. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask that you listen to the beer industry's voice and extend the entry into force of the law for a month. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u318	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Inflation is and will be one of the most important problems of Poles. I would like to point out that any increase in tax will unfortunately have an impact on this inflation. Therefore, I am quite anxious to see what will happen after January 1 when the new order comes into force. This is what we are discussing and probably from all the votes it follows that the National Bank of Poland must be an independent institution. The National Bank of Poland must conduct appropriate monetary policy and must take care of the value of the Polish zloty. The lack of action or failure to act unfortunately has a negative impact. Since the marshal asks questions, I have a question for the Minister and I ask for a written reply. What actions (the bell) is the government going to take to reduce inflation in addition to those we are talking about today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u320	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u321	We are debating today the issue of the implementation of the excise Directive and I have the following question. Minister, the debate on the excise reductions you intend to introduce and the support of entrepreneurs is over. I have a question - I'm not going to say how much, we can set the rate later - how much inflation is going to be at the end of December next year. I am convinced that it will continue to be very high. Action has begun in the European Union to reduce VAT on food to zero. I would like to ask how the directive will be implemented, whether it will be super-express. [[Voice from the room: Wrong bill.]] And I ask you kindly to answer in writing what support they will receive in relation to excise duties, among others. hospitals, because such a cover was not mentioned in any of the documents, but also the entrepreneurs, so that there would still be a shift of manufacturing costs (the bell) on buyers, customers. These are the most important questions. Please respond in writing. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Wrong bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u322	Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government argues that thanks to the new regulations the state will support small business and Polish products. It is difficult to talk about a gesture of goodwill, because it really adapts the legislation to the EU excise duty directives and it was an impulse to act. Wine, drinking honey and regional vodka producers will benefit from the solutions contained in the procedated law. However, I have a question about the brewing industry, which has already been repeated here. During the work on the project, the social party called for a delay of one month in the entry into force of the beer tax rule. What's the chance for the producers of this liquor to have? a little more time to adapt to the updated regulations? Minister, I don't think it's that hard to go for the bell of business. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u324	Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u325	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Minister. What will be the effects of the changes, these solutions introduced on the market, what will the benefits be and what will this change? That's one thing. Secondly, what benefits can raw materials producers expect and what processors? What will this have to do with the budget? What is the result of the lack of coordination of changes caused by different laws? It's all about the beer stuff. This was mentioned by Mrs Czernow, Mr Rosati. Finally, how will this affect our competition in these markets at European Community level? Will this improve our competitiveness (The Bell) or will it bring certain benefits? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u326	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Jan Sarnowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u327	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to stress that the time taken to implement the legislative process was sufficient for the whole market to be able to read the content of the legislation being implemented. Since 12 May, the project has been included in the list of government work and since the beginning of June a public consultation on the implemented solutions has been ongoing. Importantly, their content was not a surprise for the brewing industry or other excise goods producers. Why? First of all, because in matters relating to beer, we are not dealing with changes in regulations to those which are completely unknown to entrepreneurs, but with changes aimed at returning to the state before the judgment of the TSUE, i.e. the rules that functioned on the Polish market from 1993 to 2018, i.e. for 25 years. It was rather a surprise to the industry that the TSUE's judgment had changed these rules. Following the amendment introduced by the Directive, Poland reacted very quickly after enabling it to return to the previous rules, and in the first draft implementing the amendments to the Directives it decided to take advantage of the possibility of amending the rules. The amendments to the Directive were announced in mid-2020 and were implemented at the request of Poland. So that since mid-2020 the brewing industry knew that we would make such changes. Since 12 May and since the beginning of June, the content of the legislation has been presented during the public consultation. It is therefore very difficult to find a justification for this one additional month to adapt to the proposed changes. In accordance with your request, we will answer the other questions in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u328	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Piotr Polak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm gonna say a few words about what the club said because there's been some kind of contradiction here. Well, ladies and gentlemen, with all responsibility, I can say that especially in the work of the subcommittee that I conducted, this bill did not raise any controversy. Of course, this was the topic that you spoke about and referred to: the brewing industry. Yes, the subject was analysed and discussed, but in the voting process the State unanimously expressed its support for this draft law, both in the work of the subcommittee and in the work of the committee. And this statement from the last of the representatives during the club speeches, that the act is the result of earlier bad government actions in the field of the financial policy of the state, see: the financial policy of the National Bank of Poland... No, it's not. You know, it has also been stressed in the speeches of some Members who speak that this law is the result of the need to implement EU legislation, which we must implement by the end of this year - of course not all, because there is also a later date. It mobilises us and motivates us to introduce this law into the Polish legal order. It's a summary of the club appearances. In addition, I would like to thank all those who have been involved in the work on this bill, on this bill: the Minister, all the workers, especially those who have participated in the subcommittee's deliberations for these few hours, all the ladies and gentlemen who have taken part in the subcommittee's work in substance, I stress this once again, for a concerted work, for the unanimity expressed in the vote on this draft law. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u330	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 8 December this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to add yourself to the list? I can't see. I consider the list of Members who have been made to make statements to this effect to be closed. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left Club, has the first vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me read the appeal of the oak trees and oak trees to the Minister of Climate and Environment of Anna Moscow. As residents of Dąbrowa Górnicza, we appeal to the Minister for assistance in eliminating the threat to our city announced for December to exclude the drainage belonging to ZGH Bolesław and the liquidated Olkusz-Pomeranian mine. According to the study prepared by Prof. Mariusz Czopa from the Academy of Mining and Steel in Krakow, the consequence of the switch-off of the pumps in the mine will be pollution of the capture of drinking water in Ujajsec, where it is obtained by the Dąbrów waterworks belonging to the city. In the light of the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of 2020, which places Poland among the poorest countries in the European Union, we cannot stand by and watch this waste. Nor is our consent to an ecological disaster, which will stop dewatering for the natural and socially valuable rivers: Boats, Baba, White, and consequently White Przemcha. In view of the above, we call on the Minister to develop solutions that will protect both the water intake in Dąbrowa Górnicza and the river mentioned above. Company of Friends of Dąbrowa Górnicza. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u332	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The staff of medical diagnostic laboratories working with biological material of patients with COVID-19 and the staff of laboratories collecting biological material from patients infected and suspected of being infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus are outraged by the fact that the Minister of Health has deprived them of the right to additional money provision, so-called. the COVID additive. Polish laboratory diagnies were among the first to start a fight against the COVID-19 epidemic and participate in this fight together with doctors, paramedics and nurses. As early as March 2020, additional COVID labs were created, where diaphragms and medical analysts started working with a huge amount of biological material from patients. The number of laboratory tests during each epidemic wave was and is enormous; it is now incomparably higher than before the pandemic. Contact with the infectious material of a patient with COVID-19 in each laboratory takes several hours, and during on-call time even several hours a day, so it is certainly not an accidental contact. At sites exposed to direct contact with biological material, there is a much greater likelihood than the average chance of infection. Therefore, it is incomprehensible and logical that the staff of medical diagnostic laboratories are removed. COVID allowances for salaries. The profession of laboratory diagnostics is a profession of the same strategic importance for fighting pandemics as the profession of doctor, paramedic or nurse. It is thanks to the sacrificial work of medical lab staff that you can make a proper diagnosis and start treatment of infected patients, as well as monitor the progress of treatment. In view of the adverse decisions of the Ministry of Health a few days ago, I gave the Minister of Health an interpellation and a question about the possibility of repairing their effects, about the possibility of granting COVID allowances for remuneration. I look forward to an urgent response, but I also hope that the Ministry will examine this matter on its own initiative, the issues at issue and the most common ones in the world will restore these allowances. By the way, despite the incomprehensible obstruction by the Ministry, I count on a similar self-reflexion to restore COVID allowances to nurses working with COVID patients in the Chamber of Admissions of the Provincial Observatory and Infectious Hospital in Bydgoszcz, who are still waiting for a positive examination by the Minister of my interpellation and the restoration of the COVID allowances due to them. If the Minister or the Minister's advisors do not know the work of nurses in the hospital's emergency room and the work of diagnostics during the pandemic, I would very much like to invite you to Bydgoszcz immediately after this session of the Sejm, where the nurses in the emergency and diagnity chamber will show how their work is in practice, and the Minister will have a chance to explain to them directly in the eyes why he took away COVID's allowances. The problem I am signalling concerns nurses and laboratory diagnostics throughout Poland. I ask and call for such actions on the example of the city of Bydgoszcz and the Provincial Observatory-Infective Hospital in Bydgoszcz, because I am a vacation worker of this hospital and I know very well the specifics of the work in this hospital, the specifics of the work of nurses and laboratory diagnostics. Thank you very much. Minister, I'm hoping to hear back from you about my call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u334	Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On December 5th, we celebrated International Volunteer's Day. This celebration, celebrated annually, was established by the United Nations General Assembly on 17 December 1985. The aim of the event is to acknowledge the work of volunteers worldwide, to thank them for their efforts, time, skills for economic and social development, for their free work for the other man. As defined, volunteers are voluntary workers. According to the Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering, the volunteer is one who voluntarily, consciously and without remuneration engages in work for people, NGOs, as well as various institutions operating in various social areas. These institutions are not allowed to use volunteer work in their business activity, which is expressly prohibited by the Act. Volunteer activities therefore include supporting peace initiatives, humanitarian and medical assistance, human rights monitoring and public benefit organisations. 2001 was the International Year of Volunteering, which contributed to the activation of activities in this field. Volunteering in Poland has been developing since 1990 in numerous NGOs since this year. From the nationwide research of the Klon/Jawor Association 2008, it appears that about 11.3%, or nearly 4 million adults of Poles, are or are sometimes volunteers. I thank all the volunteers for their actions, for the effort, the kind help they bring to others. I wish you a lot of health, strength, kindness from people, good luck with your actions. Thank you so much for being here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u336	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Baszko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I stand before you today as a member of the Podlaskie Voivodeship, who was and is close to uniform services at the most difficult moments at the border. I want it to sound like it's here at the Seym. I thank the officers of the Border Guard, the police, the fire department, the soldiers and the customs officers for standing up for our borders to the glory of their homeland, leaving their children, their families in their homes. I would like to thank the volunteer fire department, the village hostels and the people of Podlasie for all the actions supporting the uniforms. This shows how we, the people of Podlasie, can unite in difficult times and show our gratitude. The border service is very difficult, unpredictable and dangerous. All the more reason for all uniforms to pay their highest attention, and no one who is not in their place has the right to question it. I appeal to all these pseudo-triots sitting in the privacy of their own warm apartments for restraint in the precision of judgments towards all uniformed services, and eager and courageous to tell the truth to soldiers today I invite you to meet me at the border. I thank all uniform formations for what they do, for making the people of Podlasie feel safe. I thank the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda, who was in Kuźnica Białostocka today, in the Sokól district. I live 12 km from Kuźnica. I would also like to thank all the commanders of the facilities headed by Colonel. Zbigniew Awdziej. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u338	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u339	Thank you very much, Marshal. These days are the anniversary of the 20th anniversary of the Society of Friends of the Honour. 20 years of activity of the company is a period of very intense activities, beautiful achievements and appreciation of this work by inhabitants of the municipality of Porąbka. The Association Statute states that it aims to organise and support all intentions and work related to the protection and development of the municipality of Porzebka in cultural and economic terms, has the right to speak on public matters, to carry out statutory activities for the benefit of the general public and groups in a particular situation of life, and may also allocate funds to charitable activities. Especially noteworthy is the fact that during the 20 years of their activity the company cared in an unusual way about the souvenirs of history, which are located in the municipality of Porąbka. The Society is famous for this activity. This is extremely important, from the point of view not only of the municipality itself, but also of the general community, activity. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to offer my heartfelt congratulations on the anniversary of the 20th anniversary of the Society of Friends of the Honour. Let these congratulations be accepted by the authorities, but also by all members of the association. I commend your work for protecting the cultural heritage and economic development of the municipality Porąbka. Society-led social activities are a role model and, which is worth emphasising, are highly appreciated by the local community. Thank you for these 20 years of activities for the people of the Hawk. To the Management Board and to all members of the Association, I wish for further successful projects and the general satisfaction of their implementation. I wish the inhabitants of the municipality Porąbka health, every prosperity and many satisfaction in their personal and professional life.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u340	Thank you. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There is no Member. Mr Tomasz Zieliński, Law and Justice. There's no envoy, either. Mr Sławomir Skwarek. [[I'm here, Marshal.]] I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Firefighters are the social group that has enjoyed the greatest trust in Polish society for years. Both professional officers and volunteer firefighters guard our lives, health, and property daily. Recently, the support of soldiers and other services that guard our eastern border has been included in their activities, especially those of volunteers. A good example is the friends of the Stanin O.R., who, in cooperation with the parish, organized a collection of gifts for the army. With them as a volunteer, I reached headquarters 21 directly. Podhale Rifle Brigades. Soldiers do not lack food, but good words, sweets and other products to diversify their diets ever enough. It is also worth highlighting the role of local authorities, which, when working together on a daily basis, know best what support services they need. In this way, he cooperates with the army and services, among others. Municipality of Kodeń. Following the agreement with the brigade command, Stanin undertook to organize a group of firefighters from the district of Archivsk to go to work at the border. The departure was also attended by: Adamów's TSO, Jedlank's TSO, Okręjska Wola Okręjska Okręjska Ostrów Ostrów, Wojciechków Ostrów Ostrów Ostrów Ostrów. The membership is five hosts: one bridesmaid and 27 bridesmaids, out of these three bridesmaids on a daily basis is officers of the District Command of the State Fire Department in Łukow. The real pleasure that day was working with the friends of the Świdnik Big Świdnik and soldiers 16. A Battalion of Sappers from Low and 22. The Carpathian Mountain Infantry Battalion. These sub-divisions are made up of 21. The Podhale Rifle Brigades are an essential part of the 18. Mechanized Division - Iron Division. The division is supposed to defend us, our eastern border, but also the border of the European Union, the eastern flank of NATO, so as not to say: Christian civilization. I know the military and the service are looking for backup. No army can win without cooperation with the people. This action should continue. We need to support local governments and voluntary firefighters from the border area. We have developed a model of cooperation and cooperation. I call for greater involvement, cooperation from the State Forests and coordination of actions by the National Fire Department units. The bridesmaids at work and service want to thank you for the act on voluntary firefighters. 437 Members voted in favour with only one abstention. This one voice is the voice of a descendant in the straight line of Henryk Sienkiewicz, our Nobel Prize winner born in Wola Okrrzejska. Not for penance, but for the desire and need of the heart of the firefighter of this Wola Okrrzejska, they reported an access to the return trip. However, it is not only about participating in the campaign of support for uniform services #MuremZaPolish Uniform, it is also our duty to our mother's country - Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u342	Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the night of 6th and 7th December, four-year-old Eileen from Iraq disappeared in the border area on the Polish side. A dozen degrees of frost. The girl and her parents and a group of adults crossed the Polish border with the hope of safe shelter in Europe. Despite poor health, Eileen's parents were transported to Belarus. The guards were aware of how inhuman conditions migrants are forced to veget on the Belarusian side. Still, the girl's family was not helped. Facts: 15 degrees of frost, lack of help, exposure of migrants and migrants to violence in Belarus. All of this poses a direct threat to health and life. The girl was last seen on the Polish side in the vicinity of the New Court. According to reports from the Foundation for the Conservation and Border Group, as a result of the actions of officers of the Polish Border Guard, a small child was separated from the parents, resulting in the disappearance of the girl and the risk of her life. I demand that Polish services take immediate search actions, find Eileen and take responsibility for those who have made exports. I demand clarification and reliable information on the actions taken. The Activists of the Rescue Foundation and the Border Group have set off to search for Eileen. Forests in the area where the girl was lost were combing through groups of volunteers from Sokóka and Białystok. Activists who live in the zone and can operate there have checked the border area. They could bring 100 people in a few hours, but by decision of the Polish government none of them can enter the area. Volunteers who searched in this area believe that the service wasn't running There's no search there. I quote: They saw three soldiers, two helicopters appeared, but there were no extensive searches in this area. We know from our sources that missing persons were not sent there - says one of the activists. Polish border, night, 15 degrees of frost, stray parents with a 4-year-old are looking for shelter. Soon the right-wing politicians will be sitting at the Christmas table. And they will sing in a family band in warm homes of carols. Sing, ladies and gentlemen, there was no place for you and the words: And today, why so many tears, moans, torments among men? Because there is no place for you in many human souls. Eileen, where are you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u344	Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We started working on the budget for next year, 2022. Since 2015, i.e. since I am a Member, I have been pursuing the most important investments for the inhabitants of Pomerania. One of the priorities is the construction of the ring road of Shtum in the trail of national road 55. The Sztum perimeter was on the government list of 100 bypasses, but the deadline for its implementation is very distant, because the tender for the project and construction is only announced in the 3rd quarter of 2024. I mean, after the election. Then the drivers will drive this ring road at the earliest in the next six to seven years. I therefore submit an amendment to the budget for 2022 - it is about PLN 10 million to speed up work on the project to build the ring road as soon as possible. The General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways presented three options for this route. The inhabitants can now comment on the course of the route. Once the option has been selected, it will be possible to begin the development of STEŚ, buy the land and begin the design of the route. Thanks to the 10 million amendment, which I am making, it would be possible to accelerate the construction of the ring road for the whole 2 years. This amendment on the money to speed up the implementation of the Sztum ring road has already been examined at the meeting of the finance committee. It is a pity that the Pomerania PS Members did not support it. That's how they promised to take care of the locals. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u346	Mrs Anna Pieczarka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning, I would like to thank you very warmly for the support given to rural housewives' circles through the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, through which creative work involving women can achieve their statutory objectives. In society, they play a much more serious role than can be imagined. Circles of rural hostels operating in most municipalities in Poland not only develop women's entrepreneurship, but also cultivate the tradition of culture, folklore and rural life, integrate the local community and take on new and ambitious challenges. The rural hostels' circles today are dynamic organizations that perform many social functions. Often they are the main drivers of life in their environments. The first circles of rural hostels, I will remind you, were already created at the end of the 19th century, and it was usually around them that life focused on the villages. Today very often the leaders of these organizations are excellently educated, often young women who take innovative action in connection with tradition. They cultivate traditions of the nation, remind about folk costumes, make efforts to include food products on the list of regional products and participate in regional festivals, in Małopolska it is mainly the Małopolska Festival of Flavor. They glorify patriotic events with their presence, e.g. on the occasion of the anniversary of the Constitution on 3 May, the Battle of Warsaw on 15 August or the National Independence Day on 11 November. They engage in charitable activities for the needy and participate in the so-called. high culture, organizing trips to cinemas, museums or theatres. Often at the invitation of the President of the Republic of Poland and the first lady host at the Presidential Palace. Every day they help each other, support each other, and learn makeup and makeup, organize fitness meetings, circles of interests for children and young people, and even engage in dance, singing, poetry or cabaret activities. Ladies are involved in everyday agricultural life, but also in parish life. And to each other, they're just friends. The development of rural hostess circles took place after Poland entered the European Union, and their renaissance - thanks to their recognition by the current government. Women just want to, and they don't have to belong to local organizations. And this generosity is, I believe, their greatest strength. In Tarnów land, which I represent, there are over 320 circles of country housewives. There are a lot of people working hard for local communities. As examples to follow, almost all could be mentioned, but I will allow myself to mention only some of the greatest achievements. In the Tarnów district itself it is among others. KGW Stróże z gminy Zakliczyn, KGW Tatara. z Siedliszowice w gminy Żabno, KGW Rzuchowa z Rzuchowa w gminy Plesna, KGW It is also worth mentioning the KGW modern housewife from Tymowa in the district of Brest, the KGW Rajbrot in the district of Brest in the municipality Lipnica Murowa or the KGW Gręboszów near Dąbrowa Tarnowska. To conclude, thank you once again for the support that rural housewives can count on. I would like to add that their funds are spent very carefully and rationally by them, and their members are often driven by passion and desire for even greater action, and they also spend their own resources. I ask that, as far as possible, support for them gradually increase. And on the occasion of the Christmas Day (the bell) I wish you, on your tables, to host the dishes of the housewives from the circles of the country housewives and to make your eyes rejoice... Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u348	There's no envoy? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u349	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In my speech today, I would like to introduce to the High House an extraordinary ceremony which took place in the municipality of Toszek in the Silesian Voivodeship, namely the unveiling of a commemorative plaque on the occasion of the jubilee of the third Silesian Uprising, a plaque provided by the President of the Republic of Poland, Andrzej Duda. I had an extraordinary opportunity together with Mayor Toszk, Mr Grzegorz Kupczyk, to unveil a commemorative plaque, which was placed on one of the most interesting monuments of the Silesian Voivodeship, a castle in Toszk. This extraordinary event is an expression of homage to the Silesian insurgents, which Mr Grzegorz Kaminski prepared, one can say the main organizer of the event, the teacher, as well as the historian of passion and passion, was enriched, among others. by students from Gliwice and the district of Gliwice. After the plaque was solemnly unveiled, flowers were laid and patriotic works played by the trumpeter. The next point of the ceremony was to organize a historical session at which the plastic-historical competition was solemnly summarized by Korfanty's car, in which students from primary schools from Gliwice County and Gliwice took part. In addition to the presented exhibition of best works, participants could also admire other attributes and props and historical-college materials referring to the Silesian uprisings and important figures forming our independent state. The lectures presented by the representative of the museum in Gliwice, the representative of the Institute of National Remembrance in Katowice and the priest telling about the history, fate of insurgents and inhabitants of these areas were extremely interesting among children and young people. I thank the organisers very much for inviting them to participate in this important and elevated event, which builds the right patriotic basis, especially among the youngest. Thank you and congratulations to the mayor of the municipality of Toszek Grzegorz Kupczyk. However, I would like to give special thanks and congratulations to Mr Grzegorz Kaminski, who is extremely involved in preparing and supporting such worthy initiatives. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u350	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, on December 8, 2021, a special event took place at the feast of the Immaculate Conception of the Virgin Mary. By decision of Fr. bp. Jan Kopc, bishop of Gliwice, church in Lublin-Steblov St. Teresa Benedicty from the Cross - Edith Stein was raised to the dignity of the sanctuary. This is the first sanctuary in Poland. St. Teresa Benedicty from the Cross - Edith Stein, virgins and martyrs, patron saint of Europe and Lublin. The decree stating this fact was read during the solemn service held in the parish church, where the 30th anniversary of the consecration of the temple was also celebrated. The present excellent condition and beautiful decoration of the church is due to the long-term parish priest Fr. The prelate Anthony the Hare, and his work continues with Fr. Rafał Grunert. Edith Stein was born on 12 October 1891 in Wrocław in a Jewish family strongly attached to her religious traditions. She spent many happy childhoods at home of her grandparents from her mother, the Courant family, who lived in Lublin. This multicultural town, situated in Upper Silesia, surrounded by forests, saw it as a unique place, which probably shaped its subsequent approach to life. The path of future sacred education was very rich. Women rarely went to college in those days. Edith was breaking those barriers. In 1911, she studied at the Silesian University of Fryderyk Wilhelm in Wrocław. She was the only woman in her hometown who signed up for the philosophy department. In 1913, she moved to Göttingen, a well-known university town where she studied phenomenology under the eye of philosopher Edmund Husserl, whom she called the philosopher of our time. Edith Stein has come a difficult and long way of spiritual transformation. Her whole life has been a tireless search for the truth. As she said: The search for the truth was my only prayer. It turned out that her great intellectual abilities and the spiritual way she followed led her to meet her in Christ's life. This crucial moment occurred in August 1921 after she read the Book of Life. Theresa of Avila. She decided to switch to Christianity. Catholic baptism and first communion were adopted in January 1922. She was named Teresa. From that moment on, Edith Stein wanted to join the Carmelite Order. It was realized on 14 October 1933 when it crossed the threshold of the monastery of the Carmelite Sisters in Cologne. After 6 months of the postulate, she took the nun's name Teresa Benedict from the Cross. In the monastery she continued her scientific work and finished her extensive study of Possibility and Act. After redrafting, she gave the title "To be finished and to be eternal." In 1938, she made her eternal vows. The '30s. The 20th century is a dark night of German Hitlerism. The monastery in Cologne came on August 2, 1940 and was arrested by the Gestapo. She and her sister Rose went to transition camps and then to Auschwitz-Birkenau. They died there in the gas chamber most likely on 9 August 1942. There is a presumption that the train bringing Sister Stein to Auschwitz, Wroclawian Edith and Lylichanka Róża, passed through Lublin. That's how the buckle of their lives got tied up. That's why Lublin chose Edith Stein as his patron. That is why here, the first parish church of St. St. Theresa Benedicty from the Cross. It is in Lublin under the patronage of the local government that operates in the building of Courants, the grandparents of Edith, the museum of her name. It is also in Lublin that for 30 years the association has been operating under the constant leadership of Mr.Sylwin Bechcicki promoting the character of the saint and her beloved town of childhood memories. It should be added that the patron saint of the school run by the Catholic Association of Teachers is also St. Edith Stein. Well, come on in. to visit Lublin to see, touch and visit places associated with St. Edith Stein, and in the newly established sanctuary experience the spiritual sacred heritage. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u352	Thank you. Mr Maciej Kopiec, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Bumar-Łabędy S.A. Mechanical Plant is in a critical financial situation. In July 2019 the company signed one contract amounting to PLN 1750 million concerning the modernisation of electrical systems and the painting of tanks. It is so disturbing that Bumar-Łabędy plants are capable of equiping tanks with modern Polish production devices such as reactive armor, fire control systems and cameras. As a result, the company's technological potential has not been exploited and the company itself has difficulties in profitability. In addition, it should be noted that the combat value of Polish tanks has not been raised. This is not the only controversial situation concerning the company. While Elżbieta Wawrzynkiewicz was running the plant, a contract was signed for the modification of three T-72 tanks. The second side of the agreement was also managed by Elżbieta Wawrzynkiewicz Military Automotive Works SA in Poznań. According to information obtained from the employees of the Bumar-Łabędy plant by means of a journalistic investigation, the agreement can be assessed as containing a number of unfavourable records from the perspective of the Gliwice company, and workers who questioned these records were threatened with dismissals. The next step towards the company's financial disaster was to sign a contract for the translation of the technical documentation of the Leopard tank. The price of the translation contained in the contract seems almost absurd and amounts to PLN 1390 per page of the translated document. In addition, the media report that, in line with the new strategy, at the end of 2020, acceptance of civil contracts was suspended at the plant, which allowed the production capacity of departments covering the forge and foundry to be maintained through the production of parts for steel or railway purposes. An undertaking without financial resources to ensure that business continuity is not in a position to invest in R &amp; D. The jobs currently occupied by people with valuable, rare and extremely necessary competences and experienced in the arms industry, which is one of the key and strategic sectors of the economy, are also at risk. These people may lose their jobs or their extremely valuable skills instead of supporting the industry you need can serve the private sector. Given the events described, the purchase of American M1A2 Abrams is equally worrying from the perspective of the Polish arms industry. Operation in the army of three types of tanks is an impractical phenomenon, increasing the level of costs and extremely rare. Such a strategy can result in forced search for operational savings, which always end in a threat to soldiers using equipment. In view of the above, I would like to appeal to the Minister of State Assets of Mr Jack Sasin and the Minister of National Defence Mr Mariusz Błaszczak for urgent action to implement the repair programme in Bumar-Łabędy SA, while the company can still be rescued. I call for Bumaru to qualify for the planned Armed Forces Support Fund in order to protect the jobs of highly qualified professionals and engineers employed there and Polish technologies manufactured by them. I also call for an examination and clarification of the reports on. controversial actions by Mrs.Elżbieta Wawrzyniec, both concerning the conclusion of a possible unfavourable agreement with WZM SA, and talking about mobbing against employees who dared to question the adverse effects on the company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u354	Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u355	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Lubużanie, and especially inhabitants of Bytnica commune, Krosno district and employees of Bytnica Nadleśnictwo! On the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the Bytnic Fortress, I came to you last week with a pale dawn to rejoice with you on your 25th flight. In directing to you the words of thanks and congratulations on the occasion of the 25th anniversary, I would also like to rejoice in all that has happened to me, because it is thanks to your care and care that this piece of our common homeland is beautiful and charming. If you are listening to my delight in the land of Lubuskie, then you must be thinking: you know, the inbred son of the land of Lubus, a local patriot, so praises her so much. I would like to tell you that I am not only motivated by local patriotism. Of course I am in love with this land, but I have a similar passion for other regions of Poland: to my beloved Roztocz, to Bieszczady, to my favourite Łódź. Poland in all its splendor is beautiful. I glorify her beauty and delight in it. I'm going back to the 25th anniversary of the alder. I would like to address Dr. Piotr German and his team of employees with congratulations on this holiday, but also thank you for your concern for our mother's land, here you express our homeland. I realize that being a forester, a man of the forest, is a challenge, but you also have to have certain qualities: being someone who is particularly sensitive and spiritual and at the same time rational and pragmatic. Your spirituality is somewhat due to the resonation of the beauty of the nature surrounding you, when every day you set out for the rounds of your forest troops and constantly experience their beauty in the new robe of the seasons, the seasons of the day, the dynamics of life pulsating around you. I know the environment of Polish foresters and I recognize in you also the great love of the homeland, living and tangible patriotism, remaining not only in the sphere of declarations, but also in the sphere of your daily care, cultivation, healing. You are doing forest work, which must be undertaken either salt or rain, and your sensitivity to the lively world - fauna and flora - and rationalism - the knowledge and treatments that you give to your mother the earth - is precisely this dimension of patriotism. When you walk through the rudders and shelters of a wonderful natural paradise, sometimes you meet a pack of wolves, or when you run a forest duct, you can see the angle of the eye flying herons or hear a clangor of cranes. I used to stand under an oak dome with seven eagles sitting on it. That's the land of Lubuskie. That is your domain, the foresters of the natives. Thank you very much for your concern and sensitivity and I invite you to at least peeking at the deer roar next autumn on the benevolent meadows. I invite you also, all Poles, because it is worth it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u356	Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u357	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On 2 December, the relics of St. Andrzej Boboli to the Seym and the Senate. The relics handed over Fr. Waldemar Borzyszkowski - curator of the sanctuary of St. Andrzej Boboli in Warsaw and Fr. Józef Niżnik - parish priest of the sanctuary of St. Andrzej Boboli in Strachocin. The relics were introduced to the chapel in the building of the Sejm. Mother Mary's Godparents of the Church. Fr. Józef Niżnik said: "Praying to St. Andrzej, I realized thanks to him that he was the main patron of the country. This dignity was bestowed on him by God himself and commissioned him to take care of the Polish nation. The mystic of Fulla Horak St. Andrzej, on 3 May 1938, asked if he would be a patron of Poland, answered: I am already a patron. St. Andrzej Bobola to Fr. Józef Niżnik said on May 16, 1987: "Begin worshipping me. Earlier, Andrew Bobola appeared to him for four years, and as a priest he thought he needed prayer aid until the moment came when he said: I am St. Andrzej Bobola, start worshiping me in Strachocin. And since the sanctuary was established there, where in a special way people ask favors from God through intercession of St. Andrzej, he stopped showing himself. Fr. Nizhnik continues: but I felt his closeness and felt like a tool in his hand, helping to understand the reality in which we live, the present one too. That is why I see in today's threat a gift, the idea being that the nation should turn to him for help and learn the truth about his effective intercession. He was involved in helping people during the plague in his life and after his death. Between 1625 and 1629 he helped people in Vilnius, without regard to the possibility of getting infected. Tradition is also attributed to him by intercession in the case of the rescue of Pińska and its surroundings from the plague in the years 1709 and 1710. It can save us today, but you have to believe it and pray to it. He is a special saint and patron of the nation. Those who know his life story know that in difficult times he reminded himself of himself, revealing himself after his death. Thanks a lot. Andrzej realized that his main patronage over his homeland is rooted in God's decision and is not contrary to the patronage of Mary Queen of Poland, St. Wojciech or St. Stanisława," said the priest. Therefore, we should focus on using this time without prejudice and unnecessary competition to bring the truth about St. Andrew. Today he speaks to us as he once said in the apparition to mystic Fulla Horak: I will help you. People aren't hot enough, and they're not looking at me right now. I can be very helpful in overcoming major disasters, I can bring relief from suffering. Tell people they're threatened by terrible things for neglecting the affairs of their inner life. You can always ask me, and I'll listen to you. St. Andrzej Bobola is given to us by God to intercede for us in heaven in difficult matters of our homeland. There's a reason St. John Paul II on 16 May 2002 declared him patron of Poland. Also today, through his intercession, many spiritual and physical healings have been made, and even cases of resurrection have occurred in the past. St. Andrzej Bobola, pray for us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u358	Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Each round anniversary, like the one that reminds us that 40 years ago, martial law was announced to suffocate "Solidarity," urges us to reflect more deeply on what was going on, but also on the present state of Polish hearts. This dramatic time, as it is described today, was a heartless act of violence of the people's power against their own people. We had to be trampled again, wounded, humiliated, tried to break, had to shut the mouth of truly Polish poets, singers, artists, so that they would not take the crowds of hearts on the street, where the song and an equal step led to change, to the desired freedom. Tanks, cruelty, clubs, whistling bullets, bruised backs of the beaten, crying women, fear of children and the death of innocent people - this is the harvest of that time. This meant another difficult Christmas in our history, without joyful caroling, without hope, without freedom. Everything's gone? We asked ourselves. Isn't the dawn coming? The internment camps are gonna be overcrowded? They're not gonna open the gates in prison? At a time like this, it always helps the song, lets you again believe that, quote, the white eagle will expand its wings once more, and it will rip the loops off its feet ready to fly. End of quote. And those who broke their wings start dreaming again of free Poland, like fathers who left us their songs and a warm command: they must never give up. You have to watch for the sound of the golden corner to be ready. They also began to sing their own songs in solidarity, because it was their story, it was rewritten with blood, painful wounds and scars that remain forever. It is also important to remember those days, events, experiences, the suffering of the humiliated nation and soullessness, the incomprehensible cruelty of the authorities and the disgrace of betrayal. It is also important whether those days have taught us something, whether the walls that were about to fall will rise again and whether on two sides of the walls it will be: they, and that is us, and our attitude towards our homeland... Who and for whom wants to open the door of our country? Solidars in their hymn sang, I quote: and if someone of our Polish house ignites, then each of us must be ready, because it is better that we stand and die than we have, kneeling on our knees to live. Those who dreamed of free Poland - in every period of history - knew that free Polish borders Polish soldiers must guard and maintain faith with what they gave blood for it. Carry their banners high and remember that singing. Until Poland lives in us, until it dies. End of quote. He's not gonna die. I deeply believe that, because I survived that time 40 years ago as the one whose communist authority does not trust, who is deprived of his work for an excess of honor, which he scolds like all activists of the Solidarity. Today's lies poured upon the heads of the faithful patriotic homeland are to plunge us into oblivion the heroics of the Solidarity and corruption of the Red Communist activists. Today, the left wants a decisive vote. Will she be able to suppress the spirit of the nation? Our eagle wings, though broken so many times, still play, still Polish songs know. I quote: And these wings, like the banners of an independent old faith, still have a glow. Though they have fallen, they have been incinerated, they have not yet lost strength, they are, as they were before, yet the wings of the former glory can lift us up. And they will lift, together, to carry their homeland towards the future - intelligently, in their own way, in Polish. And those who are disturbed by our soldiers on the eastern border will be reminded of the words of Henryk Sienkiewicz, author of the Trilogy. I quote: I would give up all my talent if I could wear a Polish soldier's uniform. The world's stormers may be losing nations and destroying books, but they will never suppress the words of our fathers, reminding their children that they had a homeland. End of quote. We still have it, and the star of Poland hasn't extinguished. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u360	Member of Claudia Jachir, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u361	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the most important point today, the point on galloping inflation, was 30 seconds to say, I would like to stress that the PiS equals inflation. First, for six years, you do everything you can to induce inflation, and when inflation is already huge, the largest in Europe, you start fighting it. How? You're throwing in the money again, otherwise you can't, because your country is an ATM for you. You keep pulling it out of him, and Glapiński and the blondes are pouring in hay. You are the cause of inflation, and as long as you rule, the nation will become poorer and poorer. As long as your crazy ideology is more important than economics, no shield will help. But what do you know about it? Everyone's up, and the soup in the Sejm is still three zlotys. [[You can't eat it.]] Remember: The PiS equals inflation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u362	Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to draw attention to the extremely difficult situation of farmers in Lublin, but not only what increases agricultural unions, in this case the Lublin Agricultural Chamber. This difficult situation concerns farmers who did not receive payment for the milk sold from the entities subject to bankruptcy proceedings in the years 2018 and 2020. Aid of a de minimis nature in agriculture shall be granted to an agricultural producer who has not received payment for the milk sold at least once for the period 2018 to 2020, from the operator to whom the milk has been sold, in connection with the issuing of an order declaring bankruptcy against that operator. According to Art. 51 of the Act of 28 February 2003 - Insolvency law, the bankruptcy order is issued by the court on the basis of an application for bankruptcy. In accordance with the rules in force, aid shall be paid only to agricultural producers who have not received payment for milk sold to entities for which the competent court has issued an order declaring bankruptcy. Together with the Management Board of the Lublin Agricultural Chamber, I draw attention to the fact that some applications for bankruptcy are compulsoryly rejected by the court. The refusal by the court of an application for bankruptcy closes the agricultural producer's path to apply for financial aid for unpaid milk which it has provided to specific operators in the years 2018 to 2020. In view of the above, both myself and the Management Board of the Lublin Agricultural Chamber, we believe that the decision to declare the entity bankrupt cannot be one of the most important criteria when paying financial assistance to agricultural producers who have not received payment for the milk sold. Together with the Management Board of the Lublin Agricultural Chamber, I request that the catalogue of available aid be extended to include those agricultural producers who have not received payment for milk - and thus for their work - sold to entities for which due to poor financial condition in accordance with Article. 13 of the Act of 28 February 2003 - Insolvency Law, the court mandatoryly rejected the application for bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen! Farmers cannot bear double the penalty: firstly, because they have not been paid for their work, i.e. for the milk sold, secondly, because of the heartless rules that do not take account of such situations. That's why I'm asking you to extend this directory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u364	That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u365	Statement on the Chaplain of the National Army Fr. Józef Stank, Rede on the 105th anniversary of his birth. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! December 6th isn't just Santas. On that day 105 years ago Fr. Józef Stanek, Rudy. He was a chaplain of the Kryska Group of the National Army during the Warsaw Uprising, as well as a martyr who died during World War II. During the uprising, Fr. Joseph Stanek was hanged by the Germans on his own stole. Beneath the gallows, he blessed the congregation. The attitude of a priest who could evacuate to the other side of the Vistula deserves great recognition, but gave his place in the pontoon to another person. Fr. Józef Stanek is a blessed Catholic Church. Hello and the glory of his memory!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u366	Last week, the Sejm adopted a law on voluntary firefighters. It assumes inter alia. a pension allowance of PLN 200 per month for firefighters who for at least 25 years (males) or 20 years (females) participated in activities and actions, implementation of a volunteer firefighter's card, better legal protection of their friends and compensation for firefighters and their families. Volunteer firefighters are often first at the scene of accidents or fires. TSOs are an organisation capable of responding to various types of threats such as floods. Engagement in this ministry is admirable and often involves a heavy psychological and physical burden. The willingness to save another man's life with his own exposure is at the highest degree of nobility, and the fireman's service is inextricably linked to the willingness to make such great sacrifices. I am pleased that my legislative initiative from last term is being implemented. President Andrzej Duda also spoke about the need for changes in this area during his speeches last year. I am proud that my request from my previous term of office will be met.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u367	The only cathedral in Piotrkow. Walking the most popular piotrkowski pedestrian street, ul. Juliusz Słowacki, one cannot fail to notice a certain building about quite exotic architecture. Located on the street and surrounded on one side by an old cemetery the church of St. All Saints, being the center of a vibrant Orthodox parish. Why in the city in the very centre of Poland church? Well, in Piotrków, near many other nations, there were Greeks who, at the end of the 18th century, built their temple in the attic of one of the houses at present's Czarniecki Square. The Greek parish functioned until 1839 when it was incorporated into the Russian Orthodox Church. After the November Uprising, more and more Russians came to Piotrków. So it was decided that a temple should be built from a real event. The temple was to be built in an area purchased from the order of drunkards for 5,000. Rubles. The built temple turned out to be too small for the growing Russian community, which is why after the uprising in 1869 the governor of the Piotrków church was extended to its present form. The church has a rich iconostas. The icons were made in St. Petersburg. A dozen beautiful polychromes are placed on the walls. The outline of the temple on the plan of the Latin cross has been changed. In 1870 the church was ordained again. After 1914, the Russian community mostly left the city. The temple and the parish remained. The parish is very vibrant. Among the people of Piotrkow there are still a small percentage of Orthodox believers whose families have lived in our city for many years. For several years now, the Orthodox community has been developing dynamically thanks to Ukrainian citizens coming to work. In 2007 the church was officially raised to the rank of cathedral. She's one of the most beautiful temples in town.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-08-sejm-43-4.u368	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. on 9 December 2021, by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 20]]
